ParlaMint-DK_20150507100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews Christian Langballe (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 169 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the granting of conditional nationality). The motion for a resolution will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. Member of the Folketing Per Clausen (EL) and others have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary resolution on the access of municipalities to the establishment of solar installations. B 108). I should like to know whether anyone wants to include this proposal. That does not seem to be the case, and since it is not, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100100	The case listed as No. 11 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100117	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. In this connection, I have received a message from Doris Jakobsen, Siumut, that she does not want to be a co-sponsor of the proposal for adoption No. V 47), but in agreement with the proposal for adoption No. V 49. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 47 of [now] Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Claus Hjort Frederiksen (V), Helle Løvgreen Mølvig (RV), Villum Christensen (LA), Per Stig Møller (KF) and Edmund Joensen (SP), and we shall proceed to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 83 (V, S, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 21 (DF and EL), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 47 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 48 by Mr Søren Espersen (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 49 by Johan Lund Olsen (IA), Annette Vilhelmsen (SF), Finn Sørensen (EL) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100258	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. Motions for resolutions V 51 by Karen Ellemann (V), Julie Skovsby (S), Helge Vagn Jacobsen (RV), Trine Mach (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Thyra Frank (LA) and Behnke Behnke (KF) will be put to the vote first. The vote will end. In favour of voting 90 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), against 13 (DF), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 51 adopted. Subsequently, the proposal for adoption number V 50 by Karina Adsbøl (DF) has lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100406	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendments. I shall see if anyone wishes to speak. That is not the case. That concludes the debate on the amendments and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100446	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 by the Minister for Education and Research (Sofie Carsten Nielsen) as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100500	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100507	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 105 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100537	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100604	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 88 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), against voting 14 (DF and 1 LA (by mistake)), abstention 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will be sent to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100640	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100702	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of voting 59 (V, DF, EL, LA and KF), against voting 45 (S, RV and SF), abstention 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will be sent to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100821	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? This does not seem to be the case and we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100853	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 54 (S, RV, SF and EL), [no votes for or against 0.] The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507100931	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101000	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101027	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101102	This item has been asked to be removed from the agenda. Are there any comments? That has now been removed from today's agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101130	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101145	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101204	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101219	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-2, elected by a majority of the committee minus the Enhedslisten, on Amendment No 1. 3 or on Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 4 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 4 by the Committee on the They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 8 (EL), against 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 6, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. in favour of 8 (EL), against 95 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 8-10, tabled by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9-11, adopted by the Committee, or on Amendment No. 9-11, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 12, elected by a majority of the Committee minus the Enhedslisten? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 8 (EL), against 97 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 14, tabled by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15-17, elected by a majority of the committee minus Enhedslisten? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101509	The debate is open. We're gonna need a little more quiet. The first one on the platform is the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101539	The Home Guard is a voluntary military organization that stems from the resistance movement. The Home Guard was thus established in the years after World War II with the primary purpose of participating as part of the military defense in solving the tasks of the army, the Navy and the Air Force. This also means that since 1948 it has been provided for in the National Guard Act that members of the National Guard may retain weapons in the home in accordance with regulations. Developments have made it possible for the Home Guard today to support society's overall preparedness for a wide range of tasks: both alerted and unpredicted tasks, and typically without weapons. The terrorist incidents of 14 and 15 February 2015 were appalling and, unfortunately, a weapon from the Home Guard was used that had been stolen at a home robbery in 2013. It is deeply tragic and we must do everything we can to avoid similar situations. Following the events in Copenhagen, the Home Guard leadership decided, on the one hand, to strengthen the security of the Home Guard's weapons and, on the other hand, to launch an investigation into how the security of weapons can be improved more permanently. I think we can all agree that this was a right and necessary decision. In this context, the National Guard police are involved in the Home Guard investigation, and the Home Guard leadership's investigation continues, and it is therefore not possible today to say a final word about how the Home Guard management will improve the safety of the Home Guard's weapons storage in the future. However, I look forward to the Home Guard leadership presenting in the near future a solution that increases the security of the Home Guard's weapons. Against this background, I believe that we should await the outcome of the work being carried out by the Home Guard and that the proposal from the Enhedslisten is rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101753	There's one question. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101755	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. It is a good thing that something is finally happening in order to tighten up security on top of the terrible terrorist attack here in Copenhagen, but I must also say that I am surprised that nothing has happened in the past. It could be read in BT that within the last three years there have been nine cases of forced entry into private homes where Home Guard weapons have been stolen. Now something's happening. In my best opinion, it is inadequate and, unfortunately, only temporary. What I would like to hear from the Minister is actually: why should these weapons not just be removed immediately? Why not give the highest priority to the safety of the Danes and then take action when we have seen that there are time and again problems in handling these weapons in private homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101847	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101848	Overall, I think it is important to say that we have a Home Guard that performs a number of important tasks for Danish society, and they do well. We have some dedicated and committed people who spend much of their spare time doing a volunteer job for the benefit of all of us. When we look at arms storage, a number of steps have been taken in recent years to strengthen security around it. I think it is natural on top of the events in Copenhagen that we have seen from the Home Guard's management whether there are further steps to be taken. Some interim measures have therefore been introduced and concrete proposals will be made on how to increase safety in the future in a more permanent solution. I am confident that the cooperation between the Home Guard and the police and also the Defence Intelligence Service will lead to a strengthened security around the weapons for the benefit of the whole of Denmark and, of course, also for the benefit of the Home Guard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101956	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507101957	Thank you. Well, there is no doubt that the police home-guards, for example, who were on the street in connection with the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, made an important effort, and they must be very thankful for that, but they did it precisely unarmed. They made it unarmed, while their automatic rifles were at home as an obvious target for criminals, as we have seen has been the case time and again over the last few years. This isn't the first time you've had these problems. Over the years, there have been many problems with the National Guard's weapons. That is why I wonder why we should not take action. Why not make a decision? What is the reason for the Minister's doubt that it would improve the safety of Danes if we got these weapons out of private homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102039	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102040	Well, there's going to be action. Firstly, the Home Guard has introduced additional security measures following the events in Copenhagen, and right now the Home Guard is working with the police and the Defence Intelligence Service to look at how to further strengthen security, so that we can have a well-functioning Home Guard to carry out the tasks they are being given, both in those cases where you need weapons and in those cases where it does not require weapons. So instead of being negative about the steps that are now being taken, the Enhedslisten should back up and say: it is good that on the one hand we can have a well-functioning homeguard and, on the other hand, we also tighten up security further. That is exactly the purpose of the measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102132	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102134	I heard Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen praises the efforts made without the use of weapons in that particular situation, so there is no problem with that. When 100 percent. The task of the National Guard is done without the use of weapons, at least in peacetime, so it is interesting to ask what function these weapons have, in addition to the fact that it may give some status to some people to have a weapon at home and show their enthusiasm for the Home Guard. But what real function do they have, and what problems will there be in keeping them centrally? In what situations would that be a problem, at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102215	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102216	A very large number of members of the National Guard do not have weapons at home, but the National Guard must be able to perform a variety of tasks. This is everything from traffic regulation in connection with major events to being sent out into the world. Therefore, it is not the case that one can simply say that the Home Guard alone must be able to carry out tasks without the use of weapons. They must be able to do so, but the Home Guard is built on both the ability to work in situations where you are unarmed and the fact that there may also be situations where it is reasonable that you have been trained in using weapons, because it may also be part of what needs to be done by the Home Guard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102307	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102308	It's very unclear. The Minister now mentions a number of different tasks. At least when it comes to traffic regulation, you don't need weapons. It would then look quite strange to do so, and what would be the function? If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you are going to go out into the world, you must at least have booked your flight in advance. This means that you can get to the central point, pick up the weapons you need to carry abroad, and thus do your job if that is what you have to do. So I would like to ask: For what tasks do the weapons need to be in the home? Also on a shooting range, you can hand over the weapons when they need to be used, and involve them again when people are done with their exercises. I do not understand at all the idea that they should be in a private home, with the great risk involved. Try to give just one example, sir. Minister. At least this isn't an argument for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102357	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102358	Just for the sake of good order, I would like to mention that I did not just say that these were all the tasks that the National Guard had to perform, where there was a need for weapons to be carried out. I said that there are tasks, such as: traffic regulation, which by its very nature is not armed. However, I mentioned as an example that we are also sending homeguards to solve international tasks. What is at stake here is that it is people who, in their spare time, carry out a great task of society for the benefit of all of us, and that is to set up the Home Guard in a way that allows us both to take good care of the weapons and at the same time also to enable all of the volunteers to train in a sensible and appropriate way. In some cases it may make sense that there are weapons in the home; in other cases they are stored centrally. What is the main message today is that the Home Guard is currently looking at how to strengthen the security of weapons. This is done in cooperation with the police, it is done in cooperation with the Defence Intelligence Service, and I await the statement that comes from the Home Guard and the actions that you see before you. That is why I also propose that the Enhedslisten take it easy right now and that we say: We have some talented Home Guards who want to do a good job for Denmark, and you are currently looking at how it can be done even more safely than it has been done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102530	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Nonbo, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102544	I fully agree with the Minister for Defence's words of praise about the Home Guard, about the history and what he said here, so I will go one step further and get to the heart of the matter. The point is that Enhedslisten wants to shut down the Home Guard, just as Enhedslisten has wanted to shut down the entire defense and police. Part of their strategy is, of course, that everyone should be deprived of their weapons. This resolution is completely out of proportion, and it is quite clear. If I am to seize the Enhedslisten in a truth, it is, of course, that there are more than 4,000 Home Guards who have weapons at home, and although a stolen weapon is of course a stolen weapon too much, it is, fortunately, a few of the weapons that come into the wrong hands. When these people get into the wrong hands, it's not because of a break-in, it's because of a real robbery. So the thing about writing that they're stolen at a robbery is wrong, because they're robbed at a robbery where the penalty is 10 years old. Unfortunately, we also had more than 200 weapons robbed from the Antvorskov Kaser, and I am surprised that we have not received a resolution from the Enhedslisten that we should also deprive the defence of all that is called weapons, because that is what we really want. This is just a step on the way. This proposal is completely out of proportion. We can also turn it around and say that, unfortunately, we also had a break-in in arms stores where a great many weapons have been stolen. So in that light, it's a good thing they're scattered to people who look after their weapons. It is the case that the National Guard is part of the Danish defence. In peacetime, they have many good peaceful tasks. In times of war, they can and must be mobilised. Therefore, it is nice that they are both weapon-trained and have easy access to weapons. That's why we're quite safe with the National Guard. We are confident that they will keep their weapons as they do. We can, of course, completely reject this resolution from the Enhedslisten, which is just a step in the direction they want. It is true that every weapon is dangerous, and if we were to abolish all weapons throughout the world and possibly put flowers in the race, it would be a peaceful world. But it's so naive, so naive, because there are both knives and many other things. The Left strongly rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102823	There is one brief comment. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102828	Thank you. Now, as you know, attacks are the best defence, not least when there are no arguments, and frankly, I do not think I heard a single argument from the rapporteur of the Left that it is so urgent that the Home Guard should have weapons in private homes. It is, in fact, the case that we look at reality, that the stolen weapon used in the Copenhagen terrorist attack is not a unique case. As you could read in BT in April, there are, in fact, nine weapons that have been stolen from private homes. In several cases, there has been a great deal of sloppyness, and I have to say that the argument that the barracks' weapons stores are poorly guarded is an argument for better guarding weapons stores in barracks, not an argument for having more weapons in private homes. We are standing here after a terrible terrorist attack in Copenhagen, where a National Guard weapon has been used to kill people, so I would like to hear from the Left: is it not time to act? Why not act on this? Why not take the terrorist threat seriously and take action against the Home Guard's weapons in private homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507102939	What I was trying to say and what I mean is that every weapon is dangerous and every terrorist will get a weapon. If it's not a National Guard weapon, it could be a hunting rifle, it could be anything else. Unfortunately, that is what we are up against. It can be chemicals, it can be dynamite from legal stone bursts etc. So the problem with terrorists is that they get the weapons they unfortunately need, and I still believe that a stolen weapon is a stolen weapon too much, but, on the other hand, I also believe that they are in reasonably safe hands with the Home Guard, and that is why I used the other comparisons, such as weapons depots that are being stolen from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103028	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103031	There is no doubt that weapons are always dangerous, but now we are dealing with automatic rifles capable of shooting hundreds of shots per second, and I do not think that the rapporteur of the Left will stand here and claim that a shotgun could have done the same terrible things that we saw happen in Copenhagen in February. So what I would like to hear from the Left is: is it really the case that we are standing here shortly after a terrorist attack, and then the Left is saying that nothing needs to be done in this area to ensure the safety of the Danes better? Is that really the position of the Left? And is it honestly taking the terrorist threat seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103112	Yes, it certainly is, and as I mentioned, there are other options. There are chemicals, there are real bombs, there are hand grenades etc. So in that light, it could have been a much worse situation, but of course it needs to be taken seriously, and that is why we need to be investigated and we need to have a good intelligence service. That is why we need to use other means, such as PET having the people they need. After all, we saw that PET prevented the major terrorist act inside Kongens Nytorv at Jyllands-Posten, so there are many possibilities for investigation, and unfortunately there are many weapons that are much worse than this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103158	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103159	I haven't yet understood what those weapons are going to do in private homes. Can the rapporteur not give me an argument that they should be in a private home? The minister couldn't. He didn't have a single argument for it. It was almost that because it was good Home Guard people who wanted to do a good job, they were allowed to have their weapons at home as a prize. That is not an argument when there is a great risk of security. Then you have to have them together so you can take better care of them. The more scattered they are, the harder it is to look after them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103233	I can make the argument, but I guess there's nothing I can do about it. Christian Juhl doesn't understand. What I can tell you is that we can get into situations where we need to mobilise, where things have to go quickly, and that is why it is good to have guns nearby. It is also good, as I said before, because unfortunately we see that there has been a break-in in large arms stores. So I have to admit, I personally would rather see the guns scattered, so there's a weapon somewhere at a time when you take good care of them. The fact that, unfortunately, the flickers that have happened are only regrettable. Especially in this situation, you have to think again that that weapon isn't stolen, it's robbed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103317	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103319	Oh. What was that argument I couldn't understand? I didn't hear any arguments. There's not one argument for that. In what situation is it necessary to get a weapon so quickly that one cannot go down to the central warehouse where such a thing might be stored? What's the situation? We don't live in 1940 when war was waged by the Germans rolling across the border, as we see in these historical films these days, we live in 2015. In what situation is it necessary to have weapons at home in the closet? I don't understand. I do not understand why the fact that there are many other ways of killing people means that you can then be loose with weapons and just have them out in 4,000 different homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103411	Well, I keep saying that when the weapons are scattered, they cannot be stolen together, as unfortunately has happened sometimes. Even if we live in 2015 it's such a pussy expression... then things can happen in 2015 that we haven't foreseen, and it can make that quickly needed weapons. Then we have the situation that then we have them. We do not have that if we first have to pick them up centrally. There are many things we have not been able to foresee that have happened anyway. So I'm actually comfortable with the guns staying out with the Home Guard soldiers, and we have to say there's only one disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103451	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103500	I am sure that we can all clearly remember Saturday 14 February, when Denmark was hit by a terrible terrorist attack. Unfortunately, two innocent people were killed. We have therefore all been very concerned, including us here at Christiansborg, that we can also learn from the terrible event that took place on 14 February in the future, and we will look into how we can do things differently in the future. The handling and storage of Home Guard weapons has filled a lot in the debate, and on the socialist side we are very pleased that the Home Guard is taking this task very seriously. Immediately after the events in Copenhagen, the Home Guard Management team, in cooperation with relevant authorities, including the National Police Department, decided to launch an investigation into how the security of the storage of weapons at home can be improved. The Home Guard also initiated a control of weapons storage. As a temporary security measure, the Home Guard decided at the same time to collect all the weapons locks and keep them in central storage places. At the same time, it is important to point out that ammunition may not be stored at the private address but at depots around the country and that the weapons must be stored in secured weapons cabinets. When the Home Guard investigation is over, we will discuss it in the conciliation circle, and in this respect I very much hope that we will be able to reach broad political agreement on a permanent solution for the storage of Home Guard weapons. I therefore believe that it is a bit premature if we are now going to decide to remove the Home Guard weapons from our homes before this study is presented. That is why it is important that we go carefully and carefully to the resolution that we have to take, so that we maintain a flexible and effective response. Against this background, we do not support the Enhedslisten's proposal, but look forward to the discussion that will come when the Home Guard investigation is ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103656	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103659	Thank you. Before you could hear the Secretary of Defense on the platform say that we must do everything we can to strengthen security. It is, after all, a little the same as the Socialist rapporteur has said. The only thing that puzzles me is: why not act now? So why not act and get these weapons removed from private homes when we can see that they are a danger to the Danes' safety? After all, there was no connection with the terrorist attack on the streets of the armed National Guards. There were unarmed Home Guards on the street. They didn't need their weapons in the terrorist attack. On the other hand, it was one of the National Guard's weapons that was used to kill people in the streets of Copenhagen. So I would like to hear from the Socialists: what is the argument for not taking action now? What's the argument for not securing the Danes best by removing these weapons from private homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103750	The Danes must be able to feel safe in their homes, and they must also be able to do so with the weapons legislation that is in this area. In relation to this, a proper step has, of course, been taken after the terrorist attack. It was the case that the weapons locks were actually removed from the weapons at once, and the ammunition is not in the home either. That is why it is not a fully-fledged weapon. A control of arms storage has been carried out, and a study is being initiated which we must discuss. If we reject this proposal, it is also because that study is being carried out, and that is why we must have the political debate afterwards. And there I really would like Enhedslisten to be involved in the political discussion as well, and that we could make a permanent solution where we were a large, common circle that was involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103841	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103844	But Enhedslisten is happy to contribute to a broad solution, and we could do so, among other things. Do something about today by getting a broad consensus that we must give priority to the security of the Danes first and therefore remove these weapons from the private homes so that we ensure ourselves the best possible, and so that we avoid these weapons coming into the hands of criminals. In my best opinion, this is an inadequate and unfortunately temporary solution that has now been chosen, which does not remove the possibility of these weapons being stolen. But I must also say that I did not hear a single argument from the Socialist rapporteur that it is important to have these weapons in private homes. On the contrary, we can hear from the Home Guard itself that it was not necessary, and that it would not have been a problem if we had to get the bundles before the operation. And if you're going to retrieve the bundles from a depot, you could also retrieve the weapons from a depot in connection with the terrorist attack in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507103937	I really think that we should take the leadership of the National Guard and the National Police and other authorities seriously when they are now examining how we can do it in the future, so that we make a political decision on how things should be. I think we owe it to them, and that is why I think it is premature to just say that the weapons should be picked up immediately. A lot of measures have been taken: the weapons locks have been taken, there are no ammunition in the home, secure weapons cabinets have been made, and we are thinking about how we can secure the weapons cabinets even more in the homes, among other things. with some codes on the locks instead of keys. A great many things are happening in this area, and I think we should take the authorities seriously and listen to what they have to say and then make the political discussion and decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104017	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104019	I have set myself a personal goal in this first reading, namely to get an argument for those weapons to be at home. Now the ammo is central, now the bundles are central. Then there is not, apart from any symbolic argument that a weapon should be in a closet in a private home of 4 000 people. If I were among the 4,000 people, I would say: may I also be allowed to deliver my weapon to where it is safer, so that I do not have to go around thinking: I wonder if someone is going to steal it. Wouldn't Mrs Annette Lind give me just one argument to go out the door with, why on earth should those weapons be in private homes? Well, I guess we all agree that the fewer weapons we have circulating around our society, wherever they stand, the better it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104117	First of all, there are no National Guards who have weapons under duress in their homes. You can drop them off if you want. That's the way it is. This is about having a quick and flexible response when things happen. It may also be appropriate, in the context of education, to have the weapons in the homes. So in order to be able to have this basis we must have a nuanced and thorough decision, which is why we have also examined things with the authorities, no, it is not us who do it, but the authorities and therefore we have to take this decision. But we need a nuanced basis, and that is what we are looking forward to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104156	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104157	Quickly and flexibly, then, that weapon is for the Home Guarder not operational as long as there is no ammunition or bottom piece. Then you might as well have it delivered. He can get weapons as quickly as he can get pieces of bottoms, and he can get ammunition. It is not an argument, that is, that it is fast and flexible. But we have heard about tasks that need to be solved. For traffic control, you don't need guns. For surveillance, you don't need guns. If you're gonna train on a field, you can bring your guns together there. If you're going abroad, you still have to plan your trip, and then you can pick up your weapons. What is the situation where it is advantageous to have weapons at home? I use my wildest imagination to try to imagine it, but I can't imagine it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104248	There may be some special circumstances in relation to this, so that we have a flexible preparedness. There may be many options, in relation to a task faced by one. When acts of terrorism happen, it happens here and now, and it is, of course, that you are called to duty. There are other things. When we have people in education, it may be appropriate to have weapons so that they are easily accessible. It is true that it is not a fully usable weapon that you have, but what you have may be useful to have at home when you are in education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104321	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104334	When you read the Enhedslisten's motion for a ban on home guards storing their weapons at home, it sounds as if it is actually the Home Guard that is the cause of the terrorist attack on 14 February 2015. It's not. It is aggressive radical Islamic ideology that is the cause of the terrorist attack, and that is what needs to be addressed in order to avoid a new terrorist attack. But that does not mean, of course, that we should be indifferent to how the National Guard stores its weapons. We're not. It is good that you look at things in the seams and look at all the possibilities for safe storage of the weapons. But total removal of the weapons is not a solution. On the other hand, we see a strengthening of the Home Guard's ability to provide weapons as an opportunity to strengthen the Danes' security in a time of terror. The Home Guard is an honorable institution of which we must be proud. It took literally a war to set up the National Guard. The Home Guard gives the Danes extra security and solves many tasks in an exemplary way. We must protect the National Guard, and we must not make their work difficult and impossible. If we do that, we risk people losing interest in the National Guard and we lose what took a war to create. Of course, we must not. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104455	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104459	Thank you. The Danish People's Party likes to think that you can be comfortable with the rules that are, and I am surprised. What we read in BT was that, despite the rules that have been in place so far, there has been sloppiness with them, and the sloppiness led, among other things, to. to the fact that this weapon was stolen, which was then used in the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, and I think that is deeply problematic. It is deeply problematic that one of the easiest ways for criminals to get into possession of an automatic rifle is to steal it from private home homes. So why not take the terrorist threat seriously? Why not take action in this area? I am surprised that the Danish People's Party is satisfied with some rules that can be read in BT are deeply inadequate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104546	I do not think we can read in BT that they are deeply inadequate. I think you can read in BT that there have been some break-ins, and it is of course sad and unfortunate that this has been possible. But I believe that the security of the National Guard's weapons is okay, because there is no question of a long line of break-ins and of weapons flowing around in Danish society and originating from the Home Guard. I believe that the Enhedslisten must take the terrorist threat seriously and put in where to do something and where to do something, and it is quite elsewhere, and it could, for example, do so. also be that you strengthened the National Guard. So Enhedslisten doesn't take the task of the terrorist threat seriously at all. The unitary list is trying to lay the blame on some others, who are, in fact, those who are trying to fight terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104631	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104633	Again: Defense is the best attack, but we lack arguments. Because we do not have any arguments from the rapporteur as to why it is that there should be these automatic rifles in private homes after we have been able to see that one of them has been able to kill more people in the streets of Copenhagen and has been able to hurt a large number of policemen. That is a very, very problematic issue, and it should be dealt with politically. So that is what we are proposing from Enhedslisten's side today, and I can hear that you reject it in the Danish People's Party. But could we not have just one argument as to why it makes the safety of the Danes better, that there are automatic rifles in private homes, instead of the Enhedslisten's proposal to remove them being implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104715	Ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned several arguments, and if Enhedslisten cannot understand them, there must be something wrong with hearing. I do not know whether any of the officials in the gallery can check whether the Honourable Members of the Enhedslisten have anything in their ears. Because it's strange when these arguments have come over and over again that Enhedslisten's members cannot understand them. It is clear that if you are attacked in a surprise attack, you may need weapons and that, in the case of rapid mobilisation, you may need to get to your weapons quickly, but it can also be for training purposes, so that you can get to the shooting range without having to drive incredibly long. So there are plenty of arguments to suggest that it is practical and that it ensures our security that homeguards have access to their weapons at home, and those arguments have been mentioned several times by my colleagues. So my question to Enhedslisten is: What part of what you cannot understand or hear?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104809	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104810	There is not one argument, or indeed there was an argument, because Mrs Krarup mentioned that there was a surprise attack where Home Guard is needed. But the Home Guard is not very suitable for example. a surprise attack with bombers or anything else, if we think in such grotesque situations, and I have no imagination at all to imagine that, but let us now say that this was a thoughtful situation. What function would that weapon have without a base and without ammunition? After all, the Home Guard has to gather people in any case, where there is total opposition to go out and fight against a possible enemy, as Mrs Krarup could have imagined, and it is not possible to do so with a weapon without a piece of ground and without ammunition. That is why there must be an organisation in a homeguard, and so it makes sense to collect the weapons so that the risk is not spread out in 4 000 private homes with as dangerous weapons as automatic rifles are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507104912	Well, fortunately, it's not Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl's imagination or lack of imagination must be the basis of our defence policy. I don't think so either, sir. Christian Juhl could have imagined September 11, and not many could. Things can happen, and that's why you have to be ready for a lot of different things that you don't have the imagination to imagine this day. Something else is that we believe that the Home Guard should have their bottoms, that the Home Guard should have weapons that can be used, and that is why we have also been sorry about this scheme, but we understand that we need to check whether we can improve safety. We think this is a rather clumsy way of doing it, because in the longer term there is a clear need for the Home Guard to have weapons that can be used. And I also think it would be better to examine whether the Home Guard can extend its powers to provide weapons, precisely now that we are living in a time of terror, and there may be a need for the Home Guard to undertake additional tasks in support of the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105008	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105009	I agree with Mrs Krarup on one thing: it is not the Home Guards who are responsible for the terrible incident that happened here in Copenhagen; it is of course the perpetrator, it is something that goes without saying. But it is not good enough for us to have a system in which Mrs Marie Krarup and apparently also a majority in the Danish Parliament deal with weapons so loosely that one does not get it collected and secure it a place where one can have control of it 24 hours a day, instead of each person out of 4,000 people having to take that responsibility. Because that increases the risk of those weapons being stolen, which increases the risk of us having weapons circulating around our society. What makes the rapporteur even take the risk when it can now be done in exactly the same safe way if they are not in private homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105105	The handing over of weapons to the Home Guard increases the safety of the Danes. This increases the flexibility and speed of the Danish preparedness. The people who extradited it are responsible people who ensure that the rules are complied with, and that is why it is of course also important that the rules are sensible, and we must always ensure that they are. But the Home Guard's weapons and the Home Guards increase the security of the Danes, and we must respect that, and therefore we must not make their work impossible, as the Enhedslisten wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105135	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen from the Radical Left as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105143	Thank you very much, President. I am actually here on behalf of Mrs Zenia Stampe, who is our defence rapporteur, but who is unfortunately prevented from being here today. On behalf of her, I should like to read the following out loud: as several speakers have already said, the attack on the powder keg has given rise to a renewed discussion of the security of the home guard's weapons. In the Radical Left, we have been sceptical about private extradition and the storage of weapons in the Home Guard for several years, partly because, with the threat picture we have today, we find it difficult to see the justification for private arms storage, partly because there have been several examples that the Home Guard's weapons have been stolen or used for things that were not intended. However, since we know that this is a discussion which is also taken very seriously in the Home Guard and that therefore the National Guard's management has launched a proper investigation into the area, we will await the investigation before we take a final position. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105234	There's a question anyway. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105238	I hope I have to ask a question, regardless of what is more the general position of the Radicals I am interested in. Radicals are a party that is very critical of military armament. Does the rapporteur think it reasonable to have so many weapons in private homes, even very advanced and very dangerous weapons, when it can happen that they come out and can the rapporteur give me an argument that they should not be put together?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105312	Of course, sir. Christian Juhl asks questions; there is, however, the drawback that I am not a defence rapporteur, I would like to point that out after all. But to that I will answer what I said in the speech, namely that we Radicals have, of course, seen critically in this area, and we will continue to do so. However, I also think that the National Guard management should be commended, since a study has been started and, after all, we think we should wait for further conclusions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105346	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105348	Well, I can inform you that the questioner is not a defence rapporteur either, he is just an interested member of the Folketing. Has the rapporteur, Sir? Jeppe Mikkelsen, in this debate or in other contexts heard an argument that could be valuable to use to store the weapons in the home? If so, I would like to hear it because I do not yet see that there is one argument for it, but there are very, very many arguments against having weapons in private homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105421	Well, I think there are some excellent arguments for that, among other things. that it provides a faster response, but there are also arguments against it. Well, you can see it from both angles. We have then been critical and wondered whether this is necessary, as I said before, and we have continued to do so. That is why I think that the Home Guard itself deserves praise, because this issue has now begun to be looked at. In respect of that, I think we should wait for the Home Guard to complete their position on this before moving on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105452	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105454	I would also like to take part in the debate, even though it is not the defence rapporteur for the Radicals that we have here. That's in relation to the expectation of the National Guard report. Now we are two and a half months after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, and we have not received the report yet. We have a situation where we can hear from several parties here in the Folketing that they do not want anything to happen, actually quite the opposite. We could hear from the Danish People's Party that one wants the bundles to be returned again, so that we have the status quo, perhaps even more weapons, one could hear from the Danish People's Party, which, like the Left, argued that weapons were better to have in private homes than in depots. I'm so excited if that's true for armored rockets and grenade launchers. But what I would like to hear from the Radicals is: why not use the fact that we potentially have a majority that could manifest today? The Enhedslisten has made a proposal. Why not take action now? Don't we risk this being a pickle jar and the bourgeois block better safety for the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105552	It is the usual discussion whether you have to cut to quickly or whether you have to make well-thought-out solutions. I sincerely believe that the Home Guard deserves credit for having dealt with this problem itself, which we Radicals have been critical of and will continue to be critical of, and in respect of which we would like to wait, and I have the patience to do so, even though Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has made an interesting suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105615	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen one more brief comment? Yes, he does. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105623	Well, then, sir. Holger K. Nielsen also has time to go up. It is good that the rapporteur has that confidence. I would just like to say that I am puzzled and I would call for a discussion to be held on this in the Radicals, because we can hear that there will be a great deal of resistance to increasing the security of several in the Folketing. That is why the Radicals could of course consider whether we should not use Enhedslisten's offers and mandates in order to improve the safety of the Danes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105651	It is very hypothetical whether or not in future there might be a majority in favour of it, etc. I don't think I'm gonna relate to that. I would rather have it on a solid and well worked-out basis, and there I think that the investigation which the Home Guard itself has taken the initiative deserves praise and deserves to be completed before we take action. That is the position that we radicals have, although we remain critical of this issue of the storage of weapons in our homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105720	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105729	Our position on the Home Guard was thus characterised by the 2008 report by the Defence Commission, where we had a minority opinion on this issue. We believe that the Home Guard is doing an excellent and good job in preparing for major events, in carrying out guarding tasks, etc., but we find it very difficult to see the factual basis for the Home Guard to be armed. Because, as has rightly been said, you don't use weapons in the tasks you're in, and I think we have a lot of people who are happy that you don't. That is why we find it difficult to see the reason for having an armed national guard. It is, of course, an institution of the Cold War which would strengthen the popular defence if there were an outside invasion. That was the whole reason for the National Guard. I do not think that is the threat picture we are seeing today. After all, it was also apparent from the report by the Defence Commission and the threat assessments which we are working for; it is not an invasion in the traditional sense that is the threat to Denmark's security. The threats are elsewhere, and that's why these classic home defense jobs are no longer relevant. Everyone knows that they are not. That is why, in our opinion, the National Guard could be disarmed. Now the terrible thing happened around the powder keg, and the National Guard immediately took the initiative to remove the bundles from the weapons that are at home. I think that is a good initiative. In our view, the National Guard should be commended for this. That is why, like others, I think we should just wait for the Home Guard to arrive at what they are doing in the study they are carrying out, rather than having to run through this proposal that Enhedslisten is putting forward today. However, as I have said, we fully agree that there is no objective reason why the Home Guard should be armed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105949	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507105951	Thank you. I'll start by signing for SF's position. I think it is positive that the SF shares the Enhedslisten's view that the Home Guard should not have weapons in private homes, and I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in this context that it is out of date that Denmark does not face a threat from an alien invasion, and that, on the contrary, we could see that it was problematic in the context of the terrorist attack, is quite correct. What I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, is why you will not support the proposal from the Enhedslisten now. We discussed this with the Radicals, but now we have two and a half months after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, the report has not yet arrived, and we can hear in today's debate that both the Left and the Conservatives are proposing to block a decision to remove the weapons. Why not go to Parliament and use a possible majority we could obtain, the SF and the Enhedslisten and perhaps the governing parties, to get these weapons removed from the private homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110055	Maybe the government parties? They have said that they cannot support it, so that is not a very sustainable argument. I think the justification lies in the difference between SF and Enhedslisten. It was Aksel Larsen who once said that if you are going to Korsør and can go with you to Roskilde, then you do. And that's the difference between SF and Enhedslisten: Enhedslisten will not be followed to Roskilde, Enhedslisten will all the way to Korsør before Enhedslisten will anything. That is what characterises Enhedslisten's approach to politics, that is, either you want it all, or you want nothing at all. Here the SF goes in and affects things, and we're actually quite happy that the National Guard has started this. Instead of running a front against the SF and the government parties, I think that Enhedslisten should support an effort to ensure that the bundles still have to be removed from the homes. You could hear that there are bourgeois parties that have a completely different approach to it. So wasn't it more important to go into that fight instead of running this parade proposal, like it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110154	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110157	Without going far into a discussion about Aksel Larsen, I would just like to say that the problem is that you can have a block on that. I have praised the removal of the bundles, I just think it is inadequate, and I fear that the right wing will block the proper security in this area. And that's just why my call to SF was to consider whether we should not rather go to the Assembly Hall and then try to pressure the government parties to prioritize the Danes' safety over the convenience of the Home Guard when they go on training, and then get these weapons removed completely from private homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110235	Well, that's the difference. It is the best that will be the enemy of the good; that is always the way for Enhedslisten, where you turn the demands up all the time, and then you get nowhere. Then you can stand and shout and make such a parade proposal here today, and then you can go out and tell all the friends in the hinterland that now you've done a lot of things you haven't done anything. It is well known that no pressure is being put on anything with a debate like this today, so it is irresponsible, it is a completely irresponsible way of making politics. And that's where the difference is between SF and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110307	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110320	Thank you. It is certainly relevant to consider when terrorist acts have taken place with weapons that have been stolen about why it happened. And I assume that is the consideration that Enhedslisten has also made, and respect for it. The only question is: what conclusions are drawn, and what are the consequences? It is always questionable when it is possible to acquire weapons which are then used for a purpose other than what they were intended for. This has happened before in history, and it has happened both with private weapons stored privately, and it has happened with weapons from arms stores, and it will probably happen again, no matter how well you fit in with the weapons, because history has shown that those who want to acquire weapons for terror, theft or other criminal acts will also acquire these weapons in one way or another. The question is: How do we make this as difficult as possible? And there we have noted that the Home Guard has taken the initiative to remove the bundles, which means that the weapons are not dangerous. Then you have to commit stealing in several places to acquire a weapon that works. It is an excellent manoeuvre during a period when you will find out what else the security measures should be. But the risk of weapons being stolen is certainly also present in relation to weapons stores; there is even the possibility that more weapons can be stolen at once. So it could almost be a concern here. So we respect the fact that an assessment is under way which at some point leads to a conclusion on how to store weapons properly. We believe, in fact, that a home guard should have the opportunity to have access to weapons, and that should also be quick access if necessary. One could even consider, in the wake of what we have heard, whether resources other than the police could not be used in various tasks. If it had been possible to deploy either soldiers or homeguards in the current guarding tasks in the situations we have unfortunately experienced, it could well have been that we had strengthened the preparedness and that the guards had been there, who should be there, instead of the situation we are now in, where we can see that they were too late and too weak. So there are more considerations to be considered in the wake of this, and if we are to use a Home Guard more actively, we must of course ensure that they have access to weapons if they are to be quickly involved in a task. And that's why we say no to this Enhedslisten proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110601	There's a question. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110603	Thank you. I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Liberal Alliance believes that the terrorist attack in Copenhagen was an example of the fact that the Home Guard needs weapons. So, what you can hear from the Home Guard itself is that they say that it would have been no problem to have removed the pieces of bottom by then, because you just had to get past the depot and pick them up. There are plenty of depots in Copenhagen, and one could easily have done that if one had used weapons. But you didn't need weapons, because the Home Guards who were deployed and made good efforts were policemen who were unarmed with soft helmets and yellow vests, and they should be very praised for that, but they didn't need automatic rifles, and they certainly didn't need their automatic rifles at home, so they were easy targets for criminals, which we have unfortunately seen in recent years have been able to steal automatic rifles and, unfortunately, one of them has been used in the Copenhagen terrorist attack. What I would like to hear from the Liberal Alliance when you say that you have to make the best of yourself is: why is it not to make sure that these weapons are removed from private homes in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110713	Now the weapons are actually quite well secured in private homes too. But I was actually trying to point out that in the Liberal Alliance we could easily see the situation in the future that more actively is being used, for example, homeguards in guarding tasks, when things happen here, where there is a picture that coordination was difficult and that people may even be missing. The fact is that both the military and the National Guard are actually trained in shooting and have excellent weapons at their disposal. And if one were to be included in such a guarding task as we saw when we were protecting the Jews in Copenhagen, one could have used homeguards with weapons, for example, for guarding tasks, so that one could remedy the shortage that might have been on police officers that we are hearing about these days was the background to the boring situation there was. We therefore point out that in the future we could consider more active use of forces other than those of the police, and then we should look at the storage of weapons in that light. That is why we do not want to be involved in making decisions now that lead to something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110817	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110820	Thank you. I have to say that I am very surprised that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that weapons are safe in private homes. Well, we just had a terrorist attack in Copenhagen, where it was an automatic rifle stolen from a private home of a homeguard who was used. We also have nine examples in the last three years of this happening. In several of these cases, there has been sloppyness, that is, that the National Guards have not even followed the inadequate rules in this area. How can the Liberal Alliance stand here and say that there is good security when just two and a half months ago we had a terrorist attack in Copenhagen, where it was poor security, lack of security and wastefulness that led to an automatic rifle in circulation, which could then fall into the hands of a terrorist who, of course, is solely responsible for the action he took?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110919	It is quite true that sloppyness is unforgivable. Now, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen also knows as well as I do that theft of weapons has historically taken place not only from private homes but also from weapons stores, and there are even a number of examples that there have been significantly more weapons stolen from arms stores as a whole than there are from private homes. That is why it is a thoughtful situation which Enhedslisten is trying to draw here to gain support for the proposal. And I just have to maintain that there is no evidence and there will be no greater certainty that weapons will not be stolen in the future by collecting them in storage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110955	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507110957	I don't quite understand, sir. Leif Mikkelsen's argument. When you steal from weapons stores, it's a problem. Does that mean that sir... Leif Mikkelsen believes that military weapons on the weapons stockpiles should be spread to, for example: Defense personnel, or what is he trying to say in this case? I believe that because there is stealing in an armory, it is not an argument for increasing the risk of theft by spreading them into homes, in other words, just as you have in the Home Guard. I don't understand the logic of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111036	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl agrees with me that the problem is just as large or larger if weapons are stolen from a weapons warehouse and can be used for criminal matters. It's no better than it is if it's from private people. I believe that theft of weapons is deeply regrettable and should be prevented in all possible ways. You can discuss whether you believe more in a spread or a collection. I just note that from an armory several weapons can be stolen at once compared to a single weapon in a private home. I don't suppose so, sir. Christian Juhl and I may disagree. But I might be able to find out if we disagree on that. It is always regrettable when some manage to acquire weapons they should not have. I have just tried to say here: I do not think we can prevent that under any circumstances. It is a balance of whether we want a Home Guard, which therefore has an opportunity to be a Home Guard and act as Home Guard and be put into special situations, or we do not want to. And that is what we want from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111134	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111136	Now I myself was in a situation where, as a conscript, I had to look after an armory. There were manned guards on. You can make that relatively clear once you've put things together. I'm sure there are people who know more than I do how to do it. But it goes without saying that if a private individual is to look after a weapon and there are 4 000 private individuals to look after 4 000 weapons, it would be much safer to gather them and have a number of professional people to look after these weapons instead. I would certainly feel safer as a citizen of Denmark that those weapons would not come into circulation if they were stored together and under professional supervision instead of lying out in private homes. After all, we have seen concrete examples of this being wrong and there is no single argument that we need to get our weapons quickly. There is no argument for that. We haven't heard yet. Then you have to go into those fantasy scenarios that Mrs Marie Krarup was into, and that's beyond all ordinary thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111244	Now it is not because I have the illusion that I believe that I can convince Mr. Christian Juhl with arguments in this case. However, as I am told, there have been considerably more weapons stolen from arms stores than there are from private homes. That alone could lead to the poor solution of having them in an armory because many people are available at once. That's how you could conclude. I do not, but I am just saying that it is not the solution to say that theft of weapons is prevented because they are in an armory. That is what history shows very, very clearly, and that is why I think it is very sensible to wait for the study, the statement, the review by the Home Guard itself, and then we will take a position on it at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111324	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado for Conservatives as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111340	I'd like to start by saying that sir... Holger Juhl Nielsen was very kind and gentle in his characterization of Enhedslisten's proposal, for he merely called it irresponsible. If I am to give my overall view on this, I would say that it is both a miserable and awful proposal. It is because, as conservatives, we are very fond of the National Guard. After all, the Home Guard is doing a great deal of voluntary and social work which is of great benefit to our community. They solve a number of important tasks that we should all appreciate, and we must also ensure that the Home Guard continues to function properly. We're sending Home Guards out into the world to solve international tasks. I myself have had the opportunity in Odense to meet some of them, and they make a huge difference. The Home Guard solves tasks both with and without weapons, and in the Conservative People's Party we therefore have great confidence that these weapons are stored safely. When it comes to mobilising, it is important that we do so quickly. We are confident that the National Guard has approved selected National Guard soldiers to store a personal weapon. The Enhedslisten wants to put an end to the Home Guard, just as they also want to shut down the military to a large extent, which is why this motion for a resolution will be completely disproportionate. It is quite obvious and quite obvious that the weapons of the National Guard must, of course, be kept under lock and lock with double safety. On the basis of a gun robbery, we are currently carrying out a raid. check whether the security and storage of weapons are as secure as possible. It must, of course, continue. More weapons are being stolen from weapons stores in barracks. Weapons can be bought and smuggled in, and if a terrorist wants to get a weapon, it can also happen by stealing from other places. So we are strongly opposed to removing weapons from the Home Guard soldiers and we are vertically opposed to the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111532	Thank you. There are a few questions, but before we take them, I should like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur mentioned someone named Holger Juhl. I assume that it was Holger K. Nielsen that the rapporteur meant. It's just to get it straight, even in relation to the record. Mai Mercado Yes, but it may be because I was sitting next to Christian Juhl. But it was Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, I meant). Yeah, thanks for that. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen with questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111555	I have to say that I am very puzzled by the attitude of the Conservatives. Conservatives say this proposal is miserable and irresponsible. Do you really think that it is irresponsible to consider whether security should be tightened up after the terrible terrorist attack in Copenhagen? In other words, when the rapporteur for the Conservatives says that it is quite natural to have these weapons in private homes, I have to say that I am puzzled. Because we have a situation where one of the weapons in a private home was used in the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, and that is not a unique case. In the last three years, we have nine cases of automatic weapons stolen from homes of homeguards. Isn't it time to put the Danes' security first and then give priority to getting the best possible protection and getting these weapons removed from private homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111649	It was actually I who called the proposal miserable and terrible, and it was the SF who said it was irresponsible, and of course I agree with the SF in that. That Enhedslisten may find it strange that the Conservative People's Party is really fond of the National Guard surprises us all, because we have always supported the National Guard. And that's an isolated case... that's what Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen also where weapons are stolen in private homes because, by the way, they are not secured as they should, but that means that you want to remove all weapons from the entire Home Guard, we simply do not understand. I don't think you have to be blind to know or what it's called that of course the perpetrator of the assassination in Copenhagen had gotten those weapons anyway, because then he would have gotten them by other means. I don't think we should conclude that if there hadn't been that break-in, there would have been no attack, and we wouldn't have had a perpetrator. Because I don't think that's the case. I believe that the perpetrator was so intent on making a terrorist attack that no matter how and how he might know to get hold of the weapons that enabled him to carry it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111816	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111820	Thank you. The isolated case where a weapon was stolen in Ringsted, which, contrary to the rules, was in a basement, was the one weapon used to kill two people in Copenhagen and wound five policemen. In other words, isolated cases can have very, very severe consequences. And that is why I would just like to hear from the Conservative People's Party whether you think that the rejection of this is taking the threat of terrorism seriously. Does the Conservative People's Party take the threat of terrorism seriously when, two and a half months after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, where a National Guard weapon has been used, it does not want to secure it better in the future so that it cannot happen again?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111904	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20150507111907	We take the threat of terrorism seriously. Well, the Conservative People's Party has just been a banner leader to say that more money was needed for the police. What we are seeing right now is that almost all police circles feel pressured on resources because they have to deliver people to Copenhagen. This means that, in the face of bourgeois crime and the solutions that the police have to provide locally, pressure is being put on. No one can benefit from this, just as no one can be served by the fact that a large part of the bill to be paid after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen is for the police themselves to pay. There we have put forward openly that we think more money should be provided to the police; we think it is wrong that since 2011 500 fewer police officers have arrived, and we think that more police officers should be made to carry out those tasks instead. So I think that when it comes to presenting what is ambitious in terms of protecting Denmark from terrorism, the Conservative People's Party must be regarded as one of the most ambitious parties who, in the negotiations too, have wanted to find money elsewhere. We have said that it does not in any way need to be the police's own area, so we sit and feed the dog with its own tail. We can easily go in and look at other areas where we can go in and give priority to the police. And I have actually understood that Enhedslisten is now beginning to think is a good idea. These are new tones, but we are quite happy about that, and we also hope that it will last forever after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112025	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112031	I think we are getting a long way; now we are also going to discuss the number of officers and such things. This is a simple proposal to reduce the risk, because surely we must always do everything we can to eliminate illegal weapons in this society, and if there is a risk to 4 000 home-guardians because they keep their weapons at home, we must do what we can. One step is to remove the bottom piece, that is fine, another step is to say that there should be no ammunition in the home, that is fine, but why on earth should the weapons be there? Well, there's no reason to have that weapon at home. This only increases the risk that we have illegal weapons in our society, and do we not agree that we should try to minimise that maximum? There's no need to talk about it all the time. Can we not go to the bite and ask: What is the reason for this? In what specific situation is there a need for a weapon that can be stolen at home in a private home?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112127	That is not to ignore, because when you call the proposal both miserable and terrible, it is very direct talk. And I do not buy the argument that, because there is a very small part that has proved to be a problem and where it has not been properly secured, it must go beyond the rest. Try to think about if you did politics that way in the rest of Denmark. I can give you an example: ORH was accidentally systematically overdosed during chemotherapy for a number of patients, and this had major, far-reaching consequences. In fact, there were patients who lost their lives because of this overdose. Does this mean that you should stop giving chemo medicine to all cancer patients throughout Denmark because there were these problems at OUH? No, of course not. There must, of course, still be some sense in the policy being pursued. And the proposal that Enhedslisten has put forward today is simply not sensible, and the whole of the Danish Parliament has now largely agreed on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112228	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112232	Well, thank you. Mrs Mai Mercado herself argues that we should include these weapons in particular. If you make a mistake in a hospital, it is clear that if that process is beneficial to patients, you have to continue it and then you have to pay more attention. Here we have a situation where weapons do not serve a purpose where weapons do not serve a single purpose. Some rapporteurs are even so far gone that they cannot come up with arguments, so they have to say: no, that is a miserable proposal. It is not a level to discuss a serious proposal, it is not a way to argue. Try to give just one argument for us to take the big risk of having all these weapons out in private homes? One argument. Why do these guns have to be there? In what situation do they have to stand in their homes and not be centrally stored?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112322	I had a whole speech full of good arguments, which I then folded into that we think the proposal is miserable and terrible. I should like to say this again: for us it is important that you can quickly get to your weapon. It is also important that you have access to it and that you can separate it and collect it, so that you should not only do it when you are at training. You can do that at home or at least you could until the bottom pieces were taken. We think that actually has a value. We think it's important to take care of the National Guard. I understand now that Enhedslisten does not think that there is one good thing associated with our Home Guard. That must then be the position of Enhedslisten. But we think it is really, really important for Denmark that we have a Home Guard, and therefore we see no reason to remove the weapons from our Home Guards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112412	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112427	Thank you for that and thank you for an important debate. This is an extremely important issue. The terrorist attack in Copenhagen unfortunately showed us how dangerous it can be to have home-guard weapons in private homes. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that domestic weapons have ended up in the hands of criminals. In fact, over the years there have been major problems with stolen National Guard weapons. Last month, BT reported that in the last three years there have been nine cases of stolen Home Guard weapons from private homes. In a number of cases, there has been sloppyness and breaches of the quite frankly inadequate rules in this area. One of the stolen weapons was what was used in the terrorist attack in Copenhagen. I am surprised that the Home Guard and the defence committees have not dealt with these obvious problems in the past. It took a terrible terrorist attack to get the bundles involved, and that is only temporary. Right now there are considerations about what to do in the Home Guard. I do not think we need pickles or half solutions. We need to give priority to the safety of the Danes. The best way to do that is to remove the National Guard's weapons from private homes. In the past, you could hear the Secretary of Defense say that every effort must be made to strengthen security. That sounds good, but why not act now? Quite frankly, I find it a little disgraceful that there has not been a single factual argument in the debate against removing the weapons on the contrary. Denmark is not threatened by foreign invasion. The activities of the Home Guard usually take place unarmed when there are no exercises. The Home Guard did a fine job, for which they should be commended, during the terrorist attack with a cordon in Copenhagen, but the Home Guard was unarmed. Meanwhile, the National Guard's automatic rifles are at home as easy targets for criminals. It has been said in the debate that, because we have previously had national soldiers deployed in, for example, Helmand, Afghanistan, they must have the weapons at home. But frankly, because Home Guards in Helmand Province, Afghanistan may need an automatic rifle, that is not an argument for an automatic rifle in a basement in Ringsted. Some complain that training will be difficult. It may be hard to drive a long way, I don't deny that I think we can all recognize that, i.e. that driving a long way by car is a bad thing if you're going to train but we're talking about the safety of the Danes. And I must say that not least the members of the National Guard should understand that it is the safety of the Danes that should be put above all else. Several people have pointed out in the debate that there are problems with the guarding of arms stocks in defence. If there really is an urgent problem with the guarding of arms stocks in defence, I would urge action. It's time for action! The fact that in the past there has been sloppy guarding of arms stocks is not an argument for leaving 4 000 automatic rifles in private homes as targets for criminals, as we have unfortunately repeatedly seen in recent years. Honestly, shouldn't we take the terrorist threat seriously? Shouldn't we put the Danes' safety first? I believe that this is the view of the Enhedslisten, which is why we had also hoped for broad support for the proposal to remove the Home Guard weapons from private homes. It doesn't turn out to be, and I think it's sad. I would have rather seen this happen today than tomorrow, but we will continue to take the debate and we believe that the safety of the Danes must be a priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112857	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507112940	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113010	Thank you for the floor. I can be relatively brief, because I think what the parties want with the proposal here is a good idea: to increase the current age limit for lay judges from 70 to 75 years. We support this on the part of the government, and we do so on the basis of the same arguments that I believe the authors of the motion have, namely that today 70 years is no age • fortunately. We are getting older and, fortunately, as age increases in general, we are becoming more and more competent, even further up in the years. We have raised the age limit for driving. It was one of the first decisions I made as a newly appointed Minister of Justice, which is why I think this is a good idea. So I really hope that we can come together to find the right way to do it. As the authors know, in this area too, a committee of the Ministry of Justice has been set up to look at the issue and they will soon be done with their work. For the sake of good order and also in respect of the people who have done the important work, I would like to see their recommendations, but as a starting point a completely positive attitude on my part.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113123	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it's mr. Ole Hækkerup, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113135	Thank you, sir. President. Yes, as has already been shown by what the Minister said, we are living much longer today, fortunately, than we did in 1962 when the age limit for lay judges was introduced. Life expectancy has increased considerably and, in addition, older people today are also generally more active and can be more than 70-year-olds. We therefore fully agree with the proposer that it would make sense to revise the age limit for lay judges so that healthy and fresh older people can continue to exercise the duties of lay judges until they are 75. It has also already emerged that a working party is currently in the process of examining whether the suitability and composition of the persons appointed to lay judges reflect, as far as possible, the composition of the population, etc. That is why, in our view, it is best to wait for the outcome of this work before embarking on implementing legislative changes. However, I can give an immediate undertaking that when this important element of the future of lay judges is to be dealt with in the Parliamentary Chamber, we will stand shoulder to shoulder in raising the age limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113249	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now it's sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113304	Thank you for the floor, President; I thought there was a rapporteur from the Danish People's Party before. That is actually a very good suggestion, I must admit. I fully share the views of the proposers on lay judges and their age. We can easily look at raising the age limit. That is why I have been tempted just to vote in favour of this proposal. However, if we now hear from the Minister for Justice that the working party is on the verge of something and that it will come here in June, then I think we should wait for their recommendations. I think they would recommend raising the age limit, at least I hope so, but there may be other changes that they also recommend and that it might be good to get along in the same round so that the authorities do not have to change regulations and so on. in two laps. I know it's been a long and difficult birth, but I think we should wait for this work, after all, before we just bite to fuck. I would also like to say radically that we expect something to come out of this committee work soon, so that we can legislate in the next session. Now that I have the courage to wait a little, it is because it is not until 2019 that we will have to name new people for the basic lists again, so the great practical significance will probably not be that we wait a bit. However, I am grateful for the good proposal and I believe that we will soon be able to find each other broadly in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113438	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113446	The proposers propose an amendment to the Code of Procedure to increase the age limit for jurors and judges from 70 years to 75 years, on the grounds that life expectancy in the years to come will increase and that the Danes will later retire from the labour market. We in the SF agree with this, as older people today are both healthier and fresher than older people were 50 years ago when the law was introduced. It is therefore possible to discuss whether the law is out of date. In addition, the law applies so that lay judges are elected for four years at a time and that they may not reach the age of 70 during the four years. In practice, this means that people who have reached the age of 66 and who reach the age of 70 within that period are prevented from being appointed as judges and jury. In the SF, too, we can see the unfairness of this, and especially when legal judges can continue until they are 70 years old. Conversely, it can be said that at this stage there is also a problem in recruiting younger people to participate as jurors and judges. Today there is a considerable overweight of older participants, based on the general age distribution of the population. This may be a little unfortunate, because the layman's institute should reflect the age distribution in society, and it can therefore be argued that a change in the law aimed at more older participants is not strictly necessary. However, as the authors themselves refer to in the comments on the draft law, a working group has been set up to assess the need to change the rules on the selection of lay judges, including the age limit. In a consultation reply from the Left Land Court, it appears that the work of the working group is expected to be completed within a short period of time and, in view of this, we think that we should wait for the report of the working group before taking any final decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113615	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113633	As I think has been said here from the platform, there is a working group looking at how to appoint lay judges, including looking at age limits. We are in agreement with that. Whether it should be 75 years or another limit, we do not know, but we agree with that. Conversely, today there is also a problem of a very biased age structure among lay judges, who, if you simply raise the age limit without thinking it as a whole, may risk getting even more skewed. We would therefore very much like to see the outcome of the work of the working group. It is true that most of the people who are actually indicted in court today are young people, and therefore it may be a problem if a very large proportion of the lay judges sitting in court are much older. It is a real problem today that those who have time to engage in that work are often people who have retired. All honour and respect for the fact that they are putting a great deal of effort into ensuring that our legal system works, but we would also like to see whether we could not have a slightly more equal age distribution. We think that will benefit legal certainty. So negative from Enhedslisten, but much like a collaboration on a possible deadline or other for how we can speed up the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113810	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113826	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is a co-sponsor, and that is why the party naturally supports the proposal. Otherwise, I can say that I have a particular personal interest in reaching the point where age limits should normally be raised so that people are not excluded because of it. So there are several reasons why we can, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113848	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113909	Court judges are elected for four years at a time and must not be 70 years old during the four years of the election. This means that people as young as 65 years of age are cut off from being laity judges. It seems quite unreasonable and unnecessary discrimination, and that is why the Conservative People's Party wants to change the age limit to 75 years, and we are not concerned that it will cause problems. Then I think it is appropriate to thank when the government actually backs a proposal from the bourgeois. Now it is the case that we have many other good proposals on the programme today, so you can just hope that it is a trend that will continue. I just heard the Minister for Justice say that, since it was that we made good proposals, we also back up, and I think that we are only making good proposals today, so there are good opportunities to back the bourgeois.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507113956	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507114014	Thank you for the good reception from the government. After all, it gives such an appetite for more in relation to good proposals that can make our society even better to live in. It is the case that the Danes live longer, that the Danes are more healthy and bodily, fortunately, than before, and therefore the current age limit of 70 years for jury and judge is out of date, and that is also why we have tabled this proposal, in other words to make it more flexible, so as not to make any rigid limits that, because you are 70 years old, you are excluded from participating in this work. A working group has been set up to look at things. It was supposed to be finished. The results are left waiting for them after having been postponed sometimes. Nor do we think that the Danish People's Party can continue to wait for this, and that is why we can already see today that at least the part about the age, that is, the division that is on jury and judge, we can try to do something by opening up more people to enter and being part of our jury and judge system. So basically we think it is a good proposal, and it is also a proposal on which the Elders are supporting it. If I had to say something to the government in relation to the pace, it might have been necessary to speed up the pace to implement sensible, more up-to-date rules for jurors and judges. It is, of course, a good thing that the government supports our proposal here today and would like to take part in looking at it, but there is also something called due diligence, and it has therefore taken some time for the government, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507114209	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507114217	Thank you. I shall not tire the Folketing by repeating a proposal that everyone can support and largely agrees with, we must say. It seems quite paradoxical when we change these age limits in all other legislation and increase them that we do not do so in this area. After all, when we in the Danish Parliament have decided that judges up to 72 years of age, and perhaps even with the possibility of extension, can act as judges in a court case, it becomes quite crazy and strange that this medical body may have to stop at the age of 66. It doesn't add up. But I also hear that virtually all the rapporteurs, or indeed all the rapporteurs, agree on this. That is why I just need to concentrate on one single detail, which I think nobody has mentioned. That is the reason why this has become a legislative proposal by the opposition and not, as usual, a motion for a resolution. We have therefore thought that it was urgent, and when it is urgent, it is in relation to Article 2 (2) of the proposal. 2, for it is the case that a new period will enter into force on 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2019. Those who have acted as lay judges now cannot be considered unless we adopt this bill. They simply fall out. That is why we need to have a transitional regime that includes those concerned, and that is what we have here in section 2 paragraph 2. 2. That is why I think it is important that the proposal should be adopted, although we are all largely in agreement, and although I also respect what has been said about waiting for the somewhat lengthy work of wise people on a fairly simple subject. Let me give you a concrete example of why this is important: among the reported magistrates or lay judges, for example, there is a state-authorized accountant who, to the great satisfaction of both the defendant and the prosecution and, above all, of the court, has served as a judge in, among others. tax penalties. Then you can say how he just gets registered in those cases, but in some strange way it succeeds to everyone's joy. That's how he's actually worked. The only thing he has done wrong is that he is 66 years old and therefore he cannot be considered, and therefore both the court and the defender and prosecutor miss out on a person with experience as a lay judge and experience in these subjects. I find that very regrettable, but it will be the result if we do not vote for this proposal but wait for the work of the working party. So my recommendation will be that we vote in favour, both because of the main reason, namely that we should have extended the age limit here, but also because we via § 2 paragraph 2. 2 is given an opportunity for the existing lay judges to also be registered on the basic lists to cover the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507114535	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507114556	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen, on behalf of the Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507114608	Thank you. Here we have a proposal from the government which, in principle, dates back from the government base that was drawn up a long time ago. It is not going too far to say that whatever the outcome of the elections may be, it is at a very near last moment that there will then be a concrete source of government in this very field. With this proposal, the government will change the competence to take decisions on humanitarian residence permits. It is therefore proposed that it should no longer be the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice who should have the competence, but rather the National Council for Foreign Affairs, and that a right of appeal should also be introduced directly to the Refugee Board. In addition, it is proposed that the conditions for health-related residence permit be written directly into the law and, last but certainly not least, it is proposed that practice be changed, so that in future it will also be possible to grant humanitarian residence permits to particularly vulnerable families where parents are ill and have very limited parental resources, without necessarily being due to the state of health. We in the Left do not support this relaxation in foreign policy. We believe that the current system, the current practice in matters of humanitarian residence permits, are working quite well. In fact, we find it most comfortable when it comes to humanitarian residence permits, that it is the Minister of Justice sitting at any time who has his hands on the wheel and we see no reason to relax the rules further. Humanitarian residents in Denmark are a special group which should remain relatively small. Humanitarian residence must continue to be the exception. That is why, in our view, we also need to be very careful not to relax the rules here, as in other areas, which is exactly what we think is happening here. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507114817	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Hækkerup, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507114828	Thank you. The Social Democrats can support this bill. As I believe, Mr President, I believe that has already been mentioned. Martin Geertsen, the draft law means that we are adjusting the rules on humanitarian residence permits granted to asylum seekers in cases where there are important humanitarian concerns. I must say straight away that basically it is the position of the Socialist Group that practice must continue to be restrictive. Humanitarian residence permits must be granted exceptionally because they are an exception. When it makes sense to adjust the rules, this is due to the fact that the purpose of the rules does not fully correspond to practice. First of all, what has already been mentioned is the so-called child-family criterion. It was actually introduced as far back as 2007 by the VK government. This criterion was intended to meet the families of children in which parents are unable to care for children because of their state of health. When the criterion was introduced back then, it was considered that 20 to 50 persons per year would be included. Since then, it has become apparent that only one family of children has been included in the criterion. In other words, it has been shown that in practice the law is not applicable, as it was intended in 2007, and therefore I think there is good sense in considering a slight adjustment of the law. In addition, the draft law, as has already been shown, means that decisions on humanitarian stays will be taken in the future by the Foreigners' Board and not by the Ministry of Justice, which means that there will be an opportunity to appeal against decisions to the Refugee Board. Of course, it strengthens legal certainty. There should be no doubt that humanitarian residence permits are now a needle's eye, and we believe that they should remain so. It's an exception, and this bill doesn't change that kind of thing. However, adjustments are needed so that it works as intended, and on that basis I shall recommend it for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507115017	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. It's fast. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507115028	Thank you. The content of this bill has already been explained, so I am not going to repeat it. I should just like to say that, in general, we believe that there are too many possibilities for redress in the field of foreigners. We would like the decisions taken at first instance to be, as a general rule, valid and final decisions and decisions. Then, of course, there may be some special cases where new information is added and so on, and there may then be the possibility that you can complain higher up in the system. Nowadays, when we talk about humanitarian stay, you ask the Ministry of Justice if there is any possibility of staying in Denmark, and then it is the Ministry of Justice that makes that decision. In fact, that decision is final, because very few cases are passed on to the courts. We do not see any reason for transferring that competence to the Foreign Affairs Council, nor do we see any reason why we should again strengthen the Refugee Board on the part of the government. From the point of view of the Danish People's Party, we have an ambition to fundamentally change the asylum system, and we really do not think it would do any harm if the Refugee Board had no future in the asylum system forward-looking. So we really think that part of the bill is quite unnecessary and we do not see the need for it. Nor do we think there is any reason to spend more resources dealing with complaints in this area. As I said, we would like the decisions to be final in the first instance. Nor do we see any reason to support the second part of the bill. One can, of course, discuss how many people end up with a residence permit compared to today, but one has to assume that there must be more people who end up with a residence permit, and we really think it is very reasonable that practices in this area are very restrictive, and the statement that was sent to the Folketing at the beginning of this year shows that practice is restrictive, and we do not see any reason to change that fact. So it's gonna be a no on our side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507115229	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507115236	The Radical Left is pleased with this bill because with it we are helping to introduce much better legal certainty for people seeking humanitarian residence. Humanitarian residence is something you seek when you, as a refugee, are not entitled to asylum but, for various reasons, most often illness, cannot return to your country of origin. Humanitarian residence is very rare and the conditions for obtaining it are very strict. This bill doesn't change it, but it provides a new legal certainty in this area. As it is today, it is only the Minister of Justice who can grant humanitarian accommodation and there is no possibility of redress if you are refused. However, a case can be brought before an ordinary court, but it requires an incredible amount of resources, and very few people have the opportunity and very few do. What the government is proposing with this bill is that the competence to decide on the application for a humanitarian stay be transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Foreign Affairs Agency, and they create a new right of appeal to the Refugee Board. There has been some criticism that the proposal prevents applicants from taking legal action in the courts, but since the Refugee Board acts as a court-like body, we firmly believe that legal certainty is strengthened for applicants. In addition, the bill relaxes a little on the children's family criterion, which has proved to be so tight that it has never been used to provide humanitarian accommodation. And no matter how strict a foreign policy you want to pursue, it can never be the intention of a criterion that it can never be used. All in all, then, it is a legislative proposal which we in the Radical Left are very, very pleased with and which we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507115439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507115445	Thank you. I am speaking on behalf of the SF Foreign Affairs rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. An amendment to the Aliens Act is proposed. Firstly, the proposal implies that the power to take decisions in matters relating to humanitarian residence permits is transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Immigration Authority with the right of appeal to the Refugee Board. In addition, it is proposed that the conditions for a so-called health-related residence permit should be explicitly stated in the provisions of the Aliens Act. Finally, it is hoped that authorities will always take into account the best interests of the child when making decisions for families requesting residence in the country. How's it going? SF finds both good elements in the proposal, but also some weaknesses that we are very concerned about. We see, among other things. positive that it wishes to transfer competence from the Ministry of Justice to the National Council for Foreign Affairs with access to the Refugee Board. In this way, we will ensure the two-tier principle, which will strengthen the legal certainty of the applicant, and we are very concerned that legal certainty is in order. However, we also find a weakness in the proposal, as we consider it critical that there is no possibility of having one's decisions tested by the courts or the Ombudsman after it has been with the Refugee Board. This possibility would have been there if the decision had been taken by the Foreigners' Board. In addition, the fact that the appeal in the Refugee Board is dealt with solely by the President may also be a matter of concern. It would strengthen legal certainty if, for example, independent medical advice were also used to guide decisions on serious health conditions. Such administrative practices shall be used in all other management decisions when decisions on health measures are to be taken. Why should this not apply here? This medical advice will also be important in relation to manifestly groundless applications for humanitarian stay, so that decisions are based on medical reasons and not on a legal basis. There has to be a high degree of legal certainty here, as, with a procedure for manifestly unfounded cases, we are cutting off the right of appeal for certain applicants. If it turns out that the proportion of cases which end up being dealt with in accordance with the procedure for manifestly unfounded cases increases, there is a risk that the intention of increasing legal certainty with a two-tier principle will be undermined. We are also very sympathetic to the fact that more attention will now be paid to the very special concerns of children who grow up in families under unstable conditions and difficult living conditions and with very resourceless and sick parents. With this proposal, we will ensure even more than today the protection of children fleeing wars and horrors. However, in order to be able to make such decisions on a proper basis, independent experts or organisations should also be involved, as well as guidance from the Foreigners' Board and the Refugee Board. The SF is therefore in favour of the basic intentions of the legislation, but we would like to see a closer look at how we can ensure even more legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507115721	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are approaching the break and the first rapporteur after the break is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. I have the honour to say that the sitting is suspended until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130040	The sitting is resumed. We shall proceed with the first reading of Bill No. L 194, and the next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130043	For 30 years, the Aliens Act has been designed to enable the Minister of Justice to grant a humanitarian residence permit to a refused asylum seeker at any time if there were serious illness or other humanitarian concerns to be taken into account. And for all these 30 years, the rule has been used very, very restrictively. In the 2011 government base, the government wrote that a review of the rules on humanitarian stay would be carried out, and this bill is, after all, the result of the review that the government completed quite a short time ago. I think, in my view, that we need a much more far-reaching fight with the far-reaching practice, which is far too strict in terms of humanitarian stay, in my view. In this respect, the most important thing is, of course, the 2010 rule which states that a refusal to provide humanitarian assistance can be refused if the medicine needed by an applicant is available somewhere in the country of origin. Whether it is practically possible for the applicant to get the medicine is, according to this 2010 rule, completely subordinate. As long as it is formally available, you can reject it. I think that is quite crazy, and this absurdity does not end up with the bill. On the contrary, it is established that in almost all areas the very, very strict practice continues. When the government launched this proposal at the end of March, a headline in Politiken stated: "Sick parents need to have a more humanitarian stay." When you read the article in Politiken a little more carefully, and not least when you read the bill itself, you can see that the so-called relaxation will affect a very, very small number of people. One can say that it is a mini-step in the right direction, but of course it is better than nothing. The crucial news about this bill is that the case is moved from the Ministry of Justice to the Foreigners' Agency with access to the Refugee Board, and I think there may be some good arguments for that. The staff of the Foreigners' Agency may be more competent to deal with applications for humanitarian residence than officials in the Department of Justice. There may also be an advantage in the fact that it is the same authorities that deal with asylum cases that also deal with humanitarian matters. And all other things being equal, it can be said that it benefits legal certainty that a two-tier system is introduced, so that a refusal by the Foreigners' Board can then be passed on to the Refugee Board. However, when we are talking about legal certainty, I think it is worth noting that it is the chairman of the Refugee Board who alone decides matters; that, as a starting point, it should be done only on a written basis; that there is, as a starting point, no possibility of having a lawyer appointed; and that there must be very specific reasons why a complaint to the Refugee Board should have suspensory effect. In other words, this is not such a dramatic improvement in legal certainty. A particular problem, such as: The Institute for Human Rights has pointed out that the decisions of the Refugee Board are final. It is clear from the draft law that the decisions of the Refugee Board in these humanitarian cases will continue to be final. They cannot therefore be brought before the courts. The decisions of the Ministry of Justice on humanitarian matters today, even if that option is used very, very rarely, can do so. The fact that the decisions of the Refugee Board are final in asylum cases justifies the system whereby the decisions of the Refugee Board are typically based on credibility assessments which are not so suitable for judicial review following the decision of the Refugee Board. But that is precisely not the case when it comes to humanitarian matters. Here, for example: The question of whether or not a medicinal product is available in an asylum seeker's country of origin is, after all, quite well made part of the evidence in a trial. It could therefore be considered to include in the law that the decisions of the Refugee Board in humanitarian cases are not final and that there is an opportunity to bring them before the courts. Another possibility is to let the Aliens' Board be a review body in humanitarian matters, because in the Aliens' Board the finality clause does not apply here. What is crucial for the Enhedslisten is that legal certainty should not be impaired and that access to humanitarian residence permits should not become even narrower by virtue of this amendment to the law, and we have not, in fact, made our position final on the draft law. We call on the government to reflect on the issues raised in the hearings, among others. from the Institute for Human Rights and which I have raised here from the platform today. I would also like to ask a few written questions, such as: on how often it has happened that a humanitarian case has been passed on to the courts after it has been settled in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130556	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Pind, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130600	I was sitting as a minister with these humanitarian residence permits, and it is quite right, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says, that it is, among other things, in relation to very, very sick people that we have the possibility of dispensing with all kinds of other rules. I am surprised that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is talking about legal certainty and law, because the whole idea is precisely that, in the particular situations where some need help, we can go beyond it and grant a humanitarian residence permit. Now it is becoming much more rich, which is why I am actually a little puzzled by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. In other words, why does the Enhedslisten not want the security valve to be given a humanitarian residence permit for people who really need it from a political point of view? In other words, a minister who represents the political people's government says: this situation is so unique that we are giving a humanitarian residence permit here. Why would the Enhedslisten perhaps want us not to know what it will end with red tape and bring it into a rigid system of fore and against? I don't think I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130708	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130710	I have to say that I think it is rather opaque, as the system operates today, because it is up to the Minister for Justice to decide at any time whether or not you think someone should have a humanitarian stay. And I also think that what is called the cuteness factor is going to play a pretty big role, i.e. whether you have just been on the front page of Politiken or in Good morning Denmark or something else. That is why I think there is some sense in putting it in the Refugee Board, which must assume that they are then based on the guidelines for when humanitarian aid is granted. For such guidelines there are, of course, and Mr. Søren Pind, of course. I mean, it's not just that the Minister for Justice finds out when humanitarian aid is being given out of the blue. So that could be the advantage of putting it in the Refugee Board rather than being left with the Minister and being given on the basis of what the Minister just thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130810	Sir. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130811	I feel that justice is very, very important, but so is mercy. And in the argument put forward by Enhedslisten's rapporteur, it is as if justice, transparency, simplicity and rules are much more important than a political representative of the Danish people's government in a specific situation shows mercy on behalf of the collective. That surprises me, because I do not normally know Enhedslisten as a representative of that, and I wonder about the fear that a very small part of Danish immigration policy is political.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130850	I think that all foreign legislation is political. Because the legislation we adopt, which is transparent and which applies to everyone and so on, is of course political. And I think you can combine mercy and justice. I guess these two things aren't the opposite of each other. I would like to give an example, namely the Im Act, which some can remember. This is an example of a case that ran in the press, and one ended up simply changing the law. I mean, you didn't just give Im the opportunity to stay, you also ended up saying that if someone else ends up in such a situation as Im was in, that's also true for them. She was a girl who lived in North Jutland with her Danish stepfather, but the stepfather died, as far as I remember, but it is also minor. The point of that is that it is politically said: it is not a good situation; it is not right that she should be thrown out, so now we are changing the law so that others who are in the same situation should not be thrown out either. I think that was wise, and it is well to combine what the rapporteur calls mercy with justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507130954	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131001	Thank you. A great deal has been said and explained, and that is what happens when you are rapporteur No. 7 in the series: then the various legislative proposals have been trampled through and through, and this is good in the service of public information. I shall not repeat it, but I would point out that what is proposed in the draft law is that practice is changed, so that in future it will also be possible, in the circumstances, to grant humanitarian residence permits to particularly vulnerable families of children, and that sounds very, very reasonable. Now it is just the case that the Liberal Alliance's policy in this area is actually that this kind of thing should not get there. In fact, we believe that more resources and greater efforts should be made to help people in their vicinity. It will be cheaper, it will be better, and we will be free from having such a large number that grows firmly in a culture other than that they know and are used to, where they saw over time, and at least as long as we have a red majority, grows firm in Denmark and suddenly gets granted Danish citizenship. And they even get that without being able to speak our language, and thus they have no chance of integration. So the impact of this is questionable. In the neighbourhood it will be cheaper to help, and it would be better, and then asylum should be used for what it was actually intended for, namely for those who are personally persecuted because of their beliefs, their tasks, for example. authors, their expressions, etc. It would be more appropriate for it to be more limited to that. So with these comments, we say that we cannot support the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131156	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131208	I will be very brief: we Conservatives actually think it is good to have a two-tier principle. However, with regard to the part relating to humanitarian stay and to changing the practice of this child-family criterion, which is exceptionally used and which must be restrictive, we are currently unable to see through how many more residence permits will actually be granted. This gives us a little uncertainty as to what we will actually say yes to if we support it. That is why we cannot support the proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131255	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131301	Thank you for that and thank you for the various contributions made by the rapporteur. Not surprisingly, there are differences of opinion on a proposal like this, because there is, of course, a question of humanitarian stay at all. Some believe that what we are proposing is too tight, and others believe that it might need to be tightened up. Following on from what the Socialist rapporteur said, I would like to say that humanitarian stay in the eyes of the government is, and must also be, a needle's eye; it is an exception which applies to some of the most ill and vulnerable people, to whom all other options at the present time have been exhausted and which we, for humanitarian reasons and nothing else, allow to stay temporarily in Denmark. The government does not want a break with the basic rules on humanitarian stay, but there is still reason to make a small improvement in the rules. Firstly, as several rapporteurs have said, in the future, matters will have to be dealt with in two bodies: first, they will be the National Council for Refugees and, by means of a complaint, the Independent Refugee Board will be the second body. I think it is a good idea to move the task away from me, which is currently the country's Minister of Justice, and I think it is wise at all that it is the authorities that are carrying out this type of task and not changing ministers. With the proposed system, the vast majority of people will actually have the opportunity and resources to have their case tried by a higher body, and the Refugee Board will be able to change a refusal to grant an authorisation. In addition, we propose that the conditions for a humanitarian residence permit in the light of health conditions should be explicitly stated in the law; no substantive changes are made to the provisions here, but that will be clarified. Then we propose a slight adjustment for the group of families with children, where parents can only very easily take care of their children because of their health. Indeed, the examination by the Ministry of Justice of the current regulatory framework introduced by the VK government back in 2007 shows that not a single authorisation has been granted on the basis of the regulatory framework. I thank you for the debate and we will, of course, answer some of the questions raised by the Enhedslisten in particular. However, I would like to stress once again that humanitarian residence permits must be the exception and not the rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131540	Thank you. There are a few brief comments now, and the first is from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131544	Thank you. It may be a little surprising that the government chooses to remove jurisdiction from the Ministry of Justice and transfer it to the Immigration and Refugee Board. Because the case, which was also mentioned earlier today by Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, i.e. the Im case, was the result of the fact that the jurisdiction was actually removed from the Ministry of Justice and transferred it to the Foreign Affairs Board. One might hope that the government might have learned a little from that case. It was in fact the one that made the Folketing have to adopt a special law in that area. I guess that is also what we are basically opening up here because the Minister's ability to intervene in some of these matters is actually being removed. As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Søren Pind had a good point in saying that some of the flexibility in the alien system is being destroyed, and I think that is actually quite unnecessary. That was more of a comment. The question is this: it is clear that 4 million will be spent. kr. Every year on this. Why is the government giving priority to this? If you have 4 million. kr., you can spend on something, then there are plenty of other things in society that you could use them on it could be the police, it could be the welfare area etc. What are the priorities when you say that you have millions that you then spend in this area instead of in so many other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131652	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131654	Now, of course, it is not in the order of priority. However, I think it is obvious that, for example, asylum seekers who have been rejected, there may be some very special humanitarian conditions, so that we have to look after some people who are having a real, really difficult time for a time, because they are typically very, very ill. This follows, I think, both from our international commitments, but also quite trivially from our human commitments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131720	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131722	Yes, but the system already allows the Ministry of Justice to intervene in some of these cases and to decide that one should be allowed to stay in Denmark for a certain period if there are some exceptional circumstances. That possibility already exists today. What we are doing here is basically preserving that opportunity. You may come with a small extension, but basically you retain that possibility. You just cost the system, and that's what I don't understand. Why do you actually do that when you have a system that, in general, works quite well today? Because if the government agrees with the Danish People's Party that practice should be restrictive, which it is today, why not maintain it if it is basically thought that it works reasonably well, rather than redeploying the system? The money could have been spent on many other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131802	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131803	We are, of course, changing this because we think that there is a need both to make some clarifications in this area, but also to ensure greater transparency in who is actually making the decisions. And I think that's kind of smart for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131816	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131820	Thank you. What are the Minister's comments on the objections, which include: The Institute for Human Rights has the possibility of depriving applicants of the right to bring the matter before a proper court of law? I am aware of the fact that another body is being introduced in the form of the Refugee Board, which is a court-like body, but it is only a court-like body.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131848	Thank you. I'd like to say that you can photograph from the gallery, but you can't use a flash. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131855	It is, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen herself says, a court-like body which is now becoming a second body. We think that is a good way of dealing with this in terms of legal certainty, and we know it from elsewhere too, so I do not share the concern. Like some of the parties to the hearing, I am very concerned that there is legal certainty in this area and that we must, of course, have the opportunity to test our case. But there will be the bill here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131927	That's it. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507131946	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132000	Thank you. And I shall be extremely brief. For the Left, this case is quite simple and obvious. Firstly, we want Denmark to remain part of the Dublin Regulation and secondly, we want to ensure a good and safe and sober way of registering asylum seekers who come to a Member State. For this reason, the Left simply supports the implementation of the Eurodac regulation in the draft law here, a draft law which ensures that the necessary legislative changes are implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132041	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Hækkerup, Social Democrat, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132049	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialists too can support this bill. We are in favour of a system in which there are rules in Europe for which country to deal with, for example, an application for asylum. The specific rules for this have then been revised, and it is this review that we are carrying out with this proposal in Danish legislation. The Regulation ensures the effective application of the Dublin Convention by establishing criteria and procedures to determine which Member State is responsible for examining, for example, an asylum seeker. It both makes sense and makes clear where refugees are moving in Europe, and at the same time, as I said, it offers the opportunity to enforce the Dublin Convention. The proposal itself contains a number of technical amendments. That is, for example, the case. amending the deadlines, extending the information to be provided and not making information received from the central Eurodac system available to international organisations, private institutions or countries which are not, moreover, members of the European Union. All in all, it is an improvement in the rules that will ensure more effective application of the Dublin Regulation. To this it should be noted that this draft law is exclusively about being able to implement the provisions of the new Eurodac Regulation which are already covered by Denmark's parallel agreement with the EU. Due to Denmark's legal reservation, Denmark must conclude an additional agreement on access to Eurodac data in order to ensure that Denmark can participate in this part of the Regulation. As the draft law shows, we are now waiting for this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132211	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132215	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. Ole Hækkerup about something. As I understand the draft law and the regulation that is behind it, the information to the alien must be provided, among other things. have his fingerprints recorded, as something new happens in writing and, if necessary, orally. I think it seems unnecessarily bureaucratic to put in the extra layer. Because if it is that you have to request interpreters for example. to inform the person why he or she is fingerprinted, it is, after all, resources that will go from other work within the police. I do not see that it is described in the bill, that is, where to take that money from. How does the Socialist rapporteur view this? Because it is not quite cheap to make sure that the material is translated into a language so that people can understand it, and it is probably not quite cheap to request an interpreter if you do not understand what is on the paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132308	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132309	The first thing I have to remember is that I have to thank Mr. Martin Henriksen to ask me. Because in my introductory speech I was not told that I was also speaking on behalf of the Radical Left. So it is Mr. Martin Henriksen, who has become the entry ticket to make sure that I remembered the Radicals too, and that is important. They are of course also in favour of this proposal. The second is whether it should be interpreted precisely, as Mr. Martin Henriksen says. I'm on my feet a little bit unsure about that. As a starting point, I always think that it is best for people to understand the decisions that have been made and to make sure that it is, of course, proportionate to the costs. I think this should be the starting point for what is taken of management decisions, i.e. how exactly it should be interpreted when implementing the regulation in Danish law, i.e. what scope there is in it. I understood that it was in Mr. Knox's office. Martin Henriksen's question. If we are to have a completely authoritative answer to that, I think we are really going to have a written question for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132412	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132434	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we basically believe that it is sensible to have joint registration in this area and that it is fundamentally sensible to be able to exchange information. That is why the Danish People's Party tends to support proposals which are very similar to the proposal we have here on Eurodac, and I agree that it may be a good idea to include the proposed deadlines in the legislation. But I also think it is relevant to ask how well the joint registration works today. How much do we really get out of the cooperation that we already have? Because we are already exchanging information as it is today. If we take the Dublin Agreement, we can see that for the moment there are approx. 200 asylum seekers, which we cannot send to Italy, despite the fact that we actually have some common agreements in this area, and despite the fact that we are already exchanging information with Italy. So there is something that is not fully working according to plan, so we will be asking a number of in-depth questions in committee. For example, we would like to ask why the proposal is deemed to be close to cost-neutral when the police are required to inform foreigners in writing and orally and when it appears that it is something new. It must, of course, withdraw resources from the system, and it is certainly resources which one might think could be used elsewhere in the work of the police. I think it is a little thought-provoking that, at the same time as I read the draft law, you actually charge the police extra costs, you write at the end of the bill, on page 12, that it is not considered to have the high financial cost to the public. Both can't be right at least in different directions. We would also like to ask why third countries should not be allowed to take part in the information. If it is the case that a third country, Australia, the United States, or whoever it may be, has an interest in sharing some of the information that we have in the common register, and we may also have an interest in obtaining some information from those countries, why should we cut off the possibility of exchanging information with each other on specific individuals, if this can be beneficial to all parties? We would also like to ask the Minister for Justice for a comment on the hearing of the Legal Policy Association, where there are some considerations about how the bill is playing with the agreement made by a number of EU-positive parties in here to abolish the legal reservation. So we go into committee reading with a critical view of the bill and then we see what comes out of the discussions in committee and whether there are any good answers from the Minister for Justice. That must be the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132702	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132726	We are in one of the biggest refugee crises in the history of the world, and it is important that we both help refugees in the neighbourhood and those who need protection when they arrive in Europe. We must, of course, be aware that we must help those who have an urgent need for protection, and if they do not, they must be sent home. We support the Dublin Regulation and therefore also the fact that we have an effective fingerprint register. It is therefore difficult to oppose this proposal, which improves the register and increases the safety of those who give fingerprints. However, I would also like to say that it may not be appropriate for southern Europe to be left alone with the great pressure of refugees. We are at risk of the system crashing and of the fact that registration does not happen or that no return can take place. Perhaps it would be more appropriate if we were to open up a debate on the distribution of refugees in the European Union. There are some Eastern countries, for example. Portugal too, which does not take up much, and perhaps we could start by calling for that. In conclusion, we in the SF regret that a proper consultation period has not been given. It's not okay. to those organisations that are working seriously on these issues. But the SF can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132831	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132837	We cannot support the proposal. We think it is very sensible to try to deal with the refugee task in Europe, and we also think it is reasonable to have some form of joint registration. On the other hand, we think it would be even more sensible to try to achieve a fairer distribution of the refugees who come to Europe. I think everyone can see how big a task, for example. a country that Italy is with right now. I think we could make a joint undertaking there, but that is not what this proposal is about. We are, in principle, critical of the Eurodac system because of the possibility that police and intelligence services will have access to these fingerprints, even if they are people who have done nothing criminal or are suspected of anything. They've just been seeking asylum. I mean, the rest of us aren't fingerprinted like that unless we've been a suspect. This proposal increases the power of the police, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132942	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507132949	Thank you. It's a fingerprint record. When it was adopted, Denmark was not included. We were then part of a parallel agreement, and that is what is being made more permanent now. That is why we can support Denmark being involved in this in order to prevent cross-border crime. One can then hope that if it has really been adopted in Europe and several countries are with that South European countries too take their task seriously and ensure that registration is serious. That is why it is necessary for it to be effective in practice and to be more effective in combating cross-border crime, which would otherwise not be able to take action against, detect or record. So we think it is a step in the right direction, and that is why we can vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133041	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the Conservative rapporteur does not appear to be present, it is now the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133051	Thank you. I can do this quickly because, as has already been said here from the platform, we are implementing a regulation that has already been adopted. And, of course, it is important for Denmark that we are here to ensure an effective Dublin system. I think this is extremely important for our ability to deal with the refugee challenges we are unfortunately facing at all. Let me immediately answer the question from Mr. Martin Henriksen, in terms of languages and the use of resources by the police. If I have understood correctly, there will be a pamphlet on the common language of refugees that is needed, with precisely this information. It is being created at European level by the European Union, and it is then the one that will be extradited quite specifically. So it should not in itself be resource-intensive. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for your consideration and, of course, we shall be able to answer the various questions that may be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133209	Thank you, Minister. There is a question from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133213	Thank you. Yes, it also says in the bill that an EU booklet will be drawn up describing the rights of the foreigners concerned, and the EU booklet can then be used in Denmark. It is not necessarily something that calms the Danish People's Party, I would say. But it also says in the draft law that, in addition to drawing up such a pan-European pamphlet, if the message is not understood, the message must be transmitted orally. That must mean that an interpreter must be requested, and the police must ensure that this is done. It costs something, it's not free. And where do you take that money from? That is, in fact, the question. Could the Minister comment on that? Then the Minister also said something very relevant, namely that we must ensure that we have an effective Dublin system. But how does the Minister think that this is in keeping with the fact that, as has been the case not so terribly long ago, there are up to 200 people in Denmark whom we would actually like to send back to Italy and should be able to send back to Italy, but which we cannot send back because the Italians are not responding to the inquiries made by the Danish authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133316	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133317	Well, that's a very pertinent question to ask. And I think it is obvious to everyone that the Dublin system is under pressure. We have seen it in Greece years ago, and we see it now in relation to Italy. I think it is important to stick to the Dublin system. It must be the case that the first European country to which you come is the place where you are an asylum seeker if you apply for asylum. Otherwise, we cannot in any way manage and deal with the very, very difficult refugee challenge we face. The specific problems surrounding Italy, for example, are, after all, trying to deal with bilaterally and through European cooperation as well as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133401	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133410	The minister still needs to answer how to deal with it. If the persons concerned do not understand what they are given in writing, then it must be the case that an interpreter is requested and who should pay for it? I do not assume that we can simply send the bill down to the European Union, even if the money ultimately comes from the same place. That was one part of it. The second part of that is that I did not think the Minister was quite clear about what we should do in relation to Italy in order to get them to withdraw the asylum seekers in question. I understand that this is also what the press has shown that the Italian authorities have simply ignored Denmark for a period of time, and at some point it has been possible to provide such a general guarantee that people are treated properly if they are sent back. But you lack the guarantee that applies to each family or individual. How far are you in relation to that? Because this bill does not change the fact that the Dublin system is not working as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133453	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133454	It should be the case that the information material that is being made is made in such a good and easy to understand way that you understand what it is about. And, as the Socialist rapporteur said, it is always a good principle, no matter what authority contact there may be, that citizens actually understand what is being said. In relation to the discussion about Italy, Italy is ■ and I think that one has to have some understanding of that in a really, really difficult situation with very, very large entry figures and very tragic events around the Mediterranean. That does not change the fact that we have to comply with the rules in the Dublin system, and we are trying to get Italy to do that in all the ways we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133539	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133556	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Nonbo, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133621	This bill, in its simplicity, is merely a postponement of a revision provision, and it is a revision provision in relation to Denmark's implementation of an EU directive on logging, in other words in the field of PCs. There is a very long time to talk about this too, and since it is a postponement to the next parliamentary year, I would say that we in the Left support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133650	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Hækkerup, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133655	Thank you. The Socialists, too, can support this bill, and we are really doing so on the basis of the arguments that Mr. Karsten Nonbo mentioned it. That is to say that this is merely a review clause and that it is appropriate that if the rules on logging in the European Union have been overruled by the European Court of Justice and the rules therefore have to be revised, then we wait to revise our rules until the common EU rules have been revised. 'Cause otherwise we're gonna end up in something that's kind of hello man ax handle. And that is why it is a wise idea to say that we are postponing our review until EU rules have been revised. And that is what is really behind this bill, which the Socialists can, of course, support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133739	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133746	Thank you. I'm not going to prolong the process either. This is a very small thing. We will postpone the revision until the next parliamentary year, and the Danish People's Party can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133757	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is the radical rapporteur present? Yeah, he's coming. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133810	I'm not pulling it out either. Radicals can also support the postponement of this revision clause, given that we will wait for what the European Union is going to do in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133824	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133829	The SF may also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133837	I would just like to say that it does not appear that the Enhedslisten is present. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133852	Thank you. I just want to say to the Minister for Justice: when this is a good bill, there is full support in the Chamber. So remember, Minister, only make good bills. We support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133902	The Conservatives' rapporteur is not here, so that is why it is the Minister of Justice now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133910	Now I'm going to make a long speech. No, I will not, but I will enjoy the moment when things are going so fast and there is such incredibly broad political support. Thank you for the contributions that have been made. We postpone the audit for a year, and then the Danish Parliament will take a position on the whole question of logging but thanks for the broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133936	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507133950	Then I shall postpone the sitting for five minutes because the examination of this proposal has gone so fast that the rapporteur, who is going to open the sitting on the first reading of the next resolution, will be able to reach the Assembly. The meeting is suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507134303	Then we'll resume the meeting. I repeat that the discussion of the previous proposal was quick, but now everyone is in place in the Chamber, and that is a very good thing. The debate is open, and it is the Minister of Justice first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507134324	Thank you. And I don't think we're gonna spend a little more time on this proposal. Let me start somewhere a little different from the technicalities of this, because what kind of resolution is this? It is about people begging on the street who sit with the sleeping bag and the dog and a tasty coffee cup in winter cold and summer heat and ask for a penny to either enjoy themselves with or to survive on the street. I think begging is one of the worst things there is. It must be an incredibly difficult situation to be in, and I do not think anyone wants to be there of their own accord. In this respect, we are one of the best societies in the world. We do not have a great tradition of begging because, fortunately, for generations, we have built up one of the world's strongest welfare societies. I myself am always afflicted with sadness when I see begging elsewhere in the world, not least when it is exercised by children. We have, as with all other provisions in this area, and even today it is actually possible to be judged if you are begging on the street. However, this requires that the police have given them a warning first, and I do not believe that there is basically any reason to change the rules, because I am afraid of that and I would like to emphasise that these rules will hit some of our most socially vulnerable citizens here. I guess the people I meet on the street who are begging can be roughly categorized into two groups. We have some travelling, travelling aliens who use it to beg as a way of maintaining a standard of living. I think that is one problem. I would like to share in discussing with the Danish Parliament whether we can do more there. I think we need to do more. I believe that one of the most effective is the clear presence of our police at Central Station, at Vesterbro and at Strøget in Copenhagen and in other major cities where the problem is. That is one problem, and I would like to take part in this discussion. But our Danish homeless, who will have to beg because they do not have the day and the way, I simply will not be able to punish any more. That is why I reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507134557	Thank you, Minister. There is no one who has made a brief comment, so we will take Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Karsten Nonbo, Left, as the first rapporteur now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507134605	Thank you. It is true, as the Minister said, that this is probably where the agreement ends. I certainly think that there is a great deal of reason to do something about it for a number of reasons. I would like to join in the debate and the Left would like to help amend the penal code in this area. Why should a warning be issued first? There are many other infringements where there is a fine, etc., and where, after dealing with the case, a warning is issued if you think it is too much for the first time. So you might as well have that procedure in these cases. I would also like to say that if the bets are only the poorest, then I will agree with the Minister of Justice. But I'm afraid it's a delusional picture. I would say that today there is now a beetle industry. I experienced it myself only the day before yesterday, when I went behind three people who didn't look so nice in the clothes and who walked and cheered and talked. Then suddenly one of them said, "I'm gonna sit down here." And then he was a bet. The other two I followed. They went a little further, and then the other one sat down. Then he was a bet. And then the third one became a bet. I was also on a trip with my wife to Norway, and when she's shopping, I usually have to be taken care of somewhere. So I walked around the streets, and there I counted seven beetles, it was in Oslo, so it's not a Danish problem... that everyone had signs written with the exact same marker, with the same color and with the same letter combination. They had so wrong guard relief when they sat and begged up there, and I'm afraid we have quite a few of them in Denmark. Danes can receive cash benefits or early retirement, which is why I really think a little more should be done about them. Okay, it may be that there are a few dignified in between, but I think there are many industrial beets in between, and there are many coming from abroad because there is a market here for beetles who are not saturated. So I would very much like us to remove the prior warning. If you get into the situation that you have a case as mentioned here, you can give the warning there. But foreigners who only come here to feed themselves by betting, must, like so many others, be fined it is a criminal act and they must have confiscated the proceeds of their criminal act. So there is a lot of support from the Left for this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507134858	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Mikkelsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507134902	There is actually talk of a great deal of support. I have to ask a follow-up question just so that I understand it correctly: does the Left have no problem with the fact that, as a consequence of this proposal, if it is adopted, more fines will be imposed on beggars, including those who are not organised, for example. Danish homeless people begging to get something for the day and the way, simply to survive? Doesn't the Left have a problem with issuing more fines to people begging for money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507134940	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507134942	Well, as I said, you can look at things in concrete terms. There is no need for a warning first. If you run into one of these and you investigate the situation, you can give the warning afterwards. So ton of flags, I would say, because what the radical rapporteur is proposing is that this paragraph should get out of the criminal code, that is what the Radicals really want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135008	Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135010	Can the rapporteur of the Left not make me wise about how a person begging for money should pay a fine if he has no money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135019	I do not know if I can make the rapporteur wiser because that is what I was trying to do just now. I can say this again: if you run into a person who has such a situation, you do not have to hand out the fine, then you can give out the warning. You can examine the circumstances of the person and find out why he or she is betting when we have both cash benefits and early retirement. We have social benefits in this country, and I would argue that many of them are therefore people who travel here as benets, and I rather see the heel of them than I see the toe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135059	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Hækkerup, Social Democrat, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135112	Thank you, Mr President. As has emerged, since the 1800s it has been illegal to beg in Denmark, and we basically believe that it is true that it is so arranged. Today it is the case that the first time you are taken gives it a warning and the second time the punishment is so sharpened. We think this is quite appropriate. We fully recognise that there are problems with begging in this country. This is why the police have stepped up their efforts. In cooperation with the municipalities where begging is experienced, efforts have also been made to make it less attractive to beg in Denmark. Because begging can create insecurity, it can be a nuisance to businessmen, but we also have to remember that sometimes people do. Of course, in all cases there will be people who do not have the great resources or are otherwise exposed. This is just to say that, as has already been said in the debate, it is a problem which is a little more complex than just being able to solve it with fines and higher penalties. Because there is a huge difference between the people sitting on the street and begging. It is not the same effort that needs to be made towards a foreigner who may be organized by criminal gangs in Denmark and sent to the streets as it takes to face some Danes who have alone ended up on the streets because of purely social problems. It does not help to impose higher fines on socially vulnerable people who are already unable to pay them. So if I am going to deliver my first criticism of this proposal, it is that instead of hitting what you want to hit, you will actually have to tighten up a penalty which affects two very different groups. I say this because I agree that we need to look at the first group, the foreign criminals, those organised by criminal gangs and what we can do about them. However, the question is whether we can find a way of dealing with them without also hitting those whom I suppose it is unintended on the part of the proposers to want to hit, namely those where it is only deep social problems that are the background. That's the first reason. I therefore believe that we must also say that it is more a social effort that is needed if we are to take action against the other half of the begging. This is, of course, true here in Denmark, where we have to help the people who fall out of our society, and we look at the first part, it is also about the European Union, where we have to find solutions to some of the poverty problems that exist in some European countries. Those people need help in their country of origin instead of having to go to Denmark. Having said that, as I said, we want to help to see whether we can in any way strengthen our efforts towards organised begging. Because it is totally unacceptable that there are some foreign criminals who go to Denmark and create insecurity in a number of areas, as we have also seen with trick thefts. We must not tolerate that. That is why we must take action against begging. But we do not think that this proposal, which is now being considered, solves the problems, because the authors of the motion are cutting everyone apart. You should be a little more precise in your proposal on how to intervene to solve what you think is the problem, rather than just hit everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135408	Thank you. In relation to the subject we are discussing here today, namely begging or begging, I think the Socialists are kind enough to say what they are not in favour of with regard to these organized gangs coming from Eastern Europe and doing this. Often it is Roma who come from Romania to Denmark, especially Copenhagen, but also Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg, and trusts organized. I think the Socialists have yet to answer what they themselves will do. I could mention many things that could be done in addition to what we are proposing here. One of the things that is clear to people who are walking around, for example. The irony in Copenhagen is, of course, that there are a lot of people who, especially during the summer months, are betting and trying to get money out of people. And when you walk them on the blade it has Ekstra Bladet among others. It turns out, at some point, that they are not really in the situation they appear to be in. I mean, it's part of some crime that you go around Europe trying to take money from people who feel sorry for the people in question. So what would the Socialists themselves want to do to get rid of it if they do not want to support this? It is therefore a great nuisance for many citizens in Denmark and also for businessmen who have these people standing in front of their shops.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135541	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135542	First of all, there's no reason for us to talk about each other here. I believe that some of what has proved most effective so far has not really been paragraphs we have adopted here in the Danish Parliament. It has been the strengthened police action where it has been said: we can see that there are some who have organized it here, and there are certain backers behind it, who probably know Denmark much, much more thoroughly than those who come to the country to carry out the begging. One could well imagine that it is here resident criminals or some from other similar environments who get hold of the beggars and send them out. What has been the most effective so far, as far as I know, has been to get the police to make an increased effort so that as soon as possible you get people and get them out, because that is what shows that this is a bad business. I think it is just so cynical: when we are in the half of the begging problem, we are talking about where some foreign criminals have been organized, even by backers at home, it is a purely cynical business. It costs money to get them here, and if that business is removed, because we, as a society, get them out quickly via police action, then it has become a bad business. That's how hard and cynical I think it is. So the most important thing is not paragraphs, but a reinforced police effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135652	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135655	I think there is a little talk here. After all, we have asked the Minister for Justice how many decisions there have been and the answer we have received is that in the courts over five years there have been 49 decisions relating to title. And of this the 27 have ended up with the fact that they have actually failed to press charges and have merely given a warning. It shows a little about how little the police have the opportunity to do, among other things. because of a lack of resources. That is why I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether he would like to give the necessary resources to enable the police to follow up these cases. Because that's basically what this is all about. There, we think, could be supplemented by more tools so that a fine could be imposed on the site. Because too many of these people have a lot of money on them. It has become apparent when you have really gone to the steel in the police effort. The times you've exposed these networks, it turns out they're really good at the muffin. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135758	I am just not sure that the biggest obstacle to dealing with the part of the problem of foreign criminals coming here is necessarily the paragraphs. I'm not sure that's where the greatest weakness in our action against it is. I know that because I have also had the discussion with people from Norway and Sweden, where we do not have the ban on begging and what action they then take. And I don't think it's the paragraphs that are the biggest problem. Do the police have sufficient resources? As a starting point, my answer is yes. But, of course, it is always a matter of priorities. Well, the pockets aren't inexhaustible. But I think the job is to get them and get some of them stressed. It's as far as I know what's happened, because then it's gonna be so bad a business that some of it disappears as a problem. And I think that's the key here, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135847	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Nonbo for a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135850	I agree with that, as Mr. Ole Hækkerup says that we need to get them all the time and that we need to stress them out. I pulled myself in right after Mr. Knox. Ole Hækkerup had said that efforts have been made more intensive, because unfortunately I do not think that is true. We know what other tasks are at the moment, and it is true that it is a matter of priority. After all, over 100 policemen have been dragged into photocars, and there is a lot going around the street in relation to terror and so on, so I do not believe that the effort has become more intensive. But that's what it takes. So I want to know if it's correct and I don't know if it was a speech mistake when it's claimed that you've become more obscene. Or whether it was a speech mistake or wishful thinking. I just want to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507135950	What I referred to was that last summer the Copenhagen Police had a sharper awareness of it. And as far as I remember, it was even the case that in various forests in different places in the Copenhagen area, some had settled and simply had a base there and left there. I also remember finding places where people slept under very awkward conditions, and that was precisely to get as much money as possible for the backers. I also remember that the Copenhagen Police had a very sharper effort made. Well, then, sir. Karsten Nonbo is right to say that, whatever we do, if new tasks arise for the police, which is the case when there is a terrorist attack, then you have to take on the resources that exist and prioritise your tasks. And even if you want more resources for the police, it takes a while to get people trained. It's obvious that if this problem grows again, it's one of the priorities to deal with. Because if you have just once got hold of those who sit behind it and organize it, then you have come a long way. It may well be that this really means that some of it is being pushed to other countries which do not have as strict legislation and as much attention to it as we do. But then, in fact, they are the ones who have to keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140104	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140105	Well, then we're on the same page. It is true that there was this more intensive effort last year, and it has unfortunately been pulled out at the moment. This is probably quickly felt among the professionals, because they have such a quick way of bringing each other news about where the police are, and it is they in the organized trust that are first and foremost left on the street. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur if the rapporteur could see any real difference if the warning were removed from that paragraph. Could we not just as well take the opportunity to give out a prior warning, in other words, in cases where it is one of the 15 years that is betting? And then go directly to pay a fine, if necessary, or to give the warning that can be given anyway and that is given under many other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140201	When I don't agree with the latter, sir. Karsten Nonbo asks, it is because this legislation will not only apply to the things we can see having to do with organised crime, but will apply to everyone, that is, to those who are merely poor and who have nothing to do with organised crime. It could be people who are mentally ill, or I don't know. Therefore, I would like to say to Mr. Karsten Nonbo, and I am very serious: I would really like to look at what we can do more about the first problem, in other words where we can see that it is about organised crime. But I think the key to this is to find a way to do something about that problem without getting everyone cut over a comb, and also to do something about the problem that is just about those who are really poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140250	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140255	I think there are some contradictions in this. For Mr. Ole Hækkerup says that the paragraphs do not have much meaning and that the law works as it is, despite the fact that one also knows from the answers given to the Legal Affairs Committee that exactly no convictions are being made in these cases and that this does not have any consequences when one begs. So there's a contradiction here. There is also a contradiction when Mr. Ole Hækkerup says that the police have sufficient resources, knowing that, as the Left just said, the police are in an extraordinary situation, where a great many more tasks have come and where right now they are being drained locally because priority is given to delivering personnel to Copenhagen after the terrorist attack. We know at the same time, and it should also be mentioned that there are 500 fewer officers than in 2011, despite the fact that the size of the begging has not diminished. I'm pretty convinced of that. So for me, sir... Ole Hækkerup decides whether the law is good enough or whether to change it may well be that you don't like these changes as well as you have to decide whether you really think that the police can actually do these tasks that they are facing. Right now, it seems contradictory.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140416	Thank you. First of all, I have to say that the framework for the police and the police economy is, of course, some that we have reached a broad settlement on, by the way, among other things. together with the Conservative People's Party and also with the Left and the Danish People's Party. So these are the resources of the police. What I was trying to say was: no matter how we turn it, what we have to do in the very short space of time is when new tasks appear for the police, for example. when the problem of begging suddenly explodes in Copenhagen, or when we see something about terrorist attacks, to find out how we can solve the problem, how we can distribute our resources better. That's one. The next question will then be: how can we add some more money because the police have been burdened harder? That is also what we have already done. Then comes the third question: when we are going to make a new police settlement for the next four years and it is going to be done in the autumn... how are we going to organise the long-term police better? This applies to the responsibility for the staffing of the police and the economy of the police. We very much share that view. But I am also just trying to appeal to an understanding of the following: no matter how you organize the Danish police, it will be the case that it will have to be a flexible organisation, and no matter how much money we can make on the short track and I think we should make money, and the government has done so, it does not change that the police will have to have the flexibility that allows them to solve the tasks that are to be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140536	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140537	Now a great deal has been said about the beggars who come here from abroad. But let us try to address the problem with those who beg, who are Danes. I do not believe that one of them is begging to do so, and this suggests that there is a social safety net that they fall through. In any case, I find it interesting that not once during the time spent by the Socialist rapporteur on the platform, social policy has been addressed in this context. Because if you had a social policy which worked and where the social security net held hands under these fellow citizens, then you would not have to beg, and that is why I just have to appeal to the Social Democrats to have a good and coherent social policy one day. And then there should be no question from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140632	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140633	Thank you. What I tried to say in my rapporteur's speech was precisely that these are two essentially different problems. One is about crime, the other is about people who are really poor and who are really at the bottom of society. So I brought it all the way through. My main reason for rejecting the resolution was that it tried to solve one problem by addressing both groups, and I rejected it precisely from the point of view of social policy. Then, as far as I know at least, for those people, there are a large number of problems in life that play together, including mental problems and abuse. You've been abused, you're an addict... there's a whole lot of problems playing together at the same time. That is where we need to work harder. In addition, it is largely located in the municipalities. But there is certainly much to be done in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140721	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507140731	Thank you for the floor, President. I do not like this resolution very much. Is there no limit to what we should punish when we ask Conservatives and Danish People's Party? Now beggars must also suffer, and I think that is strange. It is already possible today to impose a penalty if a warning has been given first, and I think that is enough. And I'm actually confident that the police can handle this mission in a humane way. Instead, we would rather look at, focus on how social policy can meet challenges with begging. It is therefore quite incomprehensible to me that criminal procedures should be used instead. We radicals would like to take part in looking at organised begging and so on, because this is undoubtedly a challenge. But here again it is more a question of the police action being carried out and not so much of the criminal framework as such. The fact that the authors of this proposal embrace all beggars and say that the warnings for all beggars are abolished in general terms is simply not on the radical side. I don't share that view of humanity. And if I'm going to try to get to grips with the Conservatives who are co-sponsors of this, I don't think Conservatives usually do it that way either. Recently, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen out with the slogan "Stop heartlessness." If you really took that slogan seriously, you should start by withdrawing this proposal, which risks imposing fines on people who have no money, who are the lowest in our society, who sleep on the streets and who are begging for the day and the way. At least I'm surprised. Finally, I have to wonder about one more thing. I have read the proposal a few times, and it says in the comments, and now I quote: On 8 September 2014 the Danish People's Party presented its proposal on wishes for the Finance Act 2015. And then it is written: "The money for implementing this proposal can therefore be taken from here. I think that makes good sense to the Danish People's Party as its proposer, and I have full respect for that. But the Danish People's Party does not only propose this proposal, so are the Conservatives. So the Conservatives are referring to the Danish People's Party's Finance Law requests when it comes to funding this proposal. I simply do not understand that. I simply do not understand what has happened in the drafting of this proposal. Perhaps the proposers can tell me this a little later when the rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and Conservatives come on. But to sum up here at the end: we cannot support this proposal, these are rather unsympathetic ideas, I think, which we do not subscribe to in the Radical Left. We are open to looking at whether we should have a greater police response to organized begging, etc., but the issue of imposing criminal sanctions that could potentially affect any beggar, knowing that many beggars are the lowest in our society, they are at the bottom, they are people who have major social and psychological problems and who live to a great extent of poverty, and that we should then risk giving them more fines, the Radicals are not involved. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141059	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141102	Thank you. Before mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen, in his outrage at this proposal, which apparently does not normally characterise the Conservatives, but which apparently normally characterises the Danish People's Party, so that we might find ourselves very, very harsh and unfriendly to people who are weak, I would say that I think it is such a rather sluggish accusation, as Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen will be there. But leave it alone. I think that we should really be interested in what we can do about this problem, and we have asked how many notifications and decisions there are, and that is also in the comments on the proposal. 49 decisions have been over five years. In view of the challenge that shopkeepers and other citizens face, for example, with Roma coming from Romania, who have organized themselves and are standing on the streets and running it here, Mr. Mr Mikkelsen actually saw that 49 decisions over five years suggest that this is an area that is given particular priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141215	I do not, in fact, reject the fact that we, on the part of the radicals, want to help to see whether we should make a stronger police effort in relation to the level of organised begging that may be, and that will certainly increase the number of notifications considerably. And I think it's pretty good if the police are chasing backers for organized begging. My appeal is that this proposal also means abolishing warnings in general terms. We cannot support this radically, because it will also affect ordinary beggars who do not, because they are organized and come from abroad to the country to lure on the good-heartedness of the Danes, as often happens when you give money to a beggar on the street. We risk that it will also affect those people who are not of the type we risk hitting homeless people or others who live in poverty and are actually begging because it is necessary to afford the day and the way. I think this proposal misses and if Mr. Peter Skaarup's only goal is to go after the organized form of begging, I think there are other ways to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141332	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141332-2	Well, there's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... the path that we are also writing about in the proposal, that more resources should be set aside from the police to be able to do so. But now we have a government that, in its lifetime, has cut the police force by more than 500 men, so that seems to indicate that this path is not very viable. For what the police officers who work with it say is precisely that they could spend many more resources on this and they do not have those resources. And then what we are saying is that then there is a tool which, on the basis of an individual assessment by the police, could be used and which states that the warning should be abolished, so that those who, in an organized form, are responsible for this can immediately feel a consequence of that we do not want it. And at the same time they could be expelled. Wasn't it a tool when the government doesn't give the resources to the police? Because you don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141429	I will take my share of responsibility for the fact that the Danish police force has the composition it has and has the number of police officers it has. But I think, too, sir. Peter Skaarup owes it to tell you that it is not only the government that has been sitting and deciding what economy the police currently have. The Danish People's Party also has that, because it is a broad settlement • the police circle consists of several parties, including Conservatives, the Left and the Danish People's Party. So that the police's finances look as they do and that the number of officers thus also looks as they do, we are in the same boat, I would at least venture to claim. We would like to take part in discussing this autumn whether more resources should be allocated to the police, and then each party can show up with its wishes. Will I then choose begging as the biggest challenge for Danish police at the moment? Actually, I don't think so. I think there are other major challenges I would rather throw my money at if I could decide alone. But we will not be opposed to it if Mr. Peter Skaarup shows up for the negotiations and has it as a requirement we absolutely will not do so in relation to hitting the organized level of begging.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141534	Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141535	I just have to say that it is close to lying to say about the police's finances that no one wants to help find more money. In fact, both the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party have said on several occasions that we are willing to find more money for the police. So there is no question of that. I think, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen has to jump a little off the high horse and this salvation and this goodness that only a radical can feel. Because exactly social policy is really, really important to the Conservatives. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen knows very well that more than one and a half billion kroner have been allocated in our 2020 plan for society's vulnerable, including a very special package for homeless people, which is both for crooked housing and for regular contacts in the municipalities, and which must therefore ensure that there is no need to beg on the street. And when you've taken care of them, when you've strengthened this safety net, it's also fair to say that we don't want people begging on the street either. So I think, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen should come down from the horse, and then I think he should try to speak more truth from the platform instead of standing up and making up such good stories.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141647	Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141648	I never ride, so I stay away from horses. However, I shall remain on the floor a little longer and reply to Mrs Mai Mercado's point. I think there were two, first and foremost that the Conservative People's Party has wanted more money for the police. I have also noticed that the Conservative People's Party would like to devote more resources to the police. But now I'm talking about the current agreement. After all, we have concluded this together. It has also voted in favour of the Conservative People's Party in this Chamber, and what I pointed out was that the Conservative People's Party is also behind the current agreement on the police economy, which applies from 2012 to 2015, since it was voted in favour. That's kind of what I was trying to say earlier. The fact that we may then have a desire to add additional funds in the coming period is quite fair and quite legitimate, and I would like to take part in discussing this when we are going to renegotiate the agreement in the autumn. With regard to social action, I fully agree. After all, it is a social effort that we need to get going, and that is where I wonder, because I actually see the Conservative People's Party as a party that is not just crazy liberals who have much more than just such a crazy liberal ideology. It is a party that also thinks of the weakest in our society and wants to make an intensive social effort. That is why I simply do not understand that we are co-authors of this proposal which can affect all beggars, including those who have nothing to do with organized begging. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141819	Thank you. Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141819-2	We are quite open to adding more resources to the police. I don't think you'll ever see the Conservative People's Party being invited to a debate and then say, "Well, that with more money for the police, we sure as hell won't. Well, we are always open to that, not least in view of the terrorist attack that has just taken place. Well, I guess I'll just have to say, this position isn't new. The Conservative People's Party has always opposed the need to beg. And that is why it goes hand in hand with the fact that we want a strengthened social effort, while saying that it is unacceptable to beg. After all, it is no secret that the proposal here has a very, very sharp aim at organized crime, organized begging, namely foreign begging, which in fact also affects the socially vulnerable Danes as there is. Then I have to say that it may well be that the Jeppe Mikkelsen of the Radicals has not sat on a horse, but I do not think the Radicals are riding on the same day as they saddle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141920	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507141922	Good word again. I also wish it was not necessary for any Danes to beg. I would actually like that, and let us work together towards that goal of social policy tools. I would very much like to be a part of that. When we fail anyway, when somebody ends up on the street anyway and ends up begging for the day and the road for some reason... Despite our amazing welfare community... do we have to punish the person? I do not think so, and I believe that with this proposal we risk moving in that direction more. If conservatives would like to focus specifically on organised begging, I think we could have drafted a proposal that was better and more targeted towards it. As I said, we are open to discussing police action against organised begging, because we are not in favour of that either. However, we cannot support hitting all beggars with criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142018	Then it's mr. Karsten Nonbo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142019	Well, I'd like to sign for it and also say that I'm glad that I might have been out in a delusion and actually thought begging was supposed to be totally legal. I can understand now that it should not, fortunately; especially not the organized begging stand. But can the rapporteur not confirm that we already have provisions in the criminal code on, for example, the death penalty? shoplifting, and there are other laws, for example. law on drugs, where warnings are given in the first instance? Could it not be said as well in this case that it is generally a criminal offence, but we have a case that we mentioned, in other words a social case such as the one we are discussing here. a young beggar, so can we give a warning? However, as things stand today, we are depriving ourselves of the opportunity to be consistent for the first time, especially with regard to the organized, because they are also entitled to a warning under the criminal code first, and that is the requirement I would like to take away. But there is no change in relation to it, which is a social case. Even with a change, warning can still be given first, so there is not much difference between them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142140	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142142	I do not think that the comparison between begging and shoplifting is quite valid. After all, I think shoplifting is something more violent than begging. In the case of begging, no one is actually being robbed of anything. After all, you give your money voluntarily, otherwise it is another criminal sanction that will take effect instead. So no, I don't think it's comparable. I think it is quite fair that some special provisions of the criminal code apply to this paragraph, which deals with begging. But to return to it, as Mr. Karsten Nonbo said in the first place, we do not believe that begging such a bloc should be allowed. I mean, there must be a focus on fighting the organised part, but I am quite well aware that the police may overlook the people who are not organised and who do so solely to get the day and the way to hang together. In fact, I am quite happy that this is not where we spend the most police resources or that it may not be where the police come out at all in cases where a warning has to be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142245	Sir. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142246	Well, fortunately, we are getting more and more in agreement. But then my question is: why should organized crime be warned for the first time? Why should they legally be entitled to a warning? Why can't we just do something about them the first time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142308	That is a very good question, I would like to acknowledge. I am afraid that, if we change the paragraph, it will affect some of them, which it should not affect and which it sounds like Mr. Karsten Nonbo and I agree that we should not be hit by criminal sanctions. It's my fear. If the begging is so organized, I think the police can figure out how to find the same people again and beat it down. I think that's actually possible. And if you want the police to do more in this area, I think that, rather than getting to grips with the criminal code, you need to tackle the budgets of the police and set aside funds for specific action.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142355	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142405	Thank you. As the proposal shows, the proposers want to tighten up the penalties for fraud. Basically, we in the SF are opposed to hitting hard at begging, as it is often a sign of poverty. We don't think per. It is clear that poor people must be regarded as criminals, and that is why we also find the current legislation fair, where beggars can, as a starting point, get away with a warning. In the SF, we do not think that we should hit hard on poor people who are already having a really hard time. However, we recognise that begging has taken on a different form today than ten years ago. It is not only poor people who go begging, but also very organized gangs who are out directly to exploit people's pity and generosity. It's by no means okay. We have even seen horrible examples of organized criminals kidnapping disabled people and forcing minors to beg on the streets and alleys. In the SF, therefore, we agree that organized begging should be brought to an end, and we are not opposed to adjusting the penalties for this type of begging either. However, it is only very important for us to be able to distinguish clearly between those who are begging because of real poverty and those who are organising begging and thus exploiting the goodness of people. The authors themselves point out in the comments to the proposal that there is a difference between the begging and the begging. It is therefore also important for us that it is very clear how we intend to distinguish between these things before we can vote in favour of this proposal. We are not interested in such a proposal affecting poor and already weak citizens, which is why we think it should be examined in greater detail how the right ones are to be dealt with more precisely. For this reason, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142548	Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142554	I just want to ask you something. The SF will look into what can be done in relation to the organised begging, and I really think it is positive that you face the fact that there are... in the courts are very, very few over the years, and that is because the police lack resources. Because at the same time they take a group of these people, it gives rise to a lot of cases in their system and in the courts, and then they can barely spend their time on anything else. I would therefore like to ask the SF whether the solution is quite straightforward: more police, more action towards this and faster action on the ground, so that we can give immediate consequence to those who do so, that is to say, the organised beggars that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142652	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142653	In the SF, we are certainly not opposed to spending more money on the police, because we are not in favour of zero growth or negative growth. Fortunately, it can be said that some of the activities of organised criminals are already covered by criminal law and illegal. But we would like to help investigate how we keep, excuse me, say it, beard for ourselves and snot for oneself, if you may say so, and look at how we get to grips with organised crime, which also translates into begging on the streets and alleys.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142725	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142726	It is, of course, good that SF is willing to look at it and investigate it and something like that, but now we have just had a situation for a few years and the rapporteur himself is a little concerned about it where it has taken a completely different form. We have had a situation where this has just escalated, and these are the same groups that often sleep on the streets and straits and may break into their homes in the evening when the darkness has fallen over Denmark. In other words, it is an organized form where there is simply a need for new methods, and so I would like to hear what the SF thinks it will now, because it seems to have long prospects with more money for the police. After all, it has just been supported that the police received only a small amount of coverage in relation to the great effort to be made in the context of terrorist preparedness, and then they were not willing to give any more money. So where is it SF sees some solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142827	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142829	In order to discuss this proposal that we have before us, what I also started my speech with is extremely important to ensure that we do not criminalise a large number of poor and weak citizens in our society, and this proposal has the challenge of cutting everyone apart. Finally, let us sit down together, preferably in committee, and look at how best to deal with organised begging, which includes both coercion, abuse and abuse of weak citizens. We want to take part in this, but we need to take account of the weakest citizens. At least that is the agenda with which we are going to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142915	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507142924	The Enhedslisten cannot support this resolution either, and we cannot, because what the Danish People's Party and Conservatives are proposing is to combat begging by imposing stricter penalties and making it easier for the police to enforce the criminal law's ban on begging. In essence, then, try to combat the begging of people without money by imposing fines. I think most people can hear how crazy that sounds. Of course, that does not solve any problems. In the Enhedslisten, we agree with the premise that begging has grown dramatically in recent years and that it is part of a major problem. Where beggars 30-40 years ago were a special view in the street picture in Denmark and something most in Denmark connected with countries such as India, the United States or other places where the social safety net could not be compared to the Danish one is beggars today everyday in most major Danish cities. The reason for this is, among other things, that: in the open borders of the EU, which the Conservatives are in favour of, while the Danish People's Party is against. Behind this cause lies also the great inequality in living conditions in the various EU countries. Another reason is an increase in poverty in Denmark and an increasingly grosser social safety net, which in many areas could be much, much better. In their comments on the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution express concern for those who find it annoying that there is a beggar standing in front of the store. I think I should say that this inconvenience felt by the poor shopkeepers is not much compared to the nuisances that people who have to live from begging are experiencing with a life of homelessness and marginalisation, unhealthy living, physical and mental illness and abuse problems, let alone those that the proposers talk a lot about today, namely those who are part of organized begging, because they are also often victims of human trafficking and are forced to beg to return the money to backers. It is a nuisance which must be said to be a lot bigger than those of shopkeepers who have to live with people sitting out in front of their store. In the Enhedslisten we simply do not believe that anyone chooses to sit down and beg because they get a super cool life out of it. Stricter penalties and more consistent enforcement of the provisions of the criminal code on transparency will, in our view, lead to more marginalisation, and this will be a further criminalisation of an already exposed and excluded group. And that will probably make the problems bigger and not less. We must fight the problem of begging. It's about fighting the underlying causes. What is the problem with begging is not that it bothers shopkeepers. What is the problem is that there are people who actually live the life that they have to beg on the street. If we are to combat this, we must restore and develop the social security network in Denmark, we must work internationally for greater equality between European countries, and we must reduce the gap between rich and poor, both in Denmark and between rich and poor countries. It is only when we take steps in this direction that I think we can do something decisive to combat begging. But again, it's not like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507143329	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507143343	Thank you. After all, the debate has already revealed that all rapporteurs relate to two types: those who are part of organised crime, and otherwise the beggars we most often see on the street. The problem with this bill is, of course, that we deal with this kind of thing in the same way, if we agree that there are such fundamental differences in terms. If we take the part of the beggars that the Minister of Justice started by mentioning, who are poor people who are on the social side of this society, we do not believe that harder punishment or to let a warning fall away and start punishing them for doing something about it. Actually, we think we're going another way. Now it is the case that the Liberal Alliance actually has a social issue in which we refer to the very vaguest. Now it is not certain that everyone here is so lucky that they have read it, and so I can quote it from there. It is therefore aimed at those who are the weakest in our society. For some people, the best therapy is to feel appreciated and be able to contribute. The most challenging must therefore be able to offer a special social free card, where it will be possible within a limited period to offer their labour tax-free in a completely unbureaucratic way. It should provide the opportunity to seek and take on a very short job, for example, on a daily basis for cash, a form of employment which allows for days when people are disabled by anxiety, exhausted by the fatigue that can be overwhelmed by HIV infection, or as a result of severe pain after having amputated a leg not able to take up work. There may be a specific agreement to sweep the pavement or shovel snow in front of a store or help the cafes put chairs and tables out and back again. It will really expand the labour market so that those who are badly at risk, who are far from the labour market today, will dare to approach again in a way that is perhaps manageable for them. It will also reduce the risk of so-called secondary crime with reduced crime, regardless of whether you are sanctioned in relation to cash benefits. The target group for a social card may be those covered by Section 81 of the Services Act exposed adults. And then you can take stock of it from time to time to see if they can move forward in relation to the labour market. It could be a social effort for the weakest. Then, as has been said, there is also begging, which is organised crime, and that part of it we can easily help, that is to say that we should not be giving warnings before we can punish. The only question is how to separate it. That is why our message today is that, as it stands, we simply believe that this is too heartless to the very weakest, and that is why we cannot accept the draft law on the present basis, but we can find a solution in which we can get the shovel under organized criminal beggars to a greater extent. It will then prove whether it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507143715	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507143720	Thank you. I think it is good that the Liberal Alliance will go after the organized beggars who come from Eastern Europe, among others. Roma who come to Denmark and do many forms of crime at the same time. I just noticed that sir... Leif Mikkelsen mentioned that this proposal should be heartless and I have to say that I do not recognize it at all. On the contrary, it is an attempt to help those citizens and shopkeepers who have very serious problems, especially during the summer months, with precisely the organized begging and the organised form that it has. It is not about the Danish beggars who may have been begging for a bus ticket or something from time to time. What I really hope for is that the Liberal Alliance understands that the officers who have to take care of this task, who are far too few to be able to do it, are very well able to assess whether it is an organised criminal gang that has to be fined on the spot and where there has to be tough consequences, or whether that is the other thing that no one wants to take a hard stand on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507143830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507143831	Well, is that what you are? When I say heartless, it is precisely to the beggars, as Mr. Peter Skaarup finely describes who, out of need, is doing this. In this respect, we believe that it is true that there is the signal from policy-makers that a warning is given here before a penalty is imposed. That's fair and fair. It is human vision that stands by and that takes the necessary account of the fact that there are people who have come into such a mess. I am still saying that if we can separate it, we are in favour of the fact that we should fight hard and consistently and immediately against organised crime, as it is in fact when we make others beg. That is what can be clarified in the work on this proposal and whether we can achieve it so that we can also support that part of it. But we have difficulties with those I call poor people who, out of need, do this for themselves, in the situation they have now come into.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507143930	Sir. Peter Skaarup for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507143933	I can just refer Mr. Leif Mikkelsen to the comments on page 3, where we are just explaining this problem and what is meant by the assessment in relation to this proposal. There the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party have just taken account of the discussion that I fully understand Leif Mikkelsen is concerned with, namely whether we are going to hit someone we do not want to hit. We should not do that, but we must hit those who abuse our hospitality, and that is where the development has been. That is where we have seen huge problems, and that is where, unfortunately, we will see it again this summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144011	There are no more brief comments. Is it possible to give an answer?). Sorry, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144016	Thank you for your kindness. It is only to note with satisfaction that it might sound like we could get together on it, but we do not at first think that what is stated in the comments is enough because there is really no separation between the organized and the poor people I have mentioned here. We need to drill that out more if we are to end up supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144045	Then there were no further brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144054	I believe that we have all seen them, the East Europeans at train stations and in pedestrian streets, often accompanied by a rhythm box and some musical instrument that is glamoured out there, while a few broken phrases, either in some rehearsed Danish or in English, fall on money. We've all seen them. Most people are ignored by passers-by, but what is the problem, as several have also said, is that we know that a great many of them are organised into crime, they replace each other in shift shifts, they come up here on buses and they send the money back to Eastern Europe. Although we are all aware of this, it still persists, because the consequences for organised begging are apparently not sufficient. Out of the five last years' 185 reviews, only 5 cases have been sentenced, so the consequences for the foreigners are obvious, because it has no consequence, and therefore we see bus after bus coming up here in the summer months. In the Conservative People's Party we want a fight with organized begging. We do not want some begging on the street, neither Danes nor foreigners. Foreigners want us to go home, and it is imperative that no form of support be provided which can encourage that group to settle down. But we also want a fight with Danes who beg, because with Denmark's extensive safety net and our welfare society it should not be necessary to beg. In Denmark you can get both cash benefits and subsidies for a home, and there is a comprehensive social safety net with benefits and measures to help people get on the right track. I'd like to tell you about an experience I had when I visited Copenhagen last year. I come in and meet the girls, and none of them begged, despite the fact that it has to be said that women were at the bottom of society. But it was not necessary for them to beg because they could actually make a living from their cash benefits. They came down to the Nest, some of them out of prostitution and fortunately for it, but to get the community that they once needed. What they were pointing to was crooked housing. They said that in the homes to which they were referred there was too much abuse, too much violence, they could not be in those homes. They needed a permanent contact with the municipality, they needed that someone sort of took care of them. They needed, if they were drug addicts, to go to rehab and not just be told that you can come back in 14 days, as the treatment guarantee that we have today is provided, because it is naughty and rude to that group. When a drug addict returns and says: Now I'm motivated to go to treatment, you should direct treatment immediately. There is no point in saying to that group: No, come back next Thursday between 10 and 12. Because that's when they're finally lost. That is precisely why we in the Conservative People's Party, along with saying that we do not want begging in our 2020 plan, which is fully funded and updated as late as December, are spending 11⁄2 billion. kr. in society's most vulnerable. When you have the ambition to promote heart warmth and to put an end to heartlessness, we also think it is right and proper to say that then we will not have those who beg in Denmark either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144442	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144446	Thank you so much. I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that I had been somewhat surprised that the comments made on this proposal, on which the Conservative rapporteur is also a co-author, refer to the Danish People's Party's financial laws. I simply do not understand why conservatives do this. I can understand it from the Danish People's Party that makes very good sense. But why do the Conservatives not refer to their own financial laws and not to the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144513	Yes, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen in fact a large part of his own rapporteur's speech. Instead of taking a stand on the proposal and putting forward the radical position, it was mostly about just beating on other parties. But we have put forward a package of homeless people which I have just outlined. We have put forward a 2020 plan. We have put forward a plan that we would like to see more officers • 500 million. kr. More to the police. That's why there's plenty to take off from there to get rid of this. So you could say, should we have had it put in on our own? Yeah, we could. Is it a mistake it didn't happen? Yeah, you could say that too. Perhaps we should have introduced it there, but we did not get it, but that is why we still think it is a good and a proper proposal, and that is why the Conservative People's Party is still co-sponsored. I think sir... Jeppe Mikkelsen must now have solved the great mystery that apparently was about where the funding was to come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144606	Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144608	I think that is a fair enough answer, that one then forgot to get one's own, but I also think that one should be fair, and I do not think that I used my whole speech to ask about it. I mentioned it at the end of my speech. You can go in and find why it had puzzled me when I was reading it, so why it was only the Danish People's Party's financial laws that were mentioned in the proposal. But may I ask, because now Mrs Mai Mercado is asking me to deal with the proposal, and I think I have done so too, if we do not fear that the police may find it difficult to distinguish between who is real beggars and who is organized officials from abroad. Aren't you afraid of that? And do we not fear from the authors of the motion that, in this way, we risk giving a fine to some people who have very, very little and who are begging for the day and the way, and not because it is organized to any degree at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144702	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144703	Well, one can easily, if not fear, say that it can be difficult to distinguish. Indeed, the proposal on page 3 also says that it can argue for the introduction of a de minimis threshold. In this proposal we come up with the framework for what we politically believe should happen, namely that there should be a fine and that it should be easier to pay these fines when we see begging, which is organised. But we also distinguish between asking for a cigarette or a coin for a bus home. And that's why it's up to a piece of legislation to figure out what the details of this proposal should be. And instead of starting to find the details, it's a framework proposal that really just signals that we don't want begging in Denmark. Those who then feel compelled to beg must then keep a social safety net under so that they do not beg, but so that we get rid of the industry that is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144806	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507144825	Thank you for a fine reception of this proposal, particularly from the Left, of course, which will almost unreservedly support the proposal. Thank you. This could mean, of course, if there is a second majority in the Folketing at some point, and that cannot be ruled out, that we will then be able to implement some of the things contained in this proposal, which aims to address organised crime in terms of transparency. What some other parties are dealing with is that it may hit some that we will not hit with this proposal. It is clear that if a draft law is to be made now this is a motion for a resolution that needs to be looked at the details of how to do it in practice so that you separate the two groups. But it has to be said that, unfortunately, in the summer of Denmark, the large, crucial group is now Roma and other Eastern Europeans who come here and participate in organised betting and who, in reality, the police investigation suggests are also participating in other forms of crime at the same time when they are not begging or begging. I therefore think it is very important that we focus precisely on the organised begging that very many people are tired of and sorry about, and that is something that we as politicians are getting a lot of calls from citizens about, who want more to be done. It is believed that the police do not have sufficient resources, and that is also what the police themselves say, at least when you talk to the private officers. This may not always apply to the management or the Minister of Justice. So there are some places here where we need to do more from the political side. We can give some more tools, and we can give some more resources to the police so they can do some things. What is the problem, and what creates insecurity, is that some of those who trust, particularly the Eastern European criminals, are very intimidating and very intimidating and do not necessarily take a 'no' vote. That is why we are saying that we need here when we take a group of those who do this organized, with the police being able to intervene on the spot, to fine or to do something even more consistent, instead of putting down the whole police and judicial system, which is often the result. In reality, it is also the case, as we write in the comments on the resolution, that very few decisions are taken because there is precisely the high level of bureaucracy needed to get to the people concerned, get them to the station and make a real decision. That actually means, and this may seem rather ridiculous, that only 49 decisions have been taken over five years. You can figure out how many it is on average per person. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. That is really what we are talking about, so few decisions are here that it is really impunity to do the things we are talking about here. That's why I think it's a little too bad when we hear the government parties in particular, but also Enhedslisten and SF, talk about this here. You may want to investigate, and there may be some things and stuff, but it doesn't really work out. So what is needed is for the police to have the necessary resources and, in practice, to make it easier for the police to intervene if they, for example, do so. can issue such a fine as we are talking about right away. At the same time, we also see some examples of our border controls not working. One can then discuss whether we have a border control at all that works, but it is certainly positive that the government is beginning to talk about the possibility of border controls working. Now all we need is for something to happen. For the reality is that we can look at the few cases that have been then experienced that bus tours are arranged for organized beetles and beggars that are shipped to Denmark, especially from Romania, to beg, especially during the summer months. You also see, as I have said before, that these more or less organized Eastern Europeans are not only begging, but are also cheating on tricks, and burglary and robbery are also some of these gangs involved. So it creates some insecurity, and there I wonder when we go into a summer when it is precisely a problem that the government can see that a proposal such as this one is not really going to support. You don't really do anything, and you don't want to give the police the necessary resources so they can do it. Because what has been said is that you want to grant this $150 million terrorist grant. kr. to the police, but the reality is that it is just to cover a small part of the problem that comes with time off, pay and the like for the extra effort to be made in connection with the terrorist attack. This means, therefore, that we must be expected to meet a summer when this problem is not taken seriously. I would like the Minister of Justice to come up here and promise that it will be taken seriously and that the Minister will make sure that this is something that will be highlighted, otherwise we will have some frustrated citizens, shop owners, people who feel bothered in the daily of these things, and that is not fair, that is not acceptable. So our call to the government is: okay, you don't want to support this proposal, then you have to come up with something better yourself, and you have to do it soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507145501	Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Peter Skaarup. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507145520	The debate is open and the Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507145550	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that my approach to this proposal is different from the one I presented in the proposal we have just discussed to give beggars higher penalties than today, because here we are dealing with an issue that I consider very seriously as Minister of Justice. It is very basically incomprehensible that you choose to come to Denmark as a foreigner and abuse our generosity and hospitality by committing crime. The worse it gets when you commit crime, get convicted, get expelled, and then defy an entry ban and either just come back to Denmark or even worse comes back, even if you are not allowed to be here and commit new crime. It is a violent provocation, it is a serious problem and it does not belong anywhere. That is why I would like to say today to the Folketing and to the proposers that we, on the part of the government, want to tighten up the penalties for foreigners who are in defiance of an entry ban. I think the penalty is too low today and it seems too unclear whether we should be penalised for a very short time or up to the two months, which, as it were, is the upper framework today. After all, we cannot table any more legislative proposals on this side of the summer, but we would like to do so in the next session. I would also like to draw the House's attention to the fact that if we are to do this, I propose that it should be 3 months, which will be the penalty level automatically, if you defy an entry ban, then it will cost some money, and we will have to find them together. Well, it does, doesn't it? I mean, you can't tighten up the penalty, and then you can't pay what it costs. Then there is the second discussion with regard to the resolution here, which I also think is relevant. It is the case that in Denmark we have a good parole system. This makes very good sense in cases where it is given to people who do not intend to commit new crime and where, as it were, you can replace some of your time of service with, for example, returning to the labour market or education. It is my feeling that there is a little too much automatic in the way parole is given today, and I have already reported, on the basis of the terrorist attack in Copenhagen and the perpetrator's way through our legal system, that we will look at the use of parole in Denmark. I am in favour of using parole, and I am in favour of this where it makes sense and has a resocialising character if we are dealing with inmates who want to put the crime behind them and who spend time in prison serving something good and something sensible. But I'm not in favour of parole as purely automatic. And why is this a relevant discussion here? It is because our foreign servings as a starting point are for less time than others, because we do not want them to take up Danish prison places. That principle makes very good sense, because foreign criminals must, as a starting point, get out of Denmark when they have committed their criminal acts. It is quite expensive to have them in the institutions of criminal justice, and that is why I think it is sensible to maintain a system in which we get as many of the criminal foreigners out as possible. But when there are foreigners who defy an entry ban and yet return, I think it is a relevant discussion that the opposition raises, namely: what do we do with the residual punishment that may be? Should it be triggered automatically? I have a very great understanding of the point of view; I am not far from it, I would like to say. However, I also have to say, as Minister of Justice, that here we have something very fundamental and fundamental in our legal system, because it is the courts today who judge in each case how a residual sentence should be triggered, so to speak. I have already asked for this area to be reviewed at the moment. That is why I cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, but I extend my hand to the opposition. I propose immediately to tighten up the penalties for defying an entry ban, and I would like to continue working on the issue of the residual penalty. So thank you to the opposition for bringing this, I think, very important issue on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150015	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150018	Thank you. I would say better late than never, if the Minister is thinking better, because it really does seem perfectly logical to break the rules on the things that have been allowed to happen, namely to get a shorter sentence, because you have been expelled from the country of origin, by returning, you must also do the rest of the punishment, and that should be done in your country of origin. That is really what the proposal is about. What I have to ask the Minister about, of course, is whether we can count on something happening. The Minister says it almost as if this proposal were being implemented. I didn't really hear the Minister say that anyway. The minister would like to sharpen the sentence, but how? Will it be taken care of, and that is what the proposal says, that, if you break these rules, you will be added to the rest of the sentence, and will it be ensured that that penalty will be paid in your country of origin? After all, it is just to make contact with Romania, which has itself declared itself willing to conclude such agreements that such a settlement can take place in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150126	I would very much like to see more foreigners serving in their country of origin. In principle, I think it should be the case that as many servings as possible are possible, and I am very concerned about how we can ensure better European rules and better use of European rules in order to ensure this. As the questioner well knows, this is an area where it is easier said than done, and it will probably be no matter who is the Minister of Justice in the country, because 1) there are many of the countries in which foreigners are to serve in judicial proceedings of the Danish judgment, and that may take some time, according to what I think, for long procedural times we have in our own courts, and 2) there is, of course, a European set of rules in this area, which is today the framework. But summa summarum is that we need more foreigners to serve at home. Fortunately, things are also better and better. Today, fortunately, more are being broadcast than did under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150223	Sir. Peter Skaarup for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150225	Again, I thought it was rather unclear what the Minister was saying 'yes' to. Is this the suggestion that you should do the rest of the sentence and that it should be done in the country of origin? Or is it still a reference to the fact that there are some EU rules that say that you can do this in some cases? And may I remind you that it is the EU rules that mean that we have not really been able to send some Eastern Europeans home for service. In 2014, it was some thirty-seven who managed to send home out of a fairly large group. That is why I am thinking: where is the government's positive? What exactly is the government going to do now and here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150306	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150307	But I have already answered that, but I would like to repeat it because the message is as good now as it was four minutes ago. I want the government to want us to sharpen the penalty for defying an entry ban. We want to look at whether we should have a different kind of automatism in terms of residual punishment. I recognise that this is a rather fundamental change in Danish case law and the way in which our legal system has traditionally worked. That's why I'm asking the Penal Code Council to take part in the assessment. So, in conclusion, I would like to get the author of the question to confirm that today more than before are being broadcast. So it is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150346	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it's mr. Karsten Nonbo as the first rapporteur, rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150405	Thank you. When the Minister of Justice stretches out a hand, I am ready to take it and I would like to take the Minister of Justice at his word and say that we are fully in favour of it. I believe that everyone agrees that in the best world those who are convicted and put in Danish prisons will be expelled and imprisoned in their homeland and not in Denmark. This is the exercise that is at the top of the agenda, but as long as it is not yet possible, we have to deal with what is happening at the moment. It's okay with me. A Dane is paroled at two thirds of the sentence, and it is of course happy with the condition that he does not commit new crime. A foreigner will be paroled at half the sentence, and then he will have to go home, and here I could imagine that you simply merged the terms: provided that you do not come back when you have been granted an entry ban. If you do so, I think that when you cross the border and return too soon, you will be reinstated for the rest of the sentence from which you were paroled. Then you can sit in there and wait, and I do not think it takes long to complete the punishment that needs to be given in addition to breaching the conditions of entry. Then you can get it done right away while you're there, and then you can sit in jail and have both sentences served. That is the signal that we must send to the foreigners, so that we do not want to see them again when they are shown out and have received the discount that says that they are shown out after half the time, and if we see them again, they must have the rest penalty plus the three months that the Minister of Justice talked about and which the Minister of Justice will help to give them extra in order to violate the entry ban. This is a solution that I believe we can live with until we get the perfect solution, and the perfect solution is that when they are convicted they will be sent to their country of origin for serving in their country of origin. As long as we have to keep them, I would also like to say that it is not our job from the Danish prisons to ensure that they are re-socialised, because they are not going out into the society they have stolen from. They're going home, away from the community they stole from. So the Left welcomes the Minister for Justice's outstretched hand in extending the punishment for going into the country, but it will not cost extra if it is the case that we get through the other half, namely the fact that we send them to serve in the country of origin. It is also a common estate, which I hear the Left and the government is entirely in agreement about being at the top of the list. Out with them as soon as they get their verdict, and then we will not see them again until they return after serving their entry ban, and then we will only see them if they have become non-criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150715	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Ole Hækkerup as rapporteur for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150723	Thank you, Madam President. Foreigners who come to Denmark for the purpose of committing crime are by no means welcome to do so. It is positive when the police catch more than before, because we believe it is due to effective police action, and it is also true when far more foreign criminals coming to Denmark are expelled from Denmark. That, of course, is also one of the reasons for the fall in crime that we have seen in Denmark. But work doesn't stop here. Unfortunately, in some cases, criminals thrown out of Denmark may end up returning anyway. And there it is important that, firstly, we get them caught and, secondly, they are punished because they have no right to stay in this country. That is why the Social Democrats are very pleased that the Minister for Justice will put forward a bill to tighten up the sentence when violating an entry ban. In other words, if you have been expelled from Denmark and yet enter Denmark, you get a penalty for it, and now the government wants to tighten that penalty. We are very pleased with that. The next question, as Mr. Karsten Nonbo also mentioned: What about the rest of the punishment that was originally given? Do you want it to be automatically triggered? That is where we think it makes sense for the Criminal Code Council to look into it, so that we are sure that the legislation in this area will be properly and thoroughly based on professionalism. Against this background, I must inform you that we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150849	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150853	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. Ole Hækkerup, about Mr. Ole Hækkerup does not also sometimes get tired of, as we are in the Danish People's Party, that every time the government has to move on to something in the area of legal policy, you have to ask the Criminal Law Council? I would also like to ask Mr. Ole Hækkerup, about Mr. Ole Hækkerup is aware of the expedition time at the Criminal Court? Because in reality, if this is true of believers, you do that, you chain your decision-making to what the Criminal Court finds out. In this connection, I should like to point out that some of the cases we have asked the Criminal Code Council to look at have been interesting and exciting, but it has been so interesting and so exciting for them that it has taken years to come up with a result, after which it has also taken years, of course, to make legislation and thus tighten things up. So I'm just gonna ask... Ole Hækkerup not also tired of us shackling our position and the government making it to the Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507150959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151002	Thank you. But we are not doing that in this particular case. The Minister of Justice has just said that it is intended to tighten up the penalty for violating an entry ban. A sharpening of the penalty for this has nothing to do with the Penal Code Council. Then there is the question: do you have to make an automatic law which says that there should not be a judge to judge it, but that it should simply be said that the residual penalty should now be automatically triggered? There may be some lawyers in there but let them take a look at it. However, the first part, that we are tightening the penalty for violating an entry ban, does not have anything to do with the Criminal Code Council. That's one. The second is that Mr. Peter Skaarup asks me if I can't get very tired of the fact that when you have to move on to justice, you always have to ask the Criminal Court. In other words, some of what has previously been discussed here is getting foreign nationals convicted in Denmark home to serve in their own country, and that is exactly what we have made an agreement, by the way with the Conservatives and with the Liberal Alliance, the SF and the Enhedslisten, to say that here we need to streamline it and have an effective procedure, both in the Ministry of Justice and in the Department of Justice. We've got deadlines on days for how fast it's gonna be. This is, of course, because we want to make the most effective use of the decision of the European Union to withdraw its own citizens, and that is why we have made Task Force Return. One of the things that puzzles me and that I can get tired of in the field of justice is one of the things that is still a little strange, so why the Danish People's Party could not agree to the agreement we made at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151131	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151132	It is true that an agreement has been made there that meant that there were some thirty criminal aliens who were sent home for serving in 2014. It is, of course, better than zero, but it is not very many compared to the number that sits here. But what I really wanted to ask is in relation to what the proposal we are discussing today, B 137, is about, because it is precisely about whether we should make it an automatic, so that it triggers the residual punishment if we violate the entry ban that has been granted, that is to say the expulsion sentence that has been given. And there it is that the Social Democrats and the government are apparently going to let the Criminal Code Council assess what is going to happen here. Then it's just that I'm saying, "Become mr. Does Ole Hækkerrup not tire of the fact that we may have to wait several years before we get a result of it and before we might be able to make legislation? Isn't that too thin, too for Mr. Knox? Ole Hækkerup?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151223	Thank you. Sir. Ole Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151224	But then it is precisely that the answer is: No, because the tightening of the penalty for violating the entry ban is something the government is doing immediately. After all, this is a bill that the government intends to make. So that's why you're gonna get your punishment no matter what. In relation to the second, i.e. the return to work in your own country, I think you should just as calmly state the following: it may well be that both I and Mr. Peter Skaarup thinks that it is too few foreigners who come home to serve in their own country, but it is much more than before, i.e. in the days with VKO. That's one. The second is: in relation to the agreement we made about it in order to streamline the administration as much as possible on that very point, was it quite impossible to recommend it to its own party's parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151314	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151318	After all, it is good that when we make proposals in this Chamber, the government makes them its policy. Now we are beginning to experience it in several cases. We also saw it when we proposed that the passport be taken from Syrian squires, in other words those who were at risk of leaving. We discussed it and then half to three quarters of a year later the government came and was ready for it. So we can only hope for that. My first question should be quite short: when can we expect a legislative proposal to be put in the Chamber to tighten up the penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151355	Yes, the Minister of Justice has already answered that question. As I heard from the Minister for Justice, she said that the possibility of tabling legislative proposals in this session had been exhausted, but if a legislative proposal is put forward in the autumn, it could certainly have effect from 1 January next year. So I imagine this can be a new legal situation in Denmark already in about six months' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151419	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151421	We're only glad it sounds nice. Then I just want to ask you a question about the Penal Code Council. Sir. Ole Hækkerup says it's a legal matter, I think it's politics. It is therefore a political statement that you think you should have this discount, and that is a political position, and that is why I would just like to call on the Socialists to take a more political position. I think that we have had a number of debates here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where cases are being kicked to the corner of the Criminal Law Council, so that they can then spend a few years dealing with a given topic in a jar rather than actually just taking a political position. So it's a little bit about getting out of the bush.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151506	During the 10 years we had a VK government, it was, as far as I remember, a Conservative Minister of Justice over all the years, and exactly the same method was followed. If one had something that was thought to be Conventional, legal, legal or otherwise questionable, or where there might be some reservations, they said: we have to have some lawyers to investigate that. Then they took the second part of it and said: what kind of policy do we want, where do we want to tighten up the legislation? Applying this method of work is not something the present government has invented ■ on the contrary. And that is exactly the same thing that is being done in this case where they say: do we want to tighten up the legislation? Yes, we do. Then comes the next proposal, the release of the rest sentence, where you are not around a judge, and then you ask: can there be any legal problems in that? Yes, there may be, and that's why you put the Criminal Code to look at it. But that method of working is by no means one invented by the present government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151557	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151605	Thank you, President. Let me start by stating that, of course, I am also provoked by the TV 2 broadcast to which the Danish People's Party refers in its comments on this motion for a resolution, just as the Danish People's Party will certainly be, and also a lot of other people will no doubt be. In the Radical Left, we are not usually at the forefront when it comes to imposing punishments, but this proposal by the Danish People's Party is not about punishments, but more about whether to serve the sentence you have been given before you were on parole. That is why we can follow the position of the Danish People's Party some way along the way, as they say in the motion for a resolution. When the provision was introduced that foreigners with a expulsion judgment should only serve half of the sentence in Denmark, it was largely on the basis of the question that we were challenged by overcrowding in Danish prisons. Well, fortunately, we're not anymore. That is why we agree with the Minister for Justice that it is a good idea to ask the Criminal Code Council to look at the issue of the release of the residual sentence in the event of a violation of the entry ban. We cannot support the resolution here today, nor have we addressed our final position in relation to the issue of the release of the residual penalty if we do not comply with an entry ban, but we will, of course, do so in relation to the return of the Criminal Code Council with their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151738	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151757	As stated in the proposal, the proposers want to ensure that foreign criminals sentenced to expulsion must serve the whole of the residual sentence if they return to Denmark despite an entry ban. In the SF, we recognise that there are too many criminal foreigners who break an entry ban, and that is why we understand the reason for the proposal being put forward. However, we must recognise that we do not believe that the proposal will contribute to fewer criminal foreigners complying with the entry ban. We see that the many foreign criminals who return to Denmark, despite a ban, often come from Romania, which is a very poor country, and since poverty is the reason why so much crime is committed, we do not believe that the proposal will prevent people from going back to Denmark, since a stay of a few months or years in a Danish prison will be more convenient than being in a poor Romania, for example. That is why we do not believe that sharpened penalties will affect this group. Then we also have another group, and these are those who have lived all their lives in Denmark and who have family, children and friends here, those who are more connected to Denmark than to the country from which they really come. That group will always return, no matter how high the penalty is; we also saw examples of this in the documentary on TV 2, which is referred to in the comments on the motion for a resolution. In the SF we therefore believe it would be wasted resources to throw people into prison, they take up prison places, and it costs money. But, of course, there must also be fairness and fairness, and that is why we must tackle this problem. We are aware that the Minister of Justice has a draft law on entry bans. We therefore want to wait for what the Minister will bring before we take a final decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151936	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507151950	The Enhedslisten cannot support this motion for a resolution. In many ways, it is similar to the resolutions of the same parties from the last parliamentary assembly that perilous crimes committed by the paroled always, that is. The European Parliament has already expressed its support for the Commission's proposal for a directive. In this proposal, it is about foreigners who are violating an entry ban, and the authors of the motion for a resolution, in the same way, are calling for an automatic procedure so that a violation of an entry ban automatically triggers the residual penalty. In the Enhedslisten, we are against automated punishments, no matter how ugly people they suffer. It must and must be up to the courts to assess what role a violation of a parole or entry ban or something else should play in relation to the residual sentence. It takes a decision on the courts when they judge in cases where persons are accused of violating an entry ban. Moreover, it is already being punished by up to three years' imprisonment, so that is not a lenient penalty. We are in complete agreement with the authors of the motion, and I think we have said this sometimes, and with all the other parties in the Folketing, that criminals who do not belong in Denmark should serve in their country of origin. And we also welcome the fact that in recent years there has been an increase in the number of foreign criminals serving in their country of origin after they have been convicted in Denmark. It is best for the Danish prison system, it is best for the inmates themselves, i.e. the servings, it is the best way to do it. So we agree that we must constantly try to improve on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152155	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152207	Thank you. We are co-sponsors, so it is hardly surprising that we agree and can vote in favour of this proposal. We also agree with those who have mentioned that it is part of it, i.e. that those who are criminals and have served and are on probation and come to their homeland return to Denmark. They must, of course, continue to be punished, preferably with supplements. But it is also mentioned here that the real problem is that a number of foreigners convicted of crime are not serving in their country of origin. We need to get on that road and get more people to do it. Of course, you can be pleased that more people have done so in recent times, but there are still too many people filling up in the Danish prisons. So there are two issues worth mentioning. One thing we can do about here is ensure that those who return will continue to serve. And when we have seen in a television programme that more than half of the exiles have returned within one year, there is, in fact, a problem that needs to be addressed. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152321	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152334	There are some logics in the Danish legal system that are difficult to understand. There are space problems in prisons, so you reduce the punishment for foreign criminals, so they only have to serve half the sentence before they are returned. But why do you have to have such a penalty discount just because you're a foreigner? At least it's hard to understand that intuitively. The criminal foreigners who are serving here can have fun sitting in a Danish prison for serving, because it is a little more pleasant than in Eastern Europe, for example, and they can have fun being released earlier. Then they come out, and then they get an entry ban, and that often turns out not to be enough. We Conservatives actually say quite clearly that the penalty for violating an entry ban must be significantly increased, and we also want to go further than the proposal. In fact, we want the penalty for breaching the entry ban to be increased to one year's unconditional imprisonment, because it is not the case that, by accident or by accident, you will go back to Denmark. You actually do that on purpose. However, this proposal aims to ensure that foreign criminals who are sentenced to expulsion have to pay the full amount of the penalty if they defy the entry ban and come back. This is a proposal which, of course, everyone should be able to support, because, of course, the residual penalty must be triggered. After all, we would like to sign off on the fact that the government would like to look at tightening the penalty. We are, of course, a little more concerned about putting the proposal on the entry ban in a jar over in the Criminal Code Council, and we hope that it will be a slightly faster process so that we do not have to wait for years to get an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152503	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152522	Thank you. We thank you for a very good debate and also for some very good and positive tactics on the part of both the Minister and the government parties about penalties and so on. Perhaps we would have liked a little more precision in the fact that the rest of the sentence will have to be served if this entry ban is violated. For as others have also said in this Chamber, we have probably all seen this television broadcast called the return of the deportees, which shows that more than half of them are returning to Denmark. I even think it was down to 14 hours being record time for when you were back in. We can of course see that 368 people were reported for having violated their entry ban in 2011 and that in 2013 the figure had risen to 435 people. However, the National Police believe that the figure can be much higher, as many who have an entry ban do not get caught. Then you might ask: why should foreign criminals who have been expelled have a penalty of half the penalty or more when they return to Denmark anyway? So we would like there to be a slightly clearer announcement from the government that it would also go in and support that this service should take place as soon as the persons concerned entered Danish soil. Then they were to be held and served the rest of their sentence while then waiting for a new sentence. But there are good bars and we look forward to the debate. So thank you for the positive things that were in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152710	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. No one else wanted to speak, and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152732	The debate has been opened, and that is what the Minister of Justice is going to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507152748	Thank you for that and also thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting this topic on the agenda of the Danish Parliament. Of course, as a society, we should not tolerate the making of bomb threats, they create fear and unrest, and in many cases they are a real, real nuisance for our daily lives, for traffic, for traffic and transport, and for those responsible for the bomb threats, and there must be an appropriate punishment, a punishment that must be commensurate with the crime committed. We cannot support the proposal here. It is not because we do not agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution and the content, namely that there must be a proper sanction if a bomb threat is posed, but, as the proposers probably know, the Attorney General has indicated on several occasions that suitable cases of bomb threats will be brought before the Supreme Court. What is the aim of the National Attorney's Office is to ensure greater nuance in the penalties for bomb threats, so that the general starting point, which must be said to be low, namely 20 to 30 days, must of course be able to be waived in more serious cases. Following the request by the Attorney General, the Board of Appeal granted third-party authorisation in March for the so-called Lalandia case to be brought before the Supreme Court. It is now scheduled for 25 June of this year, and I would suggest to Parliament that we await the Supreme Court's ruling before continuing the debate on bomb threats and sanctions. The second element of the motion for a resolution deals with whether compensation should be sought for any damage caused to victims or any third parties in connection with bomb threats. It can, for example, be done. be an undertaking which is forced to close down for a specified period and, as a result, loses earnings. It is actually the case that this possibility is already available today, and that has also been the case in the Lalandia case. In Denmark, on the other hand, we do not impose on perpetrators the cost of the police's work. It is emphasized from time to time whether hooligans could not be allowed to pay for the high costs we have when football matches are being played, and whether graphitetimists and vandalists and troublemakers could not pay for it. And I actually understand the point of view, because I think it is actually rather awkward, I would like to say that I, as Minister of Justice, have to use incredibly many police resources every time football is played in some of the high-dramatic games; I would actually rather use those cops to fight crime. So I can actually understand the point of view, and so I myself have swarmed for it. It is just a very fundamental question too. In any case, in my view, this requires a rather more in-depth discussion of the types of crime in which you have to pay for the costs of investigation and police work and in which you do not have to. For there are many perpetrators, and most forms of crime are socially devastating, and many forms of crime have higher costs than can be seen, in ruined lives or in destroyed buildings or other elements. So summa summarum: I share the opinion of the proposers that we should not just accept that bomb threats are being made, I would like to await the decision of the Supreme Court in relation to the specific level, and I would remind you that compensation can already be secured today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153136	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153139	Right now it seems a little unfair that the usual punishment is such a month's time. This also shows that the penalty is not sufficiently severe. It must have a harder consequence if it is a threat of bombs. How long should one wait for one to find the right case or case to bring before the Supreme Court? Why have none of the cases so far been available? Immer away, it's still something that's going on evenly. Just in 2013 there were 58 reports of bomb threats, and it has been so fairly evenly, so there are different options. Why hasn't anything happened so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153225	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153226	I am not and cannot comment on the reasons why the Attorney General did not find the opportunity to do so in the past. I'd like to answer that in writing. I can't do that at the moment. But I can say that the matter which I referred to earlier and which is set out in the Supreme Court is scheduled for 25 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153244	Then there is a question from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153250	Thank you. As the Minister himself said, she is awaiting the Supreme Court's judgment because it is a matter which is, like, a little more meaty and which you can go in and do some bearing. It's just that there's been a little bit of fashion in making bomb threats. Unfortunately, there have also been two this week. We have seen that it is growing year by year that there are more young people who, up to the time of the exam, are making bomb threats to postpone an examination, etc. It must, of course, prove that the penalty framework is not high enough when you feel that you can do those things. What action did the Minister intend to take in order, as in the case of the public, to ensure that the threat of bombs simply has consequences? There's been a little fashion in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153349	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153351	It is an absurd phenomenon, and you do not know whether to laugh or cry. Well, it's a crazy thing to expose other people to. Some people get scared when there's a bomb threat. But just as bad is it that such a Peter and wolf syndrome can occur here, because we get used to the fact that there are bomb threats in which there is nothing, and that is serious in the situation where there would then be a real bomb threat to which the people must be able to respond and to which the authorities must be able to respond professionally. In other words, it is common police and investigation work to find those who are guilty, and then I think it makes sense to let the Attorney General look at whether we cannot get the penalty in the serious cases, because it is serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153433	Is there another question from Mrs Susanne Eilersen? No. Then it's mr. Karsten Nonbo. Sorry for the confusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153442	One is the compensation, i.e. the costs which it may entail for the police, etc. I have to say that it is true that, for example, the Minister for Justice is a little tricky. has said that from now on it doesn't cost anything to have your blood tested when you're caught driving drunk. I thought that was a good source of revenue. But what I wanted the Minister of Justice to confirm was that the court can still sentence a person who has been sentenced to pay compensation to the wrongdoer. Now take the case of Lalandia with their operating losses. In relation to the bomb threats that have been on Odense Railway Station, one can also sentence the culprit to meet the compensation claim from DSB due to their operating losses. That's probably the biggest cost. So can the Minister of Justice confirm that? And then I think we should help each other to ensure that the courts do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153545	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153546	That is true, and that is also what I said before, and this is actually the case in the Lalandia case, where a claim for damages has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153552	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Karsten Nonbo as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153612	Now we have already had a good time in the debate, and I note that again it is a good proposal that has been put forward here. It is a problem that needs to be taken more and more seriously because it is being used more and more. In 2013, according to the inventory I have, 43 threats were made, and last year there were 97. So it's more than doubling, and that's why inflation has gone down in these phone bombs, which most people probably are. It may also be that there are some individual letter bombs in between, and then there is probably not paid postage for them. We have had some serious examples. This is Odense Station. It's Lalandia. There was one at Slagelse Gymnasium, I remember. This is causing a lot of fuss, and it is also to a very, very great disadvantage. We need to take it much more seriously. I'm sure somebody's gonna need a higher sentence. At least some people need a claim for damages, and I'm pretty sure that's very important. But then again, the problem is that many of them do not own the king's coin. Many of them are mentally ill and, as such, poorly punished. But we have to look at this on a case-by-case basis, and that is why we have an individual assessment of each case. However, there are some where the penalty must be tightened up, and then there are some who may need other stricter measures. It is a serious problem and if we do not take it seriously, it will be even more serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153804	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Annette Lind as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153813	The proposal here is about the penalty for making bomb threats. Let me start by stating that we should not accept that people are making bomb threats. The fears and disturbances caused by the threat of bombs are quite unreasonable. This is also the reason why a process has been initiated to test whether the penalty framework can be used more effectively. Against this background, in March 2015, the Process Authorisation Board granted third-party funding to a bomb threat case. A case shall be brought before the Supreme Court on 25 June 2015. Against this background, we Social Democrats will be involved in further discussions on the issue of penalties for bomb threats, but we believe that it is most objective to await the judgment of the Supreme Court, otherwise we risk merely tightening up penalties for the symbol's failure to apply in practice. We must also bear in mind that many of the bomb threats that are being made are posed by mentally ill people and children. It was most recently in the Odense Station case, where a very sick woman put the threat to great inconvenience to passengers and traders. That is why it is not only a debate on punishment but also a discussion on how to better prevent threats from happening. It is not easy, but I just think I would like to mention that it is also an aspect of this discussion. As I have said, we Social Democrats are not opposed to tightening up the penalties for the threat of bombs. However, we will just wait for the matter and the process that has been set in motion for this very purpose. With those words, I would like to say that we Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153946	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507153953	Thank you for the floor, President. I shall be relatively brief, as I share the opinion of the Socialist rapporteur. It's incredibly frustrating for people who get affected by these bomb threats. I personally have a number of acquaintances who were going to the exam, and then there were others who had phoned a bomb threat, and thus their exams, which they had read up to, were canceled as well. So, of course, it is frustrating, and I think we all think so across the parties. We are already looking at whether the penalty for bomb threats in serious cases is at its proper level, and we would like to wait for that work from the radical side. Then it is also a rather delicate affair, as several of the cases are, as such, more of those mentioned in the motion for a resolution are currently being dealt with in the courts, and attempts are being made to test the current level and the current case law. That is why I believe that we should take a rather cautious stand on the part of the Folketing and not influence the work of the courts. It is a little unsuited, and it seems to me, as far as I remember, that it is also regulated by the provisions of the Code of Procedure that one should prefer not to do so. We are willing to discuss this matter again after the Attorney General has completed his case at the Supreme Court, but at this stage we are not prepared for radical legislative changes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154112	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154120	Bomb threats are a serious offence, is it, or a crime? It is serious, it hunts a horror in people's lives, and it costs a lot of money to society when the huge machinery is rolled out to see if there is danger. It's not okay. We have just recently had two bomb threats on the same day, and unfortunately, as has been said here, the trend is increasing. Not least because we have also been living with a terrorist threat for a few years, the authorities have to react as if it is serious every single time. The SF has called for the identity of the perpetrators of the bomb threats to be identified, because it must give us more knowledge of whether it is pranks that are running out of hand or whether it is psychologically ill who are at stake. This is essential if sanctions are to be designed more wisely. Frankly, we do not think that 30 days' imprisonment, which is often given in these cases, is entirely in line with the horrors that people hunt in their lives and the resources that are spent on it. We would therefore like to call on the Minister to do the mapping and to see if there is a need for an adjustment of the level of penalties. However, we cannot vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal that the normal penalty should be one year. That may be where we have to end up, but we think there's a need to do this wisely, and that requires more knowledge of the perpetrators. We are, however, in agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution that we could impose a proportion of the cost on the perpetrators of these threats, but we do think that we should work on a model in which it may only be partially done at very high costs so that we do not ruin the rest of the life of a very young person who does not think about it. SF rejects the proposal, but would like to take part in a debate on how we can do more in this area, because the boring trend must be:
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154307	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154312	In the Enhedslisten, we cannot support this resolution. Overall, we must always consider what an increased penalty can actually mean in order to prevent crime. If all crime could be fixed just by increasing the penalty for a given crime, would it not have been arranged some time ago in this Chamber? That's one part of it. It is unlikely that raising the penalty will have any significance. Secondly, we do not believe in the Enhedslisten that it is Parliament's job to impose in detail on the courts what penalty they should specifically impose for various offences. It is also called minimum sentences. We believe that it is Parliament's job to make legislation and decide what should be criminal and within what framework one should punish for a given crime, but it is up to the courts to assess in concrete terms what the specific situation and concrete action should lead to as a result of punishment. In the comments to the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion write almost a little boldly: a prison sentence of 1 year in prison will send a signal that makes potential offenders think before they break the law. It is probably quite wrong to rethink when it means 1 year in prison instead of perhaps 1⁄2 years. It is also wrong that it will make people think, I think. What characterises people who are making bomb threats to public transport is precisely that they do not think about it before they do so. The proposal also mentions a number of examples, to put it frankly, of some very stupid bomb threats. There are, for example: The man, who in December 2014 in the middle of the Christmas traffic paralyzed Odense Station for 4 hours by threatening to blow up a bomb unless the Prime Minister resigned. This is serious. Moreover, it is also a violation of the penal code and incredibly annoying for the many people who were going back and forth by train. But do the authors of the motion really believe that the bomb threat was a matter of thought on the part of the perpetrator? Had the perpetrator imagined that perhaps the Prime Minister would comply with that requirement and actually resign? Do you think this was an act of a rational thinking being that could have been stopped if there had only been a minimum sentence of one year in prison? I don't think so. In addition, when the perpetrators present such a bomb threat here, they undoubtedly imagine that they are very clever and that the police are somehow unable to trace the mobile phone they are calling from, or the e-mail address they are sending emails from, etc. If they are so convinced that they can't be traced and that they're so clever, it probably doesn't make that much difference whether the penalty is 1 month, 1 year, 10 years or 20 years in prison. Again, I would like to make it clear: there is no indication that there will be a general preventive effect of raising the penalty for bomb threats to public transport. Nor is there any indication that there will be an individual preventive effect on it, and Enhedslisten is fundamentally opposed to the Danish Parliament setting minimum penalties and thus interfering in the work of the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154717	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154721	Thank you. Now it is no surprise that the Enhedslisten has this angle on it and that every time we talk about minimum penalties and penalties at all, we have a political attitude that says: it does not help. It is not punishment that needs to be done, it is something completely different. Actually, we hear that a lot. I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur: what else does Enhedslisten think it is necessary to do so that these bomb threats, the number of which has escalated, are not so popular to put forward any more?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154801	I would like to say, first of all, that the rapporteur is wrong. The Enhedslisten is not generally opposed to the use of punishment, and there are some cases where a high penalty framework can have a preventive effect. This applies in particular to crimes which are organised, planned and well thought out. In the field of financial crime, we believe that the penalties are too low, because they are very, very planned and very carefully carried out forms of crime, weighing punishment and risk to the potential benefits that can be gained from it. Then there are other forms of crime, which are more random, where there is no rational balance, and this applies, for example, to mentally ill people. However, I have not said that it is something entirely, quite different, but in this case, when people who are mentally ill are making bomb threats, it is not something that is fixed with the penal code, it is something that is fixed by treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154902	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154905	I think, however, that I heard the rapporteur say at the outset that she thought that something quite different was needed to prevent these people from making bomb threats, but then I must have heard the rapporteur wrong. However, I would like to know what the rapporteur thinks, if it is that it has not been said, and if you could perhaps say and give some examples of what could help if punishment does not help citizens. And I fully agree that we sometimes talk about mentally ill and others, and we could also mention Kolding Storcenter, where there was a 73-year-old man who was mad at the system, and he wasn't really mentally ill, or what happened last year when there was a young man who hadn't finished his exam and thus laid down a university for one day. So what could help?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507154954	But now it is not the Enhedslisten who has tabled the motion for a resolution, so I am dealing with what lies there and what lies there is a proposal that is always heard from the right, and that is: Hey, there is a problem here, let us raise the penalty. We think that's a bad idea. We do not think that the punishment should be lifted simply because you want to act as a strong politician. But that's fair enough. I fully admit that it is different from person to person what may seem individual-preventive, as they say, in order to prevent such threats being made. Psychiatrically ill people are one thing, being mad at the system is another, and of course there are just no examples that making a minimum penalty would prevent anything from the examples that the rapporteur himself will also give.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155040	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155042	The Enhedslisten only addresses this proposal and does not want to make a suggestion as to what you think should be done about bomb threats, but you just say that this proposal is not good enough. You can get that impression quickly, I hope it's not the case that Enhedslisten doesn't really care and doesn't think anything should be done about this. Then Mrs Pernille Skipper asks such a rather rhetorical question, that is, whether this is a matter of thought and whether you think about what the penalty is. Yeah, I hope so. I think that if you are sitting and trying to telephone a bomb threat where it is now 30 days in prison, which is the penalty, then it has a consequence if it is 1 year, which is the minimum penalty, that is to say it simply discourages people from doing so. Then I just want to ask you a question in the end. You want to punish if it is planned and well thought out, but I do not remember that Enhedslisten has wanted to punish, for example, cable thieves harder. Because it must be said, if anything, to be well planned and well thought out when you steal cables.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155153	Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155155	In fact, I do not even want to merit a comment, that is, because I do not have a game in my back pocket for Mrs Mai Mercado, I do not care about bomb threats. As I was just saying, it is different from person to person, which is why these bomb threats have been put forward, which is why it is also different what we have to do to prevent it and, as I said, there must of course be a penalty. But that's okay, it's on Mrs. Mai Mercado's own account. I would just like to say that I think that Mrs Mai Mercado should stop tabling motions for resolutions on the basis of what she hopes there will be crime prevention, and then I think she should read what is really criminal prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155244	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155248	I do not think it comes as any surprise that the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party take a very different view of both punishment, crime and the fight against crime. Now I said something in the direction of what might be tempted to believe, and I would actually just like to ask it as such a completely open question. If Enhedslisten does not support this resolution, what is Enhedslisten's position on bomb threats? Because we still haven't heard that. And is Enhedslisten satisfied with the 30 days, or do you think that it should have a greater consequence, and that there should be a greater punishment associated with calling in a bomb threat?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155325	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155327	After all, today's penalty is also higher than 30 days in prison, as I remember. And again, of course we care that a bomb threat is being phoned. What kind of question is that? May I be here? It is true that the Conservatives and Enhedslisten look differently at punishment, and that is because Enhedslisten believes that we should use such an intelligent thing where it can actually have a preventative effect. Conservatives tend to table resolutions on higher penalties every time there is a problem in the media that you want to be able to act on. I think that Mrs Mai Mercado should think about the fact that if this resolution goes through, bomb threats to public transport will be penalised more severely than, for example. rape. Is that what the Conservatives really mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155414	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155417	Thank you. The last one was a little cheap, as I know, the Danish People's Party has in any case wanted to raise the penalty for rape many times. We have probably also been voted down there. So it's just like that to tell you that we definitely think that the penalty should also be raised. I'm just wondering what it is The Enhedslisten will exactly in this area, because if you don't want to sharpen the penalties for these bomb threats, then it's for me to see a huge problem in the times we live in, where we just have a fear of terror, you can say, and where we are just very aware that bags, and what do I know, are not being put around. Because the more times it happens that some shout the wolf comes without it coming, it is not taken seriously at the moment that something is actually serious. This has something to do with prevention, of course, with my eyes. So what is it that Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Enhedslisten would like if we were to prevent these bomb threats that are completely out in the fence?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155517	I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is a huge problem. Because if you get used to something like that or have experienced that a bomb threat was nothing at all in reality, then suddenly we can start getting used to it and then not react if there is really cause for concern. So I fully agree with that view and that is an important argument in the debate. It just doesn't mean that an increased criminal framework, and certainly not a minimum penalty, should be an expression of preventing such bomb threats... I'm sorry, I just lost the thread for a moment. I still have time. I'm sorry. I think there is something that can be done, for example. mentally ill, of which we have seen an example. It's a psychiatric question. There is some social prevention. And then, of course, there are also some people, which has also been mentioned today, who are angry at the system and are doing something like this. But it is not an expression of a rational person who makes a rational decision, and therefore I do not believe that a minimum penalty, as opposed to a penalty of one year, would change their stupid decision to call in a threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155646	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155648	That is where the disagreement arises. Because if you take this example that Mrs Susanne Eilersen had with the university student who was late for an examination, then you have to assume that he is not mentally ill and is rationally thinking and therefore might think again if he knew that if this is discovered you will get one year in the cachot, which I think is quite reasonable. Then there is another thing: if you are mentally ill, Mrs Pernille Skipper knows very well that you will not get the same punishment as if you are a normal person, I would say if you can use that expression. Then there are quite a few other considerations that are being taken into account, and Mrs Pernille Skipper knows that too. So that's a bad example.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155731	No, it isn't, because it doesn't always know mental illness when they do an act. It's not like that, and that's what's my point... that you sit down and think about wondering if I shouldn't do this, because I just heard that they've set the penalty up to a minimum of 1 year instead of a maximum of 1 year. So it is a question of whether a rational decision is taken that high penalties have a preventive effect. That's what this is all about, so if a higher penalty can mean that you don't call in like this. I would say, as far as university graduates are concerned, that I do not think he has thought in any way. I'm out of time. But that's one part of it. The second part is that we are against minimum penalties in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155819	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507155823	Thank you. Regardless of disagreements, the fact is that in 2014 we had the highest number of bomb threats since 2008, and this could suggest that there is therefore a discrepancy between the fact that people are doing such an attack on public order and the movement of people, and so what can prevent it. It is in this light that this proposal has to be seen, because it is strange that there is a penalty of up to six years in prison, yet the average is 30 days in order to exercise something that both paralyzes traffic and disturbs a large number of people. Parliament's task is therefore to legislate and thus send a signal to the legal system about what our expectations are. It can be said that there is really enough room within the current legislation for the penal framework to be used more to counteract or prevent it. This has obviously not happened, and that is why this is just as much a political signal, because it is not the Folketing that decides how much punishment should be given in the specific situation, but it is a signal that, as we see developments and as we see the relationship between the punishment given and the punishment that is possible to give, there is a discrepancy. Therefore, the signal from the Folketing on the day this is adopted here is that the legal system must be aware that the Folketing has a different desire for what is being implemented. Then we'll see where it lands. In any case, there is now a discrepancy which should be addressed or reflected in this resolution. We are co-sponsors, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160014	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as rapporteur for the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160025	The other day I was in Odense at a meeting at Odense Cathedral School, and the other debaters at the debate were delayed because of a bomb threat to Odense Station. This is not the first time that bomb threats have been phoned in Odense. Bilka has also been hit by a bomb threat in January this year, which closed the shopping centre for 61⁄2 hours. These bomb threats both cause disruption to public transport and cause great inconvenience to many. Bomb threats must be taken seriously and we believe it is untenable that we can see that the penalty that is being measured is about 30 days. It must therefore have greater consequences when it comes to making a bomb threat. That is why we want the standard penalty level to be at least one year's unconditional imprisonment. It'll keep a lot of people from doing these pranks if it has a serious consequence. That is why it is also important for the level of penalties to be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160127	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160142	Thank you for that, President. We thank you for a good debate. Perhaps we would have liked a little more positive tactics on the part of the government parties, but yet we have been given the prospect of an evaluation of this Supreme Court ruling, which is now to be imposed in connection with the Lalandia bombing threat this summer, and we look forward to it in committee. There have been bomb threats in many places in recent years. Odense Station has been mentioned and Kolding Storcenter on 21 December • the very fastest time where shops had to shut down most of a day. It cost a lot of money. Aarhus University has had bomb threats several times in the last 2-3 years. I am very familiar with this, since I have a son who goes there, so I know that it is a great nuisance, even when they are going to the exam. We are also well aware that there is a difference between the people who are calling in with these bomb threats and, as has already been mentioned, mentally ill citizens are treated according to a completely different paragraph, and of course they must. But although the vast majority of bomb threats have fortunately proved false, it can simply become like Peter and the wolf when you have these threats, especially in these times of terror and other things where we turn around and look on the train when we're out driving with it, to see if there's still a suitcase up in the net when its owner has gone out etc. etc. There are also cases of people who have to transport things by train, and then they are stopped. There are incredibly high socio-economic costs associated with this. There are also personal costs, as people can become insecure when they hear about such a bomb threat, and the punishment of the 30 days in prison does not reflect that fact at all. The figures show that the number of bomb threats is increasing, that it is a major and steadily increasing problem, and the penalty framework has not been followed. That is why we hope that, following this statement, which will make us a little more aware of what the penal framework could be, we may be able to take the matter up again in committee and that, after a parliamentary election, we might have the opportunity to obtain a majority in favour of it. There is much evidence of this. However, we thank you for a good debate on such an important and serious subject, and then we wait in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160428	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160440	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160505	It has to be said that we are going a long way around today in dealing with these many different matters. Now we are jumping from begging and bombing threats, residual penalties and Eurodac regulations to road safety, and it is precisely road safety that should be the focus of the discussion on the next issue. I want to say very, very clearly that I do not have a politically-ideological attitude as to where the speed limits should be in this country. I'm preoccupied with one thing, and it's road safety. We have too many victims on the Danish roads, not least our roads, and we always have a special regard for the vulnerable road users. That's why drivers have to drive properly, and part of driving properly is not driving too fast, because it's speed that kills. I am happy to inform the part of the waiting summer people who have caravans that we have just decided to set the limit for caravan driving so that we are now introducing a Tempo 100 scheme. I think that is something many campers have been looking forward to with pleasure. It is a good thing that we are doing this now, so that we can be allowed to leave at a faster speed than in the past to the campsites this spring and during the summer months. And that is one of the points addressed in the motion for a resolution here. The next question is how fast road and motorway roads need to be driven. As the authors have said, it is true that we have had some experiments with differentiated speed limits. It is also important for me to say that the experiments have just taken place on what is called safe roads and on some specially selected roads where the accident rate has already been low and where it is assessed that the road is suitable for driving at higher speeds. The experiments carried out by the Road Directorate show that the increase in the speed limit on these special sections has led to a reduction in the speed spread on the roads so that cars generally travel at a more uniform speed which is close to the speed limit. It is not yet possible to say whether the higher speed limits have led to fewer or more accidents, and this is, in fact, a fairly important issue ■ because no real assessment of the accident figures and the road safety consequences of the experiment has been made. The final report on the experiment is expected to be ready here during 2015. Against this background, I think it is too early to say whether we should generally raise the speed limits, but I would also like to say that there is no ideological resistance on my part to raising or lowering the limits; it must only be a question of road safety. Then there's that part of the proposal, which is about ATK and the use of starling boxes. After all, it is a question that the Folketing has spent a great deal of time on already. The decision to introduce ATK cars rather than starling boxes is based on a thorough analysis and professional assessment by the National Police. Here was the assessment that it would be more expensive to use the starling boxes, it would be more complicated and it would take several years to implement. And that is why automatic traffic control has been introduced instead. It is clear that we must always have a critical eye on whether ATK cars work properly, but it goes without saying that we will not, of course, be able to do away with them when we have just introduced them. Overall, we cannot support the proposal, although on some of the lines we can say, when it comes to traffic, we are not so far apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160900	Thank you. There's a question. Sir. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160904	I agree with the Minister for Justice that we're getting around a lot. We're both gonna whistle and stalk before we're done here. I have a question for the Minister of Justice, but I'd like to sign for us to do it with the caravans. But as far as ATK cars are concerned, I would like to say that, to my satisfaction, I believe that I have heard it, but I would like to have it confirmed that the Minister of Justice is working on the fact that it does not necessarily have to be policemen manning them. I think it might as well be some with a slightly shorter education, a 3-4 year in the police field. I think it can be done on a course of one week or something like that. I just want confirmation that what I've heard is also in line with what the Minister of Justice thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160949	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507160950	I can confirm that. It is clear that it always depends on a police assessment by the National Police, how we use our police officers best, but in a situation where Denmark has been hit by a terrorist attack and where, in the light of yesterday's evaluation, we can see that at least as far as my eye is concerned, we will need a different response than in the past, I am very concerned about releasing police resources for the essential and important police tasks. Traffic control is important, but I agree with the questioner that other groups can handle it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161023	Sir. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161024	Thank you. I'm glad. I think the Minister of Justice agrees with me. Instead of putting a cop in a van, I guess it was better for him to keep on a police bike right next door, because then he could replace both those who are drunk and those who come in a stolen car, and then the aliens we can't take. So everything else straight there was also an advantage there, but I just want to thank you for the answer I got.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161050	Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161052	I would also like to accommodate the Minister of Justice with regard to the proposal to remove the police officers from the photocars. This has been a conservative matter for a very long time. We think that this is the wrong use of resources. And I will also sign for the announcement by the Minister of Justice that we need more policemen on the streets and streets. I'd probably move them out of the road and into the cities on the streets and walks to solve and investigate, apprehend perpetrators and have them punished for the wrongdoing that is. We know that police are missing everywhere, so if this is a signal that it could happen in the near future, then there is great support from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161133	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161134	Yesterday the National Police presented a thorough, serious and comprehensive evaluation of the terrorist attack against Copenhagen, and one of the things that emerges from the evaluation is that we must expect that we are in a new situation as far as the Danish police are concerned, and this also relates to our preparedness, including guarding tasks. That is why we are going to have some difficult discussions over the coming years on how to ensure that we have a police force geared both to it, but also to all other forms of crime prevention. The area of transit remains an important police area because it costs lives out there if the law and rules are not respected. The National Police Department is preparing for a major admission to the police school and, as I said in my exchange of views with Mr. Karsten Nonbo, the National Police Department is also working to allocate our important police resources to the most important police tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161234	Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161236	I am delighted to hear that the Minister of Justice now also has the same view after the report. At least it's equal. After all, we have been drumming for this for a long time, because our police sources have been telling us for a year or more about the challenges and the lack of policemen to move out when disaster situations and terrorist acts arise. We saw it by February at the latest, when it was completely unveiled. That is what the Minister referred to yesterday. I think it is excellent that we are given more resources to the police. We have proposed 500 million. kr. Just for a start. Well, the minister kicks in an open door. That's what we have to do. We have also proposed in this motion for a resolution that, as an alternative to the photocars, we can set up the so-called starling boxes, and you can even set them up as mobile units so that you can move them around the landscape, and then they actually do exactly the same thing as the photocars do, and then you start there already with approx. 100 policemen you can put out on the streets and alleys. So let's get more of that. It doesn't solve it alone, but it's a step along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161335	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161336	I'd like to warn you about this thesis that our police should just be on the streets and alleys. Well, modern professional police work is so much more than being on the streets and alleys. If the questioner's statement here contained a more general criticism of the police's efforts in connection with the terrorist attack, I disagree. I mean, and I have done this all the way through, that it was an exceptionally good police work. We have a skilful Danish police force, which in recent years has been able and able to get it paid off not only by the police, but also by the police, the crime in Denmark. Look at the burglar numbers, just look at the numbers of juvenile delinquency. But we can be even better, and it is clear that, in the light of the attack in Copenhagen, we will have to deal more structurally with how we use police resources better.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161432	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161434	The Minister of Justice says that modern police work is so much more than just being present. It's perfectly logical that the police do many, many more things. I have no doubt about that at all. However, what I would like to ask is whether the Minister of Justice also believes that the fact that there are police on the streets and streets has a preventive effect, that is to say, that it acts preventively in relation to driving too fast, but also in relation to burglary, theft, what I know, begging. There have been many issues on today's agenda, so we can take some of these examples. The fact that there are police on the streets is a preventive measure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161512	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161513	One of the things I, as the country's Minister of Justice, am most happy about, is the Danes' desire to see more police, because in most other communities on this globe, the population has a fundamentally different view and often also some very different experiences with their police. In Denmark it is different. We trust them. There is reason to have that in the vast majority of cases. We have both a skilful, professional and empathetic police force, and wherever I come forward, I am in fact almost always met by the same thing: a desire for more police: in our nightlife, in the streets and streets, as the Conservative rapporteur said, in the control of foreigners, in the fight against forced entry and, above all, in the presence in our vulnerable residential areas, where there is a desire among many children and young people and their parents for a police presence to prevent crime, but also, of course, for the police to respond. This is an incredibly good starting point for police work, and that is why, of course, we are constantly working to find the right balance between the effective police, which is not always visible, but which can nevertheless be effective, and so the security-building and therefore preventive police. That balancing point will always be difficult to find. I also believe that some of what we are going to spend a lot of time on in a future multi-year agreement is getting a little closer to what the right balance point is, because the police must be present.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161634	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161636	I'm really glad to hear that the Minister of Justice thinks that too. When I ask a little bit about it, it's because, especially with these purchases of photocars, I can get this feeling that it's been a money machine, especially because the government has budgeted with these just under 600 million. kr. in the state treasury from speed checks, and perhaps that is why, instead of it being preventive, it was precisely by having stark boxes at schools, for example. or something where it is really important that people do not drive too fast, that is to say have invested in these cars, which then also have to provide income to the state, and I just think that is a little regrettable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161716	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161717	In other words, I would like to emphasise that speed checks must be where it makes the most sense, and it can be meaningful from where there are many accidents, where there are many deaths, but there may also be some consideration for vulnerable road users. This applies, of course, not least to schools and other places where many of our children either walk or cycle. There must never be any consideration in the organisation of police work other than the fight against crime or any other violation of our legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161747	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we turn to the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507161809	The proposal here involves amendments to the Road Traffic Code so as to increase the speed limits for a number of vehicles and on roads in general. In addition, the proposers want to return the purchased photocars and instead launch the use of unmanned mobile star-boxes. Let me start by stating that, in the light of thorough considerations, the government has decided to raise the speed limit on motorways for caravans which meet a number of specific technical conditions. It is pleasing to the many caravan owners who enjoy the summerland each year with the car strapped to the car. Having said that, I would like to remind you that two out of three road accidents are taking place today on roads and that speed is causing about half of the accidents. So now is not the time to gamble with road safety. We Social Democrats want even fewer people to be killed on the Danish roads, and that is why we should not generally speed up the pace. Too many people are already unable to comply with the permitted speed limits and are therefore putting their own lives and those of others at risk. That brings me to the part of the proposal that deals with photocarts versus starling boxes. Let me remind you that this is a resolution that a significant majority of the Danish Parliament's parties are behind, including the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives and the Left. I would also like to remind you that the Council for Safe Transport points out that photocars are the best solution for reducing the speed of Danes, and that is not insignificant. We Social Democrats are happy to discuss the manning of photocars in the context of a future multiannual agreement for the police, just as the Minister of Justice has just said. But we will not do away with the equipment that ensures that fewer people are killed in traffic. We want fewer people to get hurt on the roads. With those words, I would like to say that the Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162000	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162006	Thank you. Normally I am not concerned with road safety, but with our rapporteur, Mr President. Kim Christiansen, cannot be present, I have undertaken to try to be wise on this matter. It is the case that the proposal is that on a highway, where it makes sense, we will speed up to 90 km/h. and on motorway roads up to 100 km/h. This is not a desire for more people to be injured in traffic, but it is an attempt to say that where it makes sense, where people still do, when you get into the real world, drive a little faster than they really have to, also gives them the opportunity to do so, without it being seen as an expression that we are just saying free speed. It is just as important to understand that when you speed up some places where it makes sense and where the Danes think it is right, we also teach them to respect the places where the speed has been lowered, because that makes sense. But if you can't see one, you don't necessarily respect the other. And I think that's important to point out. As far as motorways are concerned, we have a proposal that cars with caravans should be able to drive 100 km/h. I understand that the government has also made that proposal here a few days ago. That is quite excellent, and I would like to sign for it. I would like to say that I also hope that the government will go along with the fact that there are cars riding with trailers. I don't know if that's part of it. It may be my ignorance that applies here, but I think it is important to point out that when you drive on a motorway to avoid the fact that the many caravans that come here in summer traffic are going to overtake the cars with trailers and then bother all of them in the raceway, it would be really, really smart, I think, that those who drive in the right lane are going at about the same speed. In fact, the Minister himself said in his speech that on the routes where people travel at fairly smooth speeds, there are fewer delays. Everything else must also give rise to fewer dangerous situations. That's gotta be it. I would also like to say something about the starling boxes, which have been replaced. There was an experiment with starling boxes, and in my optics it was at least considered successful in the evaluation in that the places where starling boxes had been set up dropped the speed. It is precisely an attempt to bring down the speed at places where it makes sense. Now you've bought these photo cars. It has been budgeted for an income in the Treasury of this barely 600 million. kr. a year, and I just think it might be a little easy for the Minister to say that control should be where it makes the most sense, bearing in mind that in the study that has been carried out, it emerged that less than 2%. Of these checks, they're at schools. I would say that one Monday night, when I was driving from Jutland, I came by Copenhagen at 8:00. 21 on a stretch where you can normally drive 60 km/h. There is a very short distance at a school where you can drive 50 km/h. That makes sense, and fortunately I also kept to the speed limit. There was control at 2:00 a.m. 9 in the evening. Now it is not because I think it is wrong to stick to a school, but it may not be right at that time that there are most children. So why you keep there at the time, I don't know. I think it's weird that less than 2%. of the control there is at schools. This simply does not make sense, because it is precisely our children that we must be careful. I think it is a little strange that we will not support the proposal, knowing that some of it is going to come into being after all. But I would also appeal to the Minister to look precisely at cars with trailers, because then the caravans will be spared from overtaking these cars with trailers on the motorways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162414	There's a question. Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162416	Thank you for your positive statement on the proposal. I can tell you that it is also the idea and part of the motion for a resolution that trailers should also be included, if they are approved and sighted, according to the same rules as in Germany. There are a number of details. But it was just to clarify that point. The rapporteur, Mrs Pia Adelsteen, is, of course, quite right in saying that it is appropriate to include it. Part of it is both caravans and trailers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162445	Thank you. May I not just say that I knew that, because the Danish People's Party is involved in making the proposal, so I was well aware of what we have put forward as a proposal. My appeal is more to the Minister and the Minister's proposals, because I do not really know whether these trailers are included. But that's a small detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162502	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162510	Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, such a proposal with a number of elements that are being put forward here. In general terms, it can be said that we Radicals want to be involved in discussing several elements, but we cannot support the proposal as a whole, as there are elements that we are not positive about. In other words, we are open to raising the speed limits when it can be defended in relation to road safety. That is why we are closely following the radical developments and attempts in this area, including, for example, whether or not we are following them. can speed up on certain safe road sections. We would like to continue working on this in the years to come as long as road safety glasses are safe. We would also like to look at the limits of the various vehicles. It's not such a sacred cow to us. This is something we would like to take a look at regularly, even as the vehicles develop. We have just proposed raising the speed limits for certain types of caravans, the so-called Tempo 100 caravans, as it is estimated that it is certain that they are going faster than they have done so far. However, the other vessels in the proposal are not ready to speed up at this stage. In the case of automatic traffic control, also known as ATK, we are open to discussing, for example, whether or not it is possible. In the long term, we must use the ATK as a supplement to the ATK vehicles we already have today. In my view, this has many advantages, since, rather than measuring at each point, a whole stretch is taken into account. As the Minister said, we are currently experimenting with stretch ATTK, and if the results are good for that and there can be funding to set up stretch ATTK, then we will be willing to discuss whether it should not be a supplement to our ATK cars. So I think, when you look down on the proposal, that you see a number of good tactics, but we do not agree with the very concrete models that are being proposed. That is why we cannot support the proposal as a whole, but I think that many of the bids put forward in this motion for a resolution are excellent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162723	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162736	We would like to recognise the positive intention behind the proposal in principle, namely to have more flexible traffic flow and to save lives, by means of speed controls being reduced to dangerous places in traffic. The first part of the proposal, which, overall, is about raising speed limits, we in the SF are sceptical about. High speed on country and motorway roads will mean more accidents and, above all, more fatal accidents. We therefore believe that we should listen to the director of the Safe Transport Council, who clearly states that speed is the decisive or contributory cause of half the accidents on the roads. If we want to achieve the Road Safety Commission's goal of halving the number of people killed and seriously injured, it therefore seems totally contradictory to raise the speed limits. On the second part of the proposal, we would say that we are naturally looking forward to an evaluation, but as a starting point we insist that speed limits should not rise on roads, motorways or other roads mentioned in the proposal. Apart from the fact that higher speeds cause more accidents, most of the roads are not built to handle higher speeds. With regard to the third part of the proposal, we point out that both Danish and foreign studies show that police-managed photocars are incredibly effective at reducing speed, and that is precisely the purpose of speed control, namely to slow down speed, so that the number of accidents falls. I don't mean to raise money for the Treasury. Moreover, experience with the starling boxes also shows us that they are often subjected to devastating vandalism, which is why they are often out of service. The SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162915	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507162921	With a degree of regularity, which is a better cause, proposals are made to raise the speed limits, and the arguments are always the same, among other things. road safety considerations. But it's the speed that kills, and how many times have we heard? That is a fact, but we still have to hear from the right again and again, and unfortunately the government is also bowing from time to time to the fact that an increase in speed is being made in the interests of road safety. Higher speed also increases the risk of accidents and results in accidents actually occurring becoming more violent with more dead and injured as a result. In our view, this proposal, like the many other proposals on increased speeds on the roads, will help to compromise the developments we have seen at home with a decreasing number of people killed and injured. The proposers will increase speed by 10 km/h. on roads and motorways. These are some of the most unhappy roads. In this context, it is pointed out that the adaptation of speed to specific conditions will lead to a general strengthening of traffic standards, as they are called, and the will to respect sensible speed rules, as they say. It is then these rather airy concepts that should increase road safety. The government, and it is supported by Enhedslisten, has decided to increase the control pressure in connection with the speed control. The 75 new photocars that have arrived will help drivers to comply with the speed limits as they are now. We therefore believe that this will have an effect rather than a strengthening of traffic standards and will, as this proposal points out. That is why we say: let us now look at the results of the increased control pressure. We have no doubt that it will lead to increased road safety when we as a driver have to assume that there is a risk of actually being discovered, unlike in the past, where that risk was only very rarely taken. The proposers' faith in this airy sense of responsibility, will, morality, etc. the motorists even go so far as to believe that when the speed of motorists with caravans and trailers can be raised to 100 km/h. on motorways, drivers will be motivated to similarly also suddenly load and cover their trailers better than they do today. Nor is the proposal that electric bicycles be allowed to drive 30 km/h. is really well thought out. The Road Directorate's studies from winter 2014 show that they are relatively involved in far too many accidents and that it is especially older people who are injured. And if you allow a speed of 30 km/h, many e-bike drivers may be tempted to believe that it will also be safe to drive at that speed. When you let young people drive on a moped, they are sent on a moped course before. Is that also what the proposers are thinking about in this situation if you are to be able to drive 30 km/h? On an e-bike? The Enhedslisten only agrees with the proposers on one thing, and that is that speeding tickets must never be charged just to fill the treasury. The aim must, of course, be to reduce the number of road accidents. But then the agreement ends, too, because we would like to give the police more tools to ensure that speed limits are respected. It is both with stationary starling boxes, stretch-ATKs, as they are called, removable signs and photocars. One does not exclude the other. The proposal to return the photocars already purchased to the manufacturers does not seem to be something to take seriously. The economic loss of doing so is at least also something that the proposers have so far kept to themselves. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507163332	There is one question from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt or is it a mistake? It's a fehler). Okay, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507163355	Thank you. This is a good proposal, so we would like to pay tribute to all the authors of the motion for a resolution. That is common sense, because the speed increases that have been have not produced bad results. It is, of course, the case that we have some speed limits which are very difficult to comply with. When you drive on long, straight lines, it's kind of utopia to imagine that 80 km/h. should be the most secure from the point of view of safety. This kind of thing must be adapted to our car park, which has become much more roadworthy and more suited to speed than that which was a number of years ago, and therefore it is common sense to change it here. So we fully support the proposals here. Then there is the second part of the proposal on photocars. It has to be said that this has become a little wild west. At least in the region where I come from, these photocars are hiding trees and shrubs, and there have even been examples that they have to be picked up by Falck because they get stuck in the ditch to get out so far that no one can detect them. This means that a number of dangers are passed and then they receive a giro card, and that is certainly something that increases road safety, I must promise. It is only a pure money machine when you keep there on straight stretches where you can barely hide. So it's time to change it, if otherwise the idea was to increase road safety. But now I remember when we were discussing it at first. Already then, the Finance Minister budgeted with an income of 600 million. kr., before there was even one photo car on the road, so it was not an attempt to increase road safety, it was an attempt to increase the treasury, and I assume that we can all agree that this should never be the purpose. For that reason alone, it is appropriate to pull the cops out of these wagons that are hiding and then put them to some meaningful work for the citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507163607	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth, Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507163611	Thank you, sir. President. After all, this is an excellent proposal that we are debating today. We think it is a very good idea to have harmonised speeds more than they are today, rather than the stop-start effect that can be. After all, it is a question of four concrete measures which allow for a general speed for passenger cars and motorcycles of 90 km/h on the road. Then it can be so to take safety into account that if there are areas that cannot carry that speed, then you can separate the speed down. On the expressway, a speed of 100 km/h is then generally allowed. At the same time, caravans, mobile homes and trailers are allowed to drive 100 km/h. On the freeway. This requires that the vehicle is approved and sighted. There are also some details that if there is read, it should be with high sides, or there should be a tarp on so that goods do not fall off • unfortunately you see quite a lot of it. With regard to trucks driving in denser built-up areas where there is a general speed limit of 50 km/h and where it is signposted up to, for example, 60 km/h. or 70 km/h, then the trucks today are not allowed to follow that speed up. Here we then give the opportunity to follow the other road users and drive 60 km/h. or 70 km/h if the sign indicates the speed allowed. Then there are the tractors where you allow a higher speed, now up to 40 km/h. It's still not much, but you raise it from 30 km/h. 40 km/h. And for electric bicycles, the speed is raised by 5 km from 25 km/h. 30 km/h. Then dangerous situations arise. Now we are standardising the speeds and, of course, we have no expectation that this will increase the risk of accidents and injuries and road deaths. Then we would not have proposed it. Then there is the second part of the proposal that the government should at the same time investigate whether the expensive and police-resource-intensive photocars can be replaced by so-called stark boxes, i.e. an automatic speed check. We have proposed that they be made mobile, that is to say they are mounted on a trailer or the like, so that they can be moved around and placed where it is known that it is dangerous to move, so that something is done about the places where we see many accidents. It is by the way after the Swedish model; there you have seen that it works, so why not copy it. Then I would like to finish by saying that we had a general discussion I had with the Minister for Justice when the Minister for Justice from the platform presented the police resources. The Minister of Justice then took the opportunity, at the end of which I cannot answer any more, to say that she was then satisfied with the efforts of the police, and she implied indirectly that it was not the Conservative People's Party. All I have to say to the Minister for Justice is that there is no party more in favour of and more in favour of the police force than the Conservative People's Party. Some people are close, but I think we have a leading role. We believe that we must do more at all times to have an effective police force. We don't think the Justice Minister has lived up to that. We don't think the government has lived up to that. We have been pointing out for a long time that there was a need for more resources, and we also think that the police officers who were have done the excellent job of virtually everyone. There are mistakes in several places. The report, which was presented yesterday, says that it was too late that there were not enough policemen, that the synagogue was late in Krystalgade. There are also doubts about the way the weapons were served. You weren't trained and trained for the job. It wasn't the policemen's fault. It is because not enough resources have been given to the police by the Danish Parliament, so that there are still enough policemen available, that they are trained and trained for the task, that they have the equipment needed to match the criminals who are. And that would be a good thing for me if the government could get a little out of their shoes and get what it takes to get that police force and give the policemen proper conditions to carry out the task they so excellently carry out, but for lack of resources it cannot do quite satisfactorily. These were the words of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507164035	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Nonbo, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507164049	Now Mr. Mike Legarth, that it was an excellent proposal, and not that Mr. Mike Legarth must be in doubt, I would say that Mr. Mike Legarth himself is a co-author. He was not fully aware that the Danish People's Party was. Then it's settled. I think that is what I call under-emphasised caution when Mrs Pia Adelsteen says that she does not know much about it. That was an excellent speech, I would say, but perhaps it was because Mrs Pia Adelsteen does not understand it. But I do not think it was an excellent speech, and that is why, instead of repeating what has been said here by Mr Seligman, I should like to repeat what has been said here. Mike Legarth, who went through it so well, well sign for some of the statements that have been made. I would like to confide to the Minister for Justice, if it can be between us, that I have actually felt easier with these proposals with the Social Democratic Minister for Justice than I had with the bourgeois Minister for Justice at the time. I remember what battle we had to raise the speed of motorways from 110 km/h. to 130 km/h. Well, it started out with us getting 20%. Over in Jutland. And I also remember what kind of struggle we had with the bourgeois to get differentiated speeds on the roads. That is why it is good to be able to see that we can work together. I also remember thanking Morten Bødskov when we introduced Tempo 100 buses. Now we are introducing Tempo 100 caravans, and I would like to say straight away that I would also like to see us doing it with trailers. That is why I would like to say that there was a misunderstanding on the part of Pernille Skipper, and I actually understand that, because it says in two places that in this resolution it is a requirement if you want to drive 100 km/h. with a trailer that it is either closed, that it is covered or that it is empty. So it's a requirement. It's not like it's voluntary. I know it is further down in the motion for a resolution that it will motivate people, but it will also in that way have them read, and if they have the cover anyway, they will also wear it even if they do not drive 100 km/h. But I want to say straight away that this resolution is not due to the fact that we just want to drive stronger. No, the general point is that we want to make speed limits credible. That is what happened on the motorways when we raised the border from 110 km/h. to 130 km/h. I remember that at that time, it was 2005 when we had 110 km/h. as a speed limit, there were not less than 30 but about 40 fatal accidents per year. When we saw in 2005, the border was raised to 130 km/h., we got a more quiet traffic. In fact, the number of people killed on motorways fell to 20 and below a year, and for many years thereafter it was never more than 20. One year it was down to 12. I think it has something to do with the fact that now it was believable and that people found a more calm rhythm. That was a good result. I also remember, as I mentioned, the struggle for differentiated speeds, even though it was already stated in the Road Traffic Act that it was possible to do so. An example is from where I live, around Næstved. There's a ring road where there's an animal fence around. There are no bike paths, you can see 3 km away, i.e. it's pretty much like a tunnel pipe. I used that as an example, but it was no and no at first. When I then allowed myself to ask what, by the way, the average speed was now and how many accidents had occurred in the last five years, it was found that the average speed was 93 km/h and that there had been no accidents in the last five years. There have still been no accidents and the speed has been set at 90 km/h. So it is more a question of credible speed limits than it is a question of just driving stronger and stronger. I think it is precisely with credible speed limits that when you break down, people say: okay, there must be a special reason, so that we keep to that. And that is what will be done on motorway roads. You know the terms of an expressway. It is precisely that there are no access routes and that there is no other way of getting on the road. The speed can be about 100 km/h. There's another story, too. It is true that the vast majority of accidents occur on roads. And the vast majority of fatal accidents happen on roads, yes, that is correct. However, we do not say how many of these fatal accidents occur at a speed of between 80 km/h. and 90 km/h. I was excited about that, too, but no, they happen at a speed of 110 km/h. to 140 km/h. That's what's happening. This is used as an argument for not wanting to increase speed by 10 km/h, and it is once again unbelievable. It's something you sneak out because you'd probably rather be against it than think about it. We need to think about this, because then we can get credible speed limits and people will keep them. So the argument that there are many accidents on the roads, I would have liked to make it clear: yes, but what is the speed of those many road accidents? And there I'm afraid it's much, much taller. I am also pleased with the other statements that have been made. It is true, as Mrs Pia Adelsteen says, that speed checks must also be a little more credible, understood in the sense that they are kept out in front of a school at 8 a.m. 21.00, I would say that you cannot be familiar with yourself unless there is evening school. But we also have to deal with that in another way. Again I would say that differentiated speeds with digital signs that allow speed up and down to be separated also mean that we will have more credible speed limits. That is more what it is about than just driving everything too fast. With regard to the second part of the proposal with the 100 photocars, I would like to say that I think it may be problematic to have them sent back. But I can at least say that it is not something that will hopefully get a bourgeois government to buy new ones from. Because even if I feel bad about saying that in Sweden they are better than we are, in fact, in this case in Sweden the so-called mobile starling boxes, i.e. pure trailers, which are unmanned and which you can drive around with and set up relevant places, have been set up. They don't require any crew. They do not really require a break for dinner either. They don't just require an 8-hour working day. They can actually stand there much, much longer. And that's why it would be smart if they stood at the school where you differentiated the speed with a digital sign so that they could always take people when they drive too fast, if they drive more than 50 km/h., when there are school pupils, or if they drive at 80 km/h., or what do I know at some point in the evening, at 8 a.m. 9:00 p.m. That would give much more common sense. To my surprise, when we were over to visit them in Gothenburg, they said that they actually don't have vandalism on these unmanned mobile starling boxes. I am actually wondering, but then I would say that the last argument for using what we use in Denmark is that the cop who sits in the back of the photocar is really only sitting here to keep an eye on whether vandalism is being committed against the car. Because the device photographes itself, and once he has set it up, he can sit back safely. He only has to keep an eye on the fact that it continues to photograph. As I said at the outset to the Minister for Justice: he would actually do good if he sat on a motorcycle right in front of the ACT car, because then he could drive for the one who didn't have license plates on it. He could go after the drunk. He could go after the guy who stole a car or he could go after the foreigner from whom we'll never get the money back. On the specific speed limits, I will then again sign to the Minister for Justice for us to have Tempo 100 caravans. I'd like us to have Tempo 100 trailers, too. Otherwise, I would say that if that is what separates us, then we can drop it by saying that the limit for electric bicycles should rise from 25 km/h. 30 km/h. However, I would also like to say that we are one of three countries out of the 28 EU countries with a border of 30 km/h. for tractors. The rest of the countries have a minimum of 40 km/h. for tractors, and that is really what many tractors are driving. I met someone who told me that he had gotten a clip on his driver's license while driving his tractor because he was measured at 40 km/h when he was driving a sweeper. But that's his problem until we get this changed. But thanks for the good response. I think there was a very good feature, and I can tell Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen says his party colleague Andreas Steenberg would like 90 km/h. on the road. At least he said that to Politiken on 14 March this year. I also heard many good openings from Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen. But again, this isn't just about driving stronger. It is a question of obtaining credible speed limits, which in turn will be respected. And if they're not respected, I don't mind a strike.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165051	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165105	The debate is open. The first is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165125	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. It goes without saying that the freedom of expression of public employees is a very, very important issue. It is essential to have a well-functioning democracy and a well-functioning public sector that our public employees have their freedom of expression, use their freedom of expression, and we are also dependent on making mistakes, and if there are things that need to be brought to light, then there are some who bring them forward. That is why it is also important that public employees feel secure in terms of being able to take part in the debate. You know, security is in this context that you shouldn't fear for your work and your possible career. As the proposers are well aware, in 2013 the government set up a committee to look at the ability of public employees to express themselves and to look at freedom of expression at all. The Committee was also asked to examine the need to establish a whistleblower scheme in the public administration. It has not been so long since the committee presented its report. As far as a whistleblower scheme is concerned, the committee has of course considered that general legislation should not be implemented. The report as a whole has now been sent in consultation to a wide range of both authorities and organisations with a deadline here at the beginning of June. I would like to respect that consultation phase and await further discussion from it. We cannot support this motion for a resolution, and this is not just a matter of waiting for what might come up with consultation responses in relation to the more general whistleblower and freedom of expression debate, because this specifically concerns our intelligence services. To this I would say that PET is, fortunately, subject to scrutiny by a number of sides, and the control bodies we have can also deal with at least some of the requests from the employees. As you know, PET is under the supervision of the intelligence services, which check that PET processes data in accordance with the law. The supervision may, on its own initiative or following complaints, ensure that PET complies with the law. It can, for example, be done. be in cases of disclosure of information to foreign intelligence services or unauthorised collection of information. Special Branch staff may also complain to the supervisory board. PET is also subject to control by the Danish Parliament's own Ombudsman and the independent Police Prosecutor's Office. Special Branch staff will be able to complain, both in relation to the Ombudsman and the police prosecutor, about possible breaches of rules committed by the secret service. This means that there are already a number of control bodies to which PET staff can go if there is information to be provided. In addition, I would like to say a few words about the part of the proposal which concerns the fact that supervision is to be required once a year to appear before the Control Committee. To this I would like to say that we in the government regard supervision as an independent authority, which is neither subject to instructions from me as Minister of Justice nor the government at all. That is why we, as a government, cannot impose supervision on us. In addition, today's practice is that only the government and government representatives meet on the Control Committee. In the view of the government, the Folketing should consider very carefully whether to change that practice and, in any case, it should not be a subset of a resolution. May I just say in conclusion that supervision must make its statement once a year. That statement shall be made public. Before then it will be forwarded to the Parliamentary Control Committee, and there is therefore no question of the Control Committee not being given an insight into the supervisory board. Of course, the parliamentary control committee does. Overall, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165544	There is a question from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165547	It really annoys me that the Minister of Justice cannot see the good in this proposal. These are, in fact, some proposals that I have picked up with other control committees from other countries at a conference last summer, but leave it at that. Does the Minister not think that there is a special relationship with our intelligence services? Well, I'm thinking a lot about the Edward Snowden case, which we don't know quite a hundred percent what was. But one could imagine that there would also be an employee in PET who thought that something was strange. And would it not be better for the person concerned to turn to a supervision which can actually deal with it and keep the matter confidential if it is required than for the person concerned to go out in the press in frustration or whatever else it may be? It's one thing. And can the Minister not also confirm that although employees can turn to the supervision today, supervision can only deal with a small part, that is, with the registration of personal data? So you also have to extend the powers of supervision to look at cases if you're going to do this. The last thing is: is there anything to prevent us from making legislation which requires independent supervision to appear in the Control Committee once a year and make ourselves available for a talk with the Control Committee? Is there anything to prevent us from doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165712	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165713	I will not guarantee that I will get the answer to all questions within one minute, but I would like to say in general terms that when you are an employee of an intelligence service, there are some very special obligations. That is why, in my view, there can be no situation where you are frustrated and therefore go to the public. So, we cannot work with and in our intelligence services if employees may be frustrated and therefore need to share information with the public. If you experience something as an employee of PET, it must of course appear, but I have already explained where to go with the knowledge you might get. But I would also like to say that working in an intelligence service is and remains something other than working elsewhere in our public sector. This also has to be the case because you have to be able to handle information in a different way from what applies to other types of public employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165811	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165813	Well, we have had a situation, one might say, in the so-called Christiania case, where at least there were some from PET who were extremely frustrated by a work situation and there were things that landed in the press. Perhaps it would have been better if one had been able to complain about one's need for supervision, which could then have looked for something that wasn't entirely after the book. Could the Minister not tell me whether there is anything to prevent us from making legislation which means that supervision comes up with the Control Committee once a year and makes itself available for a talk?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165849	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165851	I cannot say on a stand-by basis whether there is anything to prevent that. I don't think there is. It will be a different form of supervision than what is today, but I have to come back in writing to see if there is anything to prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165904	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. President. Karsten Nonbo from the Left as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507165918	I might as well say that there is not much new that I can add in my rapporteur's speech in relation to what the Minister of Justice has said. However, I would be a little concerned if both the Control Committee and the Intelligence Supervisory Board had a real right of disposal and had to start telling PET what to investigate and what to do. I would find that extremely worrying, because then it is not independent supervision that we have and not an independent PET. So that alone makes us unable to agree to the proposal. If there are PET employees who leak something to the press, they can also leak to members of the supervision if that is what they want. That would be a rather nicer way to show you're worried. So we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170018	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170022	But sir... Karsten Nonbo does not confirm that the supervision of the intelligence services can only deal with what is about the registration of personal data, and that that means that the supervision cannot actually today deal with other complaints or initiate an investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170043	I can confirm that, and I am actually quite sure that no one else has such a right of disposal over the supervision of the intelligence services. So I'm fine with that and I can confirm it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170058	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170059	I don't think I'm gonna make much progress on that, but I couldn't get Mr. Knox. Karsten Nonbo to take a position on whether or not it was reasonable to have the supervision of the intelligence services appear so that an annual discussion could be held in the Control Committee on what supervision finds? This is, of course, the only way a Control Committee can keep itself informed of what the supervisory authority actually finds out about things and cases and perhaps initiate legislative changes if that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170133	Fortunately, the Control Committee can do a great deal, and that can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170142	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170149	The proposal here is to establish a whistleblower scheme for employees of defence and police intelligence services. Let me start by stating that it is important that employees in all parts of the public sector tell it if there is something they have experienced in their work that should not take place. Compliance with rules and guidelines is essential in order to maintain confidence in public authorities. Public employees in Denmark must experience that they are taken very seriously and protected if they express themselves about unlawful matters. That is why the government has asked a number of experts to make recommendations on how to ensure this freedom of expression for public servants. These recommendations have now been prepared and have been consulted. It is clear that we Social Democrats look with great interest at these recommendations and want to strengthen public employees' opportunities for expression. However, a whistleblower scheme is not part of the recommendations, and that is why we cannot support the proposal here today. We should not think that such a system can only be set up, and then all the problems have been solved. This is very much about management and culture, but it is also about • and it is crucial that we have the necessary organisations and bodies to follow up. That was the reason for setting up the Supervisory Board of Intelligence, which has just given its first report, which points out a number of points. In this respect, we have agreed to an evaluation of supervision, and here we Social Democrats would like to see adjustments made to the organisational framework of supervision. As I said, we Socialists cannot support the proposal that we are discussing here today. We are very concerned about providing a good framework for reports for PET and the police, just as we are for all other civil servants. This is also the reason why we have launched more work in this area, which has resulted in our own recommendations from among others. the interest organisations representing the police. Therefore, we think it makes sense to listen to these, and here a whistleblower scheme is not part of the answer. And in those words, we Socialists do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170357	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170404	Thank you. As our normal rapporteur in this area, Mrs Krarup, unfortunately cannot be present, I have promised to read out what we mean in the Danish People's Party. In the Danish People's Party, we fear that the introduction of a whistleblower scheme for employees in the Defence and Police Intelligence Services will promote an atmosphere of distrust in the services. It must be possible to make internal criticism when needed of both superiors and subordinates and of the activities of the service at all. It should actually feel like an obligation to make such criticism when it is needed. You have to dare to make the criticism without covering yourself under anonymity. It is the responsibility of management to create such an environment. If we set up a system that allows anonymous criticism, we will undermine the possibility of creating an environment where criticism is a natural thing. You want to strengthen mistrust and snitch spirit, and that is negative and must be combated. The Danish People's Party will not be involved in institutionalising such an attitude, and we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170510	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170522	Thank you for the floor, President. We Radicals worked to set up the committee that has been working on the issue of the freedom of expression of public employees, which this proposal is also about. Therefore, in many ways, we think that this is an interesting proposal from the SF which we Radicals will not reject can be discussed in the long term. However, we would like to wait at first for the hearings to be completed on the basis of this committee's work, and that is in respect of the process which we ourselves have been involved in initiating and which I believe the SF rapporteur was also involved in initiating. That is why we are not prepared to support this proposal here and now, but I do not wish to deny that it may be relevant in the long term. In any case, we would very much like to continue working in this area, with the SF, proposers of this proposal, also with other parties. We would also like that when it comes to the freedom of expression of public employees in a broader sense. Of course the Defense Intelligence and Police Intelligence are special, but sometimes I think it's all gonna be a talk about very well-known whistleblower cases. But for me, the freedom of expression of public servants is also about the many other hundreds of thousands of public servants who do not exactly work in the secret services. They must also dare to use their right to express themselves freely. It will initially be a rejection, but we are prepared to continue working with the other parties on this matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170701	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507170720	I think it is a very good suggestion that the SF has made. It is very good that you want a whistleblower scheme to ensure that, in this case, in two very, very closed services, which are not really controlled very much, you have a place to go if something happens: if there are rules that are being violated, things that are not being done, which should be done, but which you are afraid to say out loud with name mention. It is also very important that the information should then come to the right place, which is why it is also very good that the SF has proposed in this context that the whistleblower system should lead to an opportunity to examine the submissions made in whistleblower systems, and that this also applies when there is a need for investigations into other parts of the intelligence services' work than the equal personal records, which are, of course, the only thing supervised today. It is also in itself a fairly large extension of the control area for both the Police Intelligence Service and the Defence Intelligence Service, and we in the Enhedslisten think this is very positive. This is something we have been shouting for a long time, and it is also something we have criticized the agreement that was reached with, among other things. SF, in order not to contain, i.e. a control and supervision of other parts of the work than that of personal records. There is no doubt that this is needed. As I said, intelligence services are being controlled very little. It is both if you compare with other authorities and if you compare with other countries. We have just received a statement on the terrorist preparedness which also shows that there have been operational and procedural errors in the intelligence services. We believe that in the Enhedslisten among others. has something to do with the fact that there is no proper supervision. But it will also be something that you, as an employee, would be able to get rid of if you know that the processes are not as they should be through a whistleblower system. We have also had other cases in recent years which have shown the need to be able to say things out loud. As you know, there was the whole case of the Christiania visit and the so-called emergency lie, which started with some PET agents feeling called to go to the press anonymously and report the misuse of sensitive personal information. Here a whistleblower scheme could have been very good, because then a real investigation could have been initiated instead of relying on press coverage. We also had the whole case of the alleged civilian agent Morten Storm, who allegedly helped the CIA, the U.S. Intelligence Service, to locate suspected terrorists, and then committed the murder of them, which would not, of course, be legal under Danish law. And then we even had another case, which was about the illegal deletion and shredring of cases that PET had about prominent politicians. These are just the things I could think of when I thought back to the previous period of government. So there is good reason to have a valve when it comes to two very closed authorities in the Danish state.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171102	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171116	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of openness and transparency, and we hope that it will not destroy anything for the SF that we thereby endorse the proposal or support it. A whistleblower scheme allows employees of the Defence and Police Intelligence Services to address themselves anonymously to the independent oversight of intelligence services or the Parliamentary Control Committee and to initiate an investigation into the case by these authorities. That's kind of what's the signal here. After all, we know that the Intelligence Supervisory Board was set up in January 2014 and it is a specially independent control body that oversees that the Police Intelligence Service and the Defence Intelligence Service process information on natural and legal persons in accordance with the law. The monitoring shall also monitor the processing by the Cybersecurity Centre of information on natural persons in accordance with the legislation. Since 1 January 2014, the new supervision has had to monitor the processing of data by PET and the Defence Intelligence Service, that is to say on persons, but all other parts of the services' work, e.g.: the use of agents, phone tapping, computer monitoring and e-mail, the new supervision cannot and should not control. In its first year of life, the new control body has revealed that in a number of cases, PET has broken rules on the processing of personal data. Despite limited control of the services in 2014, random checks have shown that in several cases PET has violated the rules by either not complying with the overall time limit for the processing of personal data or having stored data that was no longer necessary for the performance of the service's tasks. It informs the chairman of the supervision, in fact, District Judge Ulla Staal. In addition, as part of a new scheme, the supervision has received 17 requests from citizens who would have the supervision to investigate whether PET wrongly processed information about them. This was the case in two cases, says Ulla Staal. This leads us to believe that there is, in fact, good reason for setting up a system in which employees can apply, because there is clearly reason to say that it has happened in a number of cases that it has not been in accordance with the law. So the freedom that transparency must be given to us, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171343	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171400	I can start by saying that the Conservative People's Party cannot support this resolution because we simply do not agree with the wording of the proposal. The authors of the motion for a resolution, in order to put the proposal here on the table, provide that today there is a distrust gap between citizens and states, and a whistle-blower system will be put right. I believe, in fact, that if a whistle-blower system is established, it is first and foremost very strongly signalled that there are staff in our services who do not do their job well enough, and then it will be a deep distrust of the employees concerned. In fact, I think you end up creating an even deeper distrust gap. It should be the case that the employees, both in the Defence Intelligence Service and the Police Intelligence Service, can go to their boss, and I can also be concerned if this proposal, if it was adopted and implemented, would reduce the relationship you would get as an employee to your nearest boss. In addition, I would just like to say that right now we are also a little in the middle of a ford. Well, yesterday it was announced that PET was going to have a new boss. I think there is a need to calm down. There is no need to get a gossip service at this time. We do not believe that there is in the future, and that is why we refuse to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171539	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171554	Thank you. I can see that there will be no majority in favour of this proposal, but I would like to thank the two parties which supported the proposal, which I hope will be ready in time. I have no doubt that the Danish Secret Service is one of those who run the alleralds best in legal terms. I am convinced that there are a great many skilled staff members of PET who are also endeavouring to comply with the legislation that exists. But we have seen at least one example of a case, the Christiania case, where there were employees who were very, very frustrated about some things that were going on and it ended up in the press. This may not be the best situation, which is why we were supposed to introduce a whistleblower service for our intelligence service. I can tell you that this is being done in the United States on top of the Snowden case, so there are actually other countries where you do these things or are going to do it. The ideas I have received from a conference where a large number of control committees from all over the world met and where I could listen to what was possible in the various places around the world, and here was the proposal for whistleblower service up. It is true that PET employees today can go to supervision if there is something they think should be investigated, but supervision cannot process anything other than personal data, so it would require a change of law if we were to give them more powers to look at other things. I understand there is no support for that. I think it is a pity that we could not at least agree that, in addition to presenting its annual report, supervision should also be required to come up for a discussion in the Committee on Control on the report and on the things that we find which, by their very nature, cannot be publicly presented, as is the case with the secret services, but at least it will give the members of the Control Committee, who are also members of parliament, an opportunity to initiate legislation if needed. Because there are actually no other ways to get acquainted with the work of supervision. But I will continue to work on it, and it will not be long before we discuss a proposal on the freedom of expression of public servants here in the Parliamentary Assembly, I hope, if we can achieve that, because there is a proposal coming from the SF on exactly that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171837	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171851	I am sorry that I could not read the title of the proposal, but I have not put my glasses on, and it is a little difficult sometimes. But I'll have to remember it for next time. The debate is open. I call the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507171925	Then it's a good thing we can help each other. We have also been here for a long time now, so if someone starts reading some words wrong, I do not think we should blame each other for anything. I would like to say that this motion for a resolution deals with a form of crime which is incredibly intrusive and therefore very brutal in its character, especially if it is systematic and persistent stalking, because then it is something that can burden a victim and also relatives quite a lot. That is why I fully agree with the SF that it is important that we also have effective safeguards in this area. It is not long ago that the Folketing adopted a comprehensive set of rules on the subject of restraining orders, residence bans and expulsions in what was called a restraining order. After all, the whole purpose of the law was to strengthen efforts to protect people, including with regard to stalking. With that law, there are already provisions defining how we understand stalking, and the provisions stress that it is a serious crime. It can be said that there is thus the legislative protection which, if I remember correctly, a unanimous parliament has agreed if necessary. It may also be important to say that the law is based on a report by the Committee on Criminal Procedure, which at that time also dealt with the question of whether to introduce a penalty for precise stalking. At the time, the committee found that a system of restraining orders actually provides better protection for the victims and the injured, and I cannot see what should have changed since then. On the other hand, it is quite obvious that in these cases we need the police to react quickly so that the harassment can be stopped and that the parties can be helped to be separated from each other for the sake of the victim. Of course, as far as speed is concerned, we must always bear in mind the rules on the consultation of the parties. This is a principle which must be strongly justified. Therefore, in the context of the adoption of the restraining order in 2012, it was also refused to derogate from the requirement of prior consultation of the parties, including in this type of case. There is an obvious dilemma in this, but Parliament has dealt with this a few years ago. In relation to the question of whether we should set deadlines for individual cases, I find it relatively often that proposals are being made in either the public or here in the Assembly about some form of crime which is essential, which has major victims and which is why we want to set deadlines around. The problem is that if I said yes every time, we would also water down that principle. Although I think that the type of crime we are discussing today is also, having said all that, it is important that the police pay attention to this issue. That is why I am also pleased that the Attorney General in all police circles has taught law enforcement officers and lawyers who work with a restraining order in the new rules and, following the adoption of the law, the Attorney General has drawn up new guidelines for dealing with cases of restraining order, etc. There are also a number of police circles which have chosen to bring proceedings in this area together in one place in the circle in order to ensure an effective procedure. In this whole discussion, we should not forget the victims. There are a number of protective measures, including the possibility that a restraining order may be issued by a police group other than the one in which the victim is staying. The purpose of this is, as it were, to blur where the victim is staying, and this is of course relevant in cases where the victim has to live in hiding because of harassment. It is also possible to equip the victim with an attack alarm if it is necessary to do so on the basis of a specific police professional judgement. Then there is the question of the possibility of changing identity in particularly serious cases. That possibility already exists today. It goes without saying that this is something that should only happen in exceptional cases, but I am glad that we have the regulatory framework for this to happen. Summa summarum we cannot support the proposal. I agree with the SF that this is an essential area of crime, and unfortunately there are many of them. The law that applies in this area is not very old, and I think, in fact, that we have the provisions that will be more of a focus on making sure that they are actually used. And then we must say culturally and socially to those who believe that, with social control or other, they must decide on the lives of other people. No one should be allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172456	There is a question from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172458	I am sorry, perhaps, on behalf of the victims, that the Minister is not a little more sympathetic to just some of the parts of the proposal, so I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister: is there nothing we should do better than stalking? Is there not any initiative that the Minister can point out that can help these victims who are extremely distressed by a long process and many other problems relating to their cases? This has dramatic consequences for them, and I really think they need an indication that something more needs to be done. And I am well aware of the legislation of the past because the SF was involved in setting up that committee; the SF had the resolution in the Parliamentary Chamber setting up the committee which led to the final legislation. So doesn't the minister have something we can encourage these people with?
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172550	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172551	Yes, but it is true here, as in other areas where we are dealing with crime that comes very close to people's lives, that our authorities must respond and that speed and speed obviously play a role. I think that we generally have too long waiting times in the overall legal system, and that is why I am of course extremely concerned that we will have it reduced; that applies in this area as it applies to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172622	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172623	I do not think that is the case, but I would like to know whether the Minister might be able to take a meeting with the Danish Anti-Stalking Association, which is perhaps the most experienced on the victim side here, because I think they have a lot of messages that they would like to get rid of, about the hardships they are experiencing in these matters, which are just really, really hard to get rid of. I admit that, in relation to many of them, there may not be the good solutions, because this is a really persistent perpetrator who may also be very ill. But I think they, if we could make the process of some of these things more flexible, if there was the slightest possibility of it, would be really grateful for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172708	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172709	I am always happy to listen, and I am also very happy to be inspired by ideas from the outside; this is true in this area, as it applies to everyone else. This is an important group of victims, and this is an important area of crime, and unfortunately it is many times. I believe that what is crucial is that there is a focus on the area in all parts of the Danish police and with the authorities at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172733	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one is Mr. Karsten Nonbo, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507172750	Thank you to the SF for raising a very important matter which must be taken seriously. I can say straight away, in the case of the Left, that, of course, there are elements that we can use. The most obvious thing for me is to put a GPS foot bracelet on the one who has been convicted of stalking; then we will know where we have calorius for the next while. In relation to changing identity: Yes, but we shouldn't come that far. We should have fought this before it's so bad for the victim that he has to change his identity, because then we're really out of control. In relation to relevant treatment options: yes, that is many times the problem, i.e. that the stalker has failed, mentally ill, etc. So relevant treatment options to the extent it helps are good. I just don't think it's gonna help. What worries me about this motion for a resolution can of course be improved, or I can get a more detailed explanation from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is that you want to insert a stalking clause into the penal code which clearly defines stalking. I am actually afraid, if you get it clearly defined, that there are some who fall next to it, because there are many kinds of stalking. Well, there are some, I've heard that actually sends flowers to the victim, and that's very nice at first, but when all the vases are filled, you get tired of it, too. And that's what I call stalking. There are forms that we have to be careful not to exclude by defining this. However, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion may be able to elaborate on this. What I can also fear is that if that is what the intention is, then it is that with reduced processing times. When the case is packed, that is, from the indictment, until the trial is scheduled and the person is convicted in court, it must not be too long. But where I think many stalker cases actually end is when the police deal with them. For many of these stalkers, when they've searched some 3-4 times and then the case has been packed and handed over to court and lying there a few months, will be able to do a lot of damage. I have to say that from my previous life as a full-time police officer, I know that many of my colleagues take this very seriously, and already from the first notification you do so, you call the defendant and talk to him and find out what level this case is at. And believe me, if you've drove out to the person a 4-5 times each time he's stalked in full uniform and confronted him with it, then I actually think the case will die a lot faster than if it's waiting for two months in court and he gets some kind of legal judgment and maybe a fine that he doesn't pay anyway. Then I think the fact that the police are out there a 4-5 times, or that you get caught sometimes while you're stalking counts a lot more. I'm not saying that you have to harass the stalker, but I'm just saying that you can tell him that he is now doing something illegal. And when you've done it sometimes, I actually think it's a better medicine. But there are the good elements that have been mentioned here. On the other hand, we have some reservations about this if it is thought that the case should be packed quickly and in court, because then I am afraid that it is the wrong help that we are giving to the stalked person. So that's what we call a soft rejection. But this is certainly something worth discussing further, because it is a serious issue and it is a very unfortunate situation in which the stalker victims are brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507173224	We are moving forward in the series of speeches, and this is Mrs Annette Lind from the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507173240	Thank you. The people who are subjected to systematic and repeated harassment must be properly protected, because the insecurity and fear caused by stalking deserve no Dane to live with. That is why I would also like to sign that the SF has raised this debate with the motion for a resolution here. After all, it is a matter of security that all Danes should be able to feel safe in their homes, in their local area, and when they walk on the street. And if you experience stalking, you experience insecurity and fear in your everyday life. Of course, we should not accept that. We Social Democrats very much agree that victims of stalking require special attention in the work of the police, and there is no doubt that this is an area where knowledge has been scarce in the past and where there has been uncertainty about how the police should handle stalking cases. That is why we have addressed the issue. In 2012, we amended the legislation in this area so that the law protects the victims of stalking more effectively. The law extends the powers of the police and strengthens the victim's ability to receive help. So this is certainly an area that has been, and still is, a lot of attention. In addition, as a follow-up to the legislation, the Attorney General has among other things. developed guidelines for both the police and the victim, so there is a clear approach to how stalking cases should be handled. And the police circles around the country report that it has become easier to deal with the stalking cases and that they are generally given priority. At the same time, the police have implemented new tools so that they can more easily assess which cases are urgently needed for assistance to the victim or for action to be taken against the perpetrator. All this is to ensure that the victims can receive the necessary help as soon as possible. We must support stalking victims, and that is why we have launched a number of initiatives, and I will certainly not deny that we can also look at more, but we cannot support the proposals presented here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507173441	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507173452	Thank you for that, President. Before addressing the various sub-areas that are included in the proposal and which need to be implemented, we think it is appropriate to relate to the concept of stalking. Stalking has probably always existed, just not with this term; it has only come in recent years as a consequence of more attention being paid to it both in the media and on the political side. Stalking is characterised by a particular type of behavior and activity that is applied to another human being and by the fact that each victim sees it as unwanted, repetitive, persistent, disturbing and frightening; it is intrusive and unwanted contact and communication. Therefore, when stalking ends up being so violent for the persecuted, it can result in many different behavior in the molested. Separately, each act or activity may in many cases appear innocent and harmless, but if these many actions are combined, they can be experienced as an anxiety factor in another person's life. It should be remembered that there is often a long history behind which has developed in various ways, in which increasing harassment can end up breaking down a person in whom fear characterizes everyday life. In Denmark there is not a definite stalking law, but in March 2012 a new law on restraining orders, residence bans and expulsions came into force. When it was introduced, there was a coherent set of rules bringing together the rules on restraining orders, residence bans and expulsions, defining stalking. There is no doubt that legislation is a step in the way of creating a better legal basis for stalking. The Public Prosecutor's booklet on advice and guidance for people who are subject to persecution, harassment and stalking and who were subsequently created is a very clear and good tool to learn more about the phenomenon of stalking and to get the tools and guidance to combat this. In the past, the Danish People's Party has asked the Minister about stalking in connection with the stake pool negotiations, and here we have repeatedly and over several years expressed our desire to strengthen the efforts for the benefit of stalking victims. This is not an easy task. As recently as the last bet pool agreement concluded, the Danish Anti-Stalking Association was not taken into account, despite the fact that they had actually made a fine effort to help stalking victims. The refusal has then been justified by the Minister in various ways. The Danish People's Party regrets that it has become this way, but must also mention in the same context that it is precisely a proof of how difficult it has been to be considered for the pool funds, as the pool has not increased over the years and has not been allocated new funds. It is a very vulnerable pool and many fine initiatives that can help make a difference in the lives of vulnerable people. The proposal under discussion states that a clause on stalking should be included in the criminal code. If so, this can help to ensure a better opportunity to deal with cases of stalking, and the Danish People's Party welcomes this. The other proposals outlined, for example: Time limits for processing and increased police knowledge, change of identity in stalking, ensuring better treatment for stalkers and testing GPS footbands, we believe that we would be excellent to assess in committee work. We will also try in committee to clarify what is possible today, while at the same time deepening the proposals. All in all, there are a great many points in the proposal, but the Danish People's Party is very happy to enter into a dialogue in order to achieve a positive improvement in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507173857	Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll move on in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507173907	Thank you for that, President. Stalking is a terrible thing for the people who suffer, and I think we all agree on that, and so, of course, we all share, I think, across the parties the intention of this motion for a resolution. The question then is what our criminal protection against stalking should be like. In 2012, we adopted a whole new set of rules in this area, which was worked through by the Criminal Services Committee. You have recommended the model of restraining order that we are using today rather than such a proper criminal law provision, and we Radicals would like to stick to that model. In addition, it is my impression that the police in the last few years have become more focused on this area. Of course it is one among many police areas and tasks, and we have discussed many of them today already, but we have left before our change in 2012 not having had much focus on the area to in recent years have come well after that. On the radical side, we would like to discuss proposals to ensure better knowledge by our professionals on stalking and better help to victims in general for crime, including stalking victims. However, there are a few elements in this proposal that we are somewhat sceptical about, for example. This proposal for a GPS foot bracelet. We have set aside funds to draw up some projects, some tests on GPS footbands, but if we are going to use it specifically in relation to restraining orders, it is therefore a fairly severe tightening of the restraining order because we are being monitored 24-7. In any case, we should have a separate debate on this subject. If it is up to me, one should have a separate debate on it and not put it in as such a small part of an overall proposal. Then I fully agree with the Minister for Justice on deadlines. There are many different types of cases in which I would like matters to go faster. There are, in fact, several types of case in which I would like it to be quick rather than fast, but that really puts us in the dilemma that if you had to have special time limits for all sorts of different types of case, which could also be as terrible as stalking or even worse than stalking, then it would water down the very principle of special time limits. One has to ask oneself the question: what are some proposals that we have to deal with more slowly when we have to deal with some more quickly? The answer is, of course, that instead we need to be better at speeding up the general process of proceedings. That must be where we put in, not by making such special deadlines here and there. In any case, we must be very careful about this, and we must limit it, because that simply means that the other cases simply take longer to deal with. Then I also do not know exactly how expensive it will be according to the SF. I am asking because I can read that the SF will find the funding in the victim fund, and that is why it is a little a relevant question, because if you make a very big cut in this victim fund, there will only be less money for victims who are not exactly stalking, but by something else. However, the SF's rapporteur may be able to reverse this in his rapporteur's speech. So to sum up, we radicals share the intentions, other things would be strange. We share the intention that we should continue to be better at caring for Danes, citizens of Denmark, who are subjected to stalking. There are some excellent ideas in this proposal that we are open to further discussion, but there are also some elements we are a little sceptical about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507174247	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Pernille Skipper. You don't have to run. When a speaker does not use his speaking time, the next speaker may be surprised. We'll take that as it comes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507174314	Thank you. In Enhedslisten we think that SF has made a very fine proposal, a proposal that addresses a very important issue. There are a lot of different proposals in the same thing here, you have to say, so if you start from the end, it is true that there is too long a processing time. It is not only with regard to stalking victims, I would say that they are also all sorts of other victims of perilous crime, and that is where we have a general task in trying to reduce processing time. In the Enhedslisten, we are somewhat concerned about setting special deadlines for individual cases of crime, because there is a risk that it will push others into a longer processing period. However, we would very much like to take a look at procedural times in general. We think it is quite right that a specific stalking clause is needed. It has gradually developed in this area that it will soon be impossible to get around it, so we would very much like to be involved in discussing how it should be precisely designed and so on. It is a little more technical than that, but we agree with the intention. The same applies to the desire to create networks to support victims. Fortunately, it already exists in many places. It may also be more a civil society task or a municipal task than it is the actual task of the Minister of Justice to set up a network, because it should preferably be locally funded and accessible. But we fully agree with the intention. The same applies to the change of identity and the possibilities for it. Here, too, we would like to point out that there is a need to be able to move more to another municipality, another place of residence, and also to receive financial support for it if needed. Of course, the alternative forms of punishment are also very important to try to work with in order to prevent them more effectively. Where the chain breaks a little bit for us in this proposal is by the GPS scheme. We may think that it is a bit disproportionately to start putting GPS footbands on people who, after all, are not detained, but have been told that they should not move in a specific area. We think that's going too far. Finally, we are a little saddened by the fact that funding is being provided through a proposal to withdraw from a victim fund which we do not want from the political side to see that funds are being taken from it, because that fund will then be able to get its feet on quickly, and that is money which, in our opinion, belongs to the autonomous fund for the purposes which are there. But there are definitely a lot of good elements in this. We think it is very good that the proposal has been put forward, and we would very, very much like to be involved in discussing how we carry some of the individual elements forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507174626	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So the next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507174644	This is a proposal from the SF on stalking. It's about streamlining the cases of stalking, reducing processing time and introducing deadlines, creating a special stalking clause, creating networks and ensuring increased knowledge among police and professionals, and then it's a matter of ensuring treatment options that match the stalking profiles that are and using GPS footbands. I would say that I and the Conservative People's Party think that it is an exceptionally sympathetic and well worked out proposal from the SF, because there is no doubt that stalking can destroy a person's life and that it can happen in a really, very short time. Therefore, it is also absolutely crucial that there is rapid action when you have cases of stalking. We can see that today's processes are slow and that they are also taking too long. The question is, when there is not just a big jabber from here to support the proposal, whether it is perhaps in fact due to the fact that it is still a relatively new phenomenon for some, that we are perhaps still not fully geared to dealing with stalking. But we have to be. That is why it is just now that I think it is the Conservative People's Party which is today giving the warmest support to this proposal. We've got a little something about funding. It sounds extremely expensive, and possibly not as something that can be contained within the funds of the Offer Fund, because it is costly. However, we think that the proposal is sympathetic in all possible ways and, as I said, it is very well worked out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507174835	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there a brief comment? No. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507174839	Thank you. There will then be no support for this proposal either. This is something that is very close to my heart. The SF helped to table the first motion for a resolution, which actually led us to have the committee which, in turn, led us to have legislation in this area. I have to say that stalking is a growing problem and the new technological opportunities we have offer even more refined ways of pursuing a victim. Today, it is not just about standing outside the victim's door or showing up in all kinds of places. It's also surveillance with cameras, video footage, constant text messages, hacking and many other things that keep leaving the victim with a feeling that the perpetrator says: I know where you are; I know what you're doing; I'm watching you; you can't get away from me. This is a great strain, and many of these victims are completely out of the labour market. Their children are being affected. On average, in a stalking case there are 21 people who are affected by this violent problem. Therefore, there is every reason to do more in this area. And I think, if you ask the Danish Anti-Stalking Association, and I have also had close contact with them to make this proposal, and a number of other organisations, by the way, the experience is that the authorities are not geared to this, so the experience is that there are not enough tools to stop stalking effectively. That is why it is good that we may be able to continue working on some of the elements of the proposal, because I really think that is what is needed. And it would be really good if the Minister of Justice took a meeting with the Association to get a sense of what you're standing in. I do not know how long it has been since the Left rapporteur, Karsten Nonbo, has been a full-time police officer, but I think it was a few years ago. These people who are the perpetrators in these cases, you can't just step up outside and say, "Hey, it's illegal, what you're doing." But there is a small group of stalkers who actually respond to it. At the hearing in the Folketing it was said that those who had a lower intelligence and who had difficulty in understanding and interpreting the signals of others would actually respond positively to punishment, while the others were much more complicated and had mental problems and challenges that were demanding treatment. That is why there is a need for the police to come in and for sentences to be passed and for the treatment to be started. So may I say, yes, what is stalking? After all, we need a definition in order to be more clear about when the police are going to take action and what they are going to take action against. I think that it is perhaps a little bit an understatement of the problems the victims are facing in these cases, when some say that this is about whether you receive too many flowers from someone you do not want to receive flowers from. There are other countries that have defined stalking as events that are suitable for creating insecurity and anxiety among the individual, and a behaviour that is undesirable. And it must be fair, if you say no to behaviour, that you can then also be allowed to be left alone. We heard from the Socialist rapporteur a list of a number of things that have been done. It is fine that there has been some legislation, and I think many people are very pleased about that, but it also comes against the reality that we are seeing as a victim, namely that there are things that do not work very well. However, I would like to thank those who supported individual elements of the proposal or the whole proposal for that matter. There is a challenge with the processing times. I agree that we should not impose on the courts soon one and soon the other objective of processing times. But exactly in stalking cases, the experts say it's crucial to get a perpetrator to stop there being a quick reaction. And then it simply does not work out that it may take three months to deal with an infringement of a restraining order. We're gonna have to dive into the funding. There are some who claim that it is a great cut in the victim fund. I'm having a hard time seeing that, but let's get a closer look at it. There are a number of things, for example. The GPS footlinks that have been set in motion under the Ministry of Justice. There you could just include it here and have it looked into. But we have to ask that in the Ministry of Justice so that we can learn more about the economy and see who is right about it. And then I will continue to work and see if there can be a majority for individual elements in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175351	But before that, there is one for a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Nonbo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175356	I recognise that it is a few years since I've been out full-time, even though I'm out every single year. However, I do not believe that we should ignore the answer given by the former Minister of Justice to Peter Skaarup just over a year ago, which actually says a little the same thing, namely that, in particular, by police instructions and reminders of the consequences of inappropriate behaviour, many cases are stopped. So fortunately it still happens away, and for every case that can be stopped, it is good for the person who benefits from it. Otherwise, should there be any doubt, I would like to give an undertaking from the Left that we would be very happy to participate if the Left were to be invited. I have been to a conference on stalking before, and this is a serious problem, and the rapporteur is right that it is getting worse, because there are precisely more opportunities for stalking people today. I know where you are; I know where you live. Already there you have insecurity, and it doesn't really matter if you send flowers, or if you send thistles, or what the hell you do. It is, of course, that the victim feels that no matter what you do, you are looked over your shoulder. It's the insecurity that's the worst. So I would like to give a commitment from the Left that we would very much like to be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175524	I welcome that commitment, and we will then have to see if we can do something together here. Moreover, I do not underestimate the fact that it may seem that you are standing up as a police officer and saying: what you are doing can lead to something worse for yourself. For the hearing we had in the Folketing showed precisely that there is a tiny group of stalkers who are actually responding positively to it, so of course it is a road to go. I'm just saying that some of the examples I've heard of from the Danish Anti-Stalking Association are violent, and they surpass the imagination, I'd say, compared to how refined these people are in the pursuit of other people. Something quite different and a completely different package is needed in relation to these victims, and so the current system is not very well geared to handle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175612	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175615	Nor do I hope that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt's attention was passed by, that I said that we are actually in on the GPS thing right away. Well, if a person is first convicted of stalking, I have no trouble at all that as part of that sentence of penalty or imprisonment, or whatever it may be, said: For the next two years you are wearing GPS on you, so we know where we have you, so we're sure you won't stalk him anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175646	That sounds really good. It seems that there are some things that we can agree on, and I think that is positive for the victims, and they are the ones that are most close to my heart. When you hear about some of these cases, you're really surprised and upset about what these people are going through. It destroys their lives, it destroys their children's lives, and it is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175708	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150507175722	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 8 May 2015, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
