ParlaMint-DK_20150407130003	The meeting is open. Pia Adelsteen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 150 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the parallel agreement on Europol). Rosa Lund (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 151 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the annual 2-percent savings (the green harvester) in Section 19 of the Finance Act (Ministry of Education and Research) and Section 20 of the Ministry of Education). Marie Krarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 152 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the modernisation of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code). Frank Aaen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 153 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an independent inquiry into the processing of data by SKAT concerning tax fraudsters). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 154 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on permanent residence permits as a condition for family reunification of refugees) and motion for a resolution No. B 156 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cessation of public paid travel by family reunification). Bent Bøgsted (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 155 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on working clauses in public contracts). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 157 (Proposal for a resolution on student driving). Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 158 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a biker and gang package). Christian Langballe (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 159 (Proposal for a decision of the Parliament that foreigners against whom PET warns should not be granted citizenship and should not be subject to a bill on citizenship). Christian Langballe (DF) and Martin Henriksen (DF): Request no. F 34 (Does the Government have a position on whether Denmark should withdraw from the 1961 United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness?). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Question No. F 35 (What can the government say about the Danish defence need to acquire new fighter planes when it is seen in the perspective of what foreign policy role Denmark is expected to play in the coming years and decades, including whether the government believes that Denmark should continue to pursue a policy of actively participating in NATO missions or should be more oriented towards the UN and peacekeeping missions?). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 150 is also referred to the European Committee and B 153 is also referred directly to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Titles on the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150407130234	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. Motions for resolutions V 38 by Finn Thranum (V), Astrid Krag (S), Morten Marinus (DF), Helge Vagn Jacobsen (RV), Pernille Vigsø Bagge (SF), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Mike Legarth (KF) and Uffe Elbæk (ALT) will be put to the vote first. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and ALT), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 38 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 37 of Finn Sørensen (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407130339	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407130357	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. Bills have been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407130424	I will take a short break before I give the floor to the Minister for Finance. May we have a little more quiet so that we can start the first reading of B 72. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407130546	Thank you very much. With motion for a resolution B 72, the authors of the motion for a resolution will equate an exemption from digital mail with a general exemption from the requirement for digital self-service. However, as I mentioned earlier in this Chamber, there is a difference between digital mail and digital self-service. It is the case that a citizen can generally be exempted from digital mail because the citizen can receive letters from the public in the digital mailbox unsolicited and also unexpectedly. Therefore, it is important to ensure that the citizen is able to use digital mail and has the possibility to read digital mail on an ongoing basis. That is why there are some specific grounds for exemption, and this can be done, among other things. be unable to access computers in their own homes, language barriers and physical or cognitive disabilities. On the other hand, with digital self-service, it is the citizen who needs to contact the public, and if, in this situation, the citizen cannot use digital self-service, the citizen must therefore turn to the responsible authority. Here, then, an assessment is made of whether the citizen should be exempted from the requirement of digital self-service, taking into account the ability and situation of the citizen, and this is done on a case-by-case basis. Here it is the case that the citizen can receive guidance and obtain a possible paper form. However, it is not self-evident that, because, for example, we are dealing with the problem of unemployment. does not have a computer at home, cannot use digital self-service in the citizen service, in the library or with relatives. There are also citizens who continuously acquire the necessary IT skills, fortunately then, and here digital self-service and the help you can get for it in citizens' services and libraries can be a motivating factor. So there is also a difference between the self-service solutions. There are some citizens who may have difficulty checking their digital mail or implementing a complex self-service solution, but they can, for example, reverse. be able to report moving or order a new health card digitally. Therefore, there is a difference between the rules on exemption from digital mail and the rules on exemption from the requirement for digital self-service. I note that the proposal we are debating today has been made following a criticism which was raised back in January by among others. Aalborg Municipality. And on the basis of this case, the Danish Digitisation Authority has discussed the rules of exception more closely with the municipalities, KL, and Payout Denmark. The results of those discussions show that the rules on exceptions, which have, moreover, been in place since 2012, have worked easily and smoothly in the vast majority of areas for citizens. Some of the confusion in recent times seems to be due to the coincidence in time between the transition to digital mail on 1 November 2014 and the introduction of digital self-service on some Payout areas in Denmark on 1 December 2014 compared with the requirement to report, among other things, the following: property ratio to Payout Denmark in January 2015. What we can understand in the municipalities is that the state is already approaching the level of normal requests from before the introduction of digital mail. The feedback from the municipalities has also shown that there may be some real challenges in the areas entrusted to Payout Denmark and where digital self-service requirements were introduced on 1 December 2014. Here the citizen will typically apply to Payout Denmark if he or she needs help in seeking benefits administered by Payout Denmark. However, if the citizen cannot use the digital self-service, he or she must apply for an exception from the municipality before you can turn to Payout Denmark digitally. I would like to admit that on this point perhaps there are some things that can be done a little smarter, and that is why the Minister for Social Affairs has tabled an amendment to the Danish Payout Act, and this is in connection with the examination of draft law L 148, so that citizens will experience a more flexible system in the future. After all, it is not in any way intended that Payout Denmark should act as an involuntary stop-block in cases where a citizen has not contacted the municipality first and is clearly unable to use digital self-service. In addition, efforts are now being made to inform the municipalities of the flexibility that it is possible to provide to citizens, as the rules have already been tightened up. We will also have increased focus on telling citizens quite clearly how things are related. And I am convinced that all these measures together will help to reduce the confusion. I would also like to stress that the challenges appear to exist particularly in areas which have been transferred to Payout Denmark, and that is why we are really resolving them now. I can also inform you that the implementation of the joint public digitalisation strategy, which runs from 2011 to 2015, is being continuously followed up and that, in the context of the development of the future digitalisation strategy, it will also include whether further changes are needed in the future. The second part of the resolution is about allowing municipalities to grant permanent exemptions to digital mail, and I can tell you that this is already the case today. Thus, in the context of the introduction of mandatory digital mail for citizens, it was possible for municipalities to grant permanent exemptions to digital mail. And today it is the case that over half a million citizens are exempt from digital mail and that 70%. of the exemptions are permanent. I therefore believe that we are doing the right thing and that we are working to solve the real challenges, including in this area. And, in the light of concrete experience with the digitalisation that has taken place so far, I do not see any reason at this stage to depart from the basic principles underlying the previous model of exemption from digital self-service. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131208	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131211	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his comments on the proposal. However, I have a little difficulty in understanding the conclusion. It is quite true, as the Minister of Finance says, that the municipality of Aalborg has raised this criticism, and so has the Elders Case, which tells us that their experience is that many older people choose to give up completely seeking the services they are otherwise entitled to, because they cannot find their way around this digital circus, as the Chair of the Elders calls it. And I think it is quite illogical that you cannot see that once you have come to the conclusion that here is a citizen who is unable to avail himself of, for example. digital mail may not have a computer, do not have Internet access or, for some reason, cannot use a computer, it also applies in all kinds of other contexts where they need to contact the authorities. So it would be easier for the individual citizen and the elderly and for the municipalities, for that matter, if we could just deal with this matter once rather than every time the citizen has to resort to a new self-service solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131318	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131320	In other words, I think, with all due respect, that I explained fairly carefully that there are even quite crucial differences in the way in which we receive digital mail and have a digital mailbox and are obliged to receive our requests from the public sector there, even if we do not know that they are coming, and vice versa the obligation we have to use very diverse self-service solutions where that is what the public sector is making available, when and if the citizen himself is addressing a need for the public sector. In addition, I also tried to explain fairly carefully that this is precisely a matter we have tried to settle with the municipalities, and it is, of course, legislation that has been created on the basis of a common public digitalisation strategy, which has been formulated and also rolled out in a very close collaboration with the National Association of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131409	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131411	But would the Minister of Finance not agree with me that there is, in fact, no difference at all between whether you have a computer, have access to the Internet or can operate a computer when it comes to the situation where you have to receive mail from the public and then the situation where you have to deliver information to the public? It is exactly the same problem. So in this context, it makes sense to make a general exception. That's one thing. The second thing is that when you are excluded from a self-service solution, there is nothing that stands in the way of using it anyway. So you do not take away that opportunity from the citizen, but you do not get away from the situation that the municipalities have to deal with this repeatedly and that the citizens, who are often citizens, such as the United Kingdom, have to deal with it on a number of occasions. having difficulty moving and getting around society, needs to go down to citizen service repeatedly to ask for an exemption. So wouldn't it be a little smarter and a little more flexible if we could do it this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131506	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131507	No, that is, as I said, I do not think it would be smarter or more flexible. And, as I have said, this has been done together with the National Association of Municipalities, precisely where there are problems and where there are no problems, and what, moreover, is practically done to remedy the problems identified. And there is a big difference between the fact that you are obliged to receive mail in a digital mailbox, even when you do not know that there is a letter coming or if it is the case that when you do contact, instead of filling in a form you have to fill out a form on a screen if you are able to do so, and you can get help with that. There's a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131541	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131545	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister for Finance, if not one of the reasons why this digitization and communication with the public was made, was precisely that it should be easier for the individual citizen to communicate with the public authorities. Wasn't that one of the prerequisites?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131601	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131602	Yes, indeed it has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131604	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131606	Yes, it may be for a majority, but I would really like to hear what the Minister for Finance has to say about the study that Wilke has done for Avisen.dk, where 33 1⁄2%. responds that they consider that it has become more difficult to communicate with the public after they have been forcibly digitised to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131626	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131627	Well, I think it is quite natural that, in a transitional phase like the one we are in, with these waves of changes in communication between the public sector and citizens, there will be the type of scepticism or transitional problems that such a study reflects. But it is quite objectively the case that all sections of the population are also elderly, since very much children's families like my own have been given much easier access to communicating with the public sector now than in the past. Now it is to a large extent something you can do 24 hours a day; you can do it from home. In the past it was limited by opening hours, and it required a physical appearance in many cases. I think that will prove to be a very big gain for the citizens in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131711	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. I do not see any rapporteur on the Left, so I give the floor to Mrs Karin Gaardsted as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407131733	Thank you. Today we are discussing Enhedslisten's proposal that citizens exempt from digital mail should also be automatically exempted from digital self-service. After all, we have debated this in this Chamber in the past and, as I said last, the point of view may seem logical at first sight. But I don't want these two things to be combined, because there's a big difference between them. I would like to stress that I agree with the authors of the motion that it is important for there to be an opportunity to be exempted from both. That is the way it is, and that is the way it should continue to be. But that should not be done automatically. I do not think it is for the good of the citizen to be automatically exempted from the digital self-service system if one is exempted from digital mail. At the digital post, the citizen receives information that the citizen does not know in advance about. This means, therefore, that, firstly, we may not be aware of whether there has been a post and, secondly and in this context, perhaps even more importantly, we are not aware of what the post is about. It may therefore contain information of a very private nature, such as: your health, illness, or finances; information that you may not want to share with your neighbor or daughter, or who else you might get to help you. That is why it has been important for us to be completely exempt from the digital mail, so that one gets the mail delivered and thus does not risk missing out on something that is in one's inbox that is not checked, and that one has control over who one shares with. But it is something quite different from the digital self-service. In the digital self-service, the citizen takes an active action, for example. For example, if you are seeking housing support, registering in a day care institution or school, or if you are changing medical practice, you can decide for yourself whether you want help from a family member or an acquaintance. That is why it does not make sense for the two solutions to be combined, which is why we cannot support that part of the resolution. However, it is important for us to have the possibility of being exempt from both, if that is what the citizen needs, and fortunately there are also very good opportunities for that. It is also possible to be exempted from digital self-service solutions or to get help with this by turning from time to time to the responsible authority just as has been done so far. However, you may be exempted from all areas of benefit such as: Disbursement Denmark. However, as mentioned above, we in the government do not believe that digital self-service should automatically be exempted at the same time as the exemption from digital mail. For this, the areas are simply too diverse. However, as the Minister for Finance also mentioned, we must always look at how we can make it as flexible as possible. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132052	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132055	Thank you to the Social Democrats' rapporteur for the comments. I note that the rapporteur tackles this concept of automatic combination of it, in other words, where you are exempt from digital mail and are exempt from digital self-service. But what do the Socialists think of it as an opportunity for the municipalities to grant a general exemption to the citizens, where you can see that this is quite obviously relevant, so you say that there is a general exemption in relation to everything relating to digital mail and digital self-service, and you can have the possibility, in relation to other citizens, that it is not right to grant a general exemption? Could this be a model that the Socialists could be interested in working on in order to achieve what the rapporteur ended his speech by talking about, namely to have a more flexible system than what we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132144	I believe that the staff of every citizen's service will know their citizens quite quickly so well that they know who needs help. I am thinking that when the citizen, as he has always done, comes up to the citizen service to get the paperwork done, which you need to get done, will first say that you cannot do it digitally, after which the citizen service officer will immediately ask: should I help you do it, or should I just do it for you? So I do not see that this is how much work is going to be done in the municipality, because the citizen service officer is making the decision right here and now and on the spot as to whether to help or whether to have it done completely. So, of course, I think that, as the Minister of Finance also said, we should look at whether there is a need for some adjustments and something that can make it more flexible, so that someone, what to say, should not apply for exemption in the same place many times, and that we should always move towards making it more flexible, but it should not be an automatic exemption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132259	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132301	Well, that is why I tried to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether a model could then be drawn up where citizens' services can make an assessment that there is a citizen here who could well use a general exemption so that they do not have to make that assessment and application repeatedly. In fact, when I ask, it is also because in June 2014 people who work in civil service asked if this was something they would be able to use. 23 per cent replied. of the bosses out there that it was very much, while 41 percent. replied that they largely agreed that this would mean greater flexibility for their work. So there's so why can't we just make it a little easier when it's requested and when everyone agrees that this is a group that needs the exemption?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132354	However, it is not a long discussion, the citizen service officer must stand and carry with herself whether or not Mrs Jensen needs help, the citizen service officer takes an immediate position on that, and there should be no long requests to be exempted, because this is happening right here and now when the two people are facing each other at the counter. So I do not see that it should provide more work in the municipalities, because it is happening right now, that is, by saying: as usual, I will help you, Mrs Jensen, unless you want to do some of it yourself today. I am very confident that the citizens' service staff will solve this problem because it will arise from time to time, which I agree with. But I think they know their citizens so well that they know who needs help and who can handle some of it on their own.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132445	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then I can see the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132501	Thank you. I regret that the order did not become the right one, namely the Left first. The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution that citizens who are exempt from digital mail, in other words from receiving digital mail, should also receive digital mail. automatic exemption from digital self-service, and also the possibility for municipalities to allow citizens to be exempted from digital mail without any time limit. The Left takes the view that the transition to digital self-service must be smooth, and we must, of course, be careful that we do not run so fast that certain sections of the population are dropped off. For some people, therefore, it will be necessary to be exempted from digital self-service, but in the view of the Left, this must depend on a concrete assessment from time to time of the citizen's ability to use the digital self-service solution. It is now the case that digital self-service legislation takes into account the fact that some citizens cannot use digital self-service. It is in this way that the citizen addresses himself in the community service where an assessment is then made as to whether or not the citizen can use the self-service solution in question. If the citizen is unable to do so, a paper form will be issued, and that corresponds to what was done before we introduced digital self-service. So I find it difficult to see that it should be a inconvenience and a disadvantage to the citizens, as the authors of the motion for a resolution think otherwise. Moreover, it is the case that a concrete assessment of the citizen's ability to use digital self-service from time to time ensures a great deal of flexibility. This means that a citizen, such as the United Kingdom, who is a citizen of the European Union, is entitled to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. is not able to use a complex self-service solution, not so per. automaticly can be excluded from applying a more simple solution in another area. This avoids excluding people from using the digital self-service where it can facilitate their everyday life, and that is why the rules are as they are. The reason why a citizen can generally be exempted from digital mail is that the citizen can unsolicitedly receive letters from the public, and therefore it is important to ensure that citizens are able to use digital mail. Therefore, an exemption from digital mail applies to all digital postal services over a longer period or completely permanent. With regard to Enhedslisten's proposal to allow municipalities to be exempted from digital mail without any time limit, I find it difficult to see the need. In fact, it is already the case that municipalities can make the exemption permanent in cases where there is no likelihood of a change in the situation of the citizen, as it is, for example. will be the case if it is a citizen with dementia or brain damage. So the possibility is already there today. Having said all that, it is clear that we must pay close attention to whether the rules work properly and, of course, the use of digital self-service and the proper functioning of the use of exemptions must be kept under constant review. With these words, therefore, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. I would also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that the Conservative People's Party also has the same position on this issue as the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132812	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Morten Marinus as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407132822	Thank you. In the autumn of 2014, we had a question debate here in Parliament at the request of the Danish People's Party about forced digital mail, precisely because we in the Danish People's Party believe that it should be easier to be exempted from digital mail, but not only in that area, but in all areas at once. If you have been exempted as a citizen, then it is also the position of the Danish People's Party that you are also, of course, exempt from various self-service solutions when you have to communicate the other way with the public authorities. An exemption should therefore cover everything and should not be limited in time in two years, as it is for some people today, but should be permanently exempted and then have the possibility of personal assistance and services for citizens' services. Digitalisation and the introduction of NemID and digital mail should actually facilitate the everyday life of citizens. Yet there are 33 1⁄2% who are in a study by Wilke for Avisen.dk reply that they think that contact with the government has become more difficult. At least it hasn't gotten any easier, they answer. That is also what I asked the Minister for Finance and what his position was on it. The study therefore believes that it is a shortage of staff, forced digitisation and a self-service system that is too bureaucratic for ordinary people, which is why more and more people are experiencing digitalisation as more difficult than was actually intended. I understand that the Danish Digitalization Authority just thinks that the Danes should get used to the new way of communicating. In the Danish People's Party, however, we recognise that there can be groups and people who cannot get used to this. We also recognise that there is a majority that can find out and can fit in with this forced digitalisation. In fact, we believe that there are a great many citizens who are using it today and think it is easy in everyday life that you can just get on the computer and see what is going on with the various public authorities and communicate with them. However, we must also note that we are becoming increasingly dependent on the digital media, and that this also leads to some disadvantages in other contexts, and that this is probably why we see 33 1⁄2%. responds that they do not think that communication with the public sector has improved. But this is the development that is said in Denmark. We cannot resist that, there are some who say and that it is difficult to resist it. That is just where we in the Danish People's Party do not agree. We want to put our foot down on this forced tyranny, because does everyone really have the opportunity to access computers from 15 years of age until they die when they have to keep up with the various public authorities? We feel deeply offensive that you do not have the freedom to choose whether to communicate digitally or otherwise. Of course, we think that this should be an option rather than an opt-out and that something should not be forced to digitalise over the citizens' heads. With the system we have today, it seems that it is the system before the people. At least it's not voluntary. It's coercion, and we think we should do something about it. In the Danish People's Party we therefore believe that digital mail and various self-service options for citizens should be an opportunity, not a duty. We therefore support any proposal that ensures that the individual citizen can decide for himself whether he or she wants to create a digital mailbox and use digital self-service. We believe that the forced introduction of digital mail and self-service solutions by many citizens is seen as an interference in personal freedom and a significant restriction on the ability of citizens to communicate personally and enter into dialogue with the authorities. We therefore support this motion for a resolution that people seeking exemption from digital mail should also generally be exempted from the use of various digital self-service solutions and that the exemption should not be limited in time for some as it is today and that we should not ask time and time again to be exempted from various things and seek extensions. In short, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133219	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133224	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party whether it is not true that the Danish People's Party voted in favour of mandatory digital self-service when we adopted the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133240	There have been several different proposals. I can say that the first proposal was of course L 160, the proposal for digital mail, and the Danish People's Party voted against it. Since then, it has come in waves, which things should come under digital self-service, and we have voted in favour of those proposals, but also with comments that it should be easier to be exempted from these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133300	Mrs Karin Gaardsted will say nothing more. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133313	With this motion for a resolution, B 72, an automatic exemption from digital self-service is proposed if you are exempt from digital mail. At first glance, the proposal looks very logical and takes account of those citizens who, for various reasons, cannot use a computer. However, it must be borne in mind that there is a difference between being exempt from digital mail and being able to use a self-service solution. The exception to digital mail may be due to a variety of factors, such as: a lack of computer, language problems, various forms of disability. Thus, the exception to digital mail is only granted by the municipality in cases where it is assessed that the citizen concerned will in all likelihood not open its digital mail and thus not receive the necessary information from the municipality. There are, as the Minister of Finance said, about half a million citizens today who are actually exempt from receiving digital mail. When you need a digital self-service solution, you will be able to get help with this on a citizen service by an employee on the phone or on the site where computers are also available, as is the case in most libraries. Having said that, I must be the first to admit that not all current self-service solutions are equally easy to apply. I was sitting, for example. with my father of 82 years of age here at Easter and had to report the craftsman allowance for 2014, but we never actually got access to the form in which to do this. So now he's gonna have to call SKAT and see what he's gonna do. By the way, my father is one of these half a million people who are excluded from digital mail, but he's actually trying to use digital self-service on his computer. And things are actually going better and better, even though he has never used a computer in his working life. However, if you want exemption from using specific self-service solutions at Payout Denmark and there can certainly be good reasons for this, you must first apply for this exemption from a municipality. And I agree with that, it seems a mess. That is why there is also an amendment from the Minister for Social Affairs to L 148 that we should have a more flexible system for this issue. With regard to the second part of the motion for a resolution to allow municipalities to grant a permanent exemption from digital mail, I would say that this is already possible. Some 350,000 citizens have that opportunity today. So, on the basis of those remarks, the Radical Left cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133541	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133551	The Enhedslisten's proposal is sympathetic. After all, it intends to make life easier for citizens who are not on the digital wave by making it easier to be exempt from digital self-service solutions. However, I would also like to say that it is very good that we are about to adopt the fourth and last part of the digitisation strategy. This means that the vast majority will be 80% if everything goes according to plan of applications, notifications and notifications received by the public authorities will become digital. This makes contact with the public easier and more effective for both the public and the vast majority of citizens. Having said that, from the start of the digitalisation of the public sector, it has been crucial that we take into account those citizens who are not on the digital wave. We know that not all citizens have the knowledge and motivation to use digital opportunities. That is why we in the SF are pleased that the authorities are committed to providing holistic help and guidance to those who need it. In addition, it is important that we follow the implementation of the digitisation strategy and listen to the feedback from the municipalities and, in particular, the organisations. Among other things: Elders Sagen and the National Association of Social Pedagogues, as we have heard, have a very good knowledge of groups that can experience challenges in the expansion of the digital universe, so we must of course listen to them. I think that the current rules take quite good account of citizens who do not want to be part of digitalisation. They have the opportunity to be exempted from digital mail and digital self-service solutions, and that is how I think it should remain. However, I also believe that everyone, regardless of digital skills and prerequisites, should be given the opportunity to learn about the digital universe. I would rather we offer help and support rather than cutting off citizens who are not immediately inclined to do so. Some people may actually have the courage to learn. Just because you have once said no to digitalisation does not mean that you never have the courage to try. So SF fully supports the ongoing digitisation strategy. However, we also support the fact that the system must be on the basis of the citizens, and that is why we must take into account those who need help, support or exemption. We'd like to help bore out this proposal and gain a little more concrete knowledge about the extent of the problem that Enhedslisten is trying to solve in a sympathetic way. How many citizens experience great genes by having to show up personally to be exempt from digital self-service solutions? And how big are the genes? How extensive and time consuming is it for the municipalities to re-examine cases of exemption from digital self-service every two years? In any case, we would have liked to have raised these issues in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133818	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407133826	The current resolution contains two elements. One is that citizens who are exempt from digital mail should also automatically be exempted from digital self-service. The second is that the exemption from digital mail must be permanent and not temporary. To the last point first: it is already possible that the exemption from digital mail can be permanent and not only temporary. The possibility is used. It's a decision of the municipality. So the proposal here does not seem to be necessary in the real world. The first point equates the reception of digital mail with digital self-service. We do not see that there is the comparability of the two things. It is true that if you do not have sufficient characteristics or equipment at home to be able to receive digital mail, then you should be able to be exempted from it. You don't know when digital mail will arrive. But it is not true that it should then lead to exemption when you know that you need to submit a form to the municipality, because you can do so in the library, with the help of the neighbour, with the help of the son or down at the municipal office when you need it. So you don't have to be relieved from that from the start. If you have problems with it, you can be exempted on a case-by-case basis, and that is fine as it is. So we are not going to vote in favour of this resolution. It seems to us that the legislation is fine as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407134016	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407134022	Thank you for that and first of all thank you to Parliament's parties for the debate here. It is quite true that our proposal is about citizens who have been exempted from receiving digital mail from the public sector being automatically exempted from using the many digital self-service solutions that are now also mandatory today. If you have followed this debate, you will know that it is no secret that on the Enhedslisten side we most certainly saw that it was entirely voluntary to use digital mail and digital self-service. We think that there is more freedom in it than making these solutions compulsory, but a large majority has decided that this should not be the case. It must be compulsory to take advantage of those solutions. However, the possibility of exemption from the postal service has been introduced if, for example, it is not possible to provide for an exemption from the postal service. do not have access to the Internet where you live, or if you do not have a computer, or if for some reason you cannot operate a computer. This is the idea that this motion for a resolution is working on. Today, if you have obtained an exception to digital mail, you also have to apply for a separate exemption from each individual self-service solution that you need to use. This applies to applications for aids, heating aid, housing aid, relocation, etc. etc. This is difficult and difficult for the people involved, both for the individual citizen, who has to seek several times, but also for municipalities and civic service centres, who have to deal with several applications from the same citizen, where the result will often be the same. The Elders case has raised that criticism. They often meet the citizens to whom this is about and tell us that the consequences are actually quite serious, because what they see is that a group of older citizens completely give up applying for the benefits they are otherwise entitled to, because they cannot find their way around this system, can't find out what they have of opportunities, and thus never go to community service and get the help they could otherwise get. The Elders case, moreover, supports this proposal and this solution and has proposed it itself, so there is at least support for it. It is also quite true, as has been the case in the debate here, that the municipality of Aalborg has also raised the same criticism. Aalborg's mayor said in February that he hoped that it would be possible to grant such a general exemption so that you could be free from what he called a circus as it is today. As I mentioned in the debate, there are also a large number of the managers who are in civil service who have asked for this solution. It would ease their everyday lives. Just to put some figures on it is alone in Aalborg Municipality about 17,000 elderly people who are exempt from digital mail. So it is quite a lot of citizens who have to turn repeatedly. I think that in the debate we have heard here today, what is the system's approach to this problem is too strong. In other words, it is convenient for the system to be approached repeatedly. It makes it difficult to resign, and it is cheaper for the system if people do not. But that is not in the interests of the citizens. This is not the citizens' perspective, which I think has been the starting point for the debate here today. I have also tried to launch some kind of tiny compromise, namely that one could not make a completely automatic transition between being exempt from one and then becoming one, but that one could give the municipalities the opportunity where one considered it relevant. I have to say that I find it rather difficult to understand that such a relatively small and modest change, which would probably make it possible to save some money, cannot bring together a majority in the Folketing, but that must be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407134405	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407134431	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday, 9 April 2015. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen, for the reasons given.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407134449	Thank you. This debate is about the city of Kobani in northern Syria. Here, courageous Kurdish women and men resisted attacks by ISIL for months. I think their brave fight has impressed us all. The fight cost a lot of lives. Today the city is freed, but houses, schools, hospitals and shops have been destroyed. 70%, yeah, maybe 80%. of the city is destroyed. In houses, ISIL has hidden mines that blow up returned refugees. Underneath the rubble lies killed warriors from ISIL. The spring sun and the rising heat therefore create the danger of an epidemic in the city if the bodies are not removed. Kobani, through the hard fights, became a symbol of the fight against ISIL. Now the question is whether the city will also be a symbol of victory. That is why this debate is so important today. A reconstruction of Kobani will make the city a symbol of victory over ISIL. If the city remains in ruins, it will show the people of Syria and the people of Iraq that opposition to ISIL is useless, because even a victory ends in ruin. I visited the border with Kobani three weeks ago. Here I celebrated together with tens of thousands of refugees from the city of Kurdish New Year. Everyone I talked to wanted to go back to town. In fact, some have already done so, but they cannot then return to Turkey. The border is closed to reconstruction materials, closed to aid organisations. The Red Cross has also complained about this in Denmark most recently. This blockade makes reconstruction impossible. We often talk about helping refugees in their neighbourhood. Right now there are about 200,000 refugees from Kobani near the border of the destroyed city. ISIL is well away from the city, but reconstruction is being prevented by the Turkish Government, which keeps the border closed. The political reluctance that is currently preventing Kobani's reconstruction is what we are discussing today. That is why this debate is so important. It is about ensuring that 200 000 refugees can be helped in the neighbourhood. It is about contributing to Kobani becoming a symbol that opposition to ISIL leads to victory. It is about reaching out a helping hand to people whose greatest desire is to rebuild their hometown. I look forward to the debate; I look forward to hearing what the government and Parliament will do in concrete terms to ensure that the border with Kobani is opened.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407134741	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407134751	Thank you to Enhedslisten for focusing on the situation in Kobane and in Syria. It is, of course, one of the great tragedies of our time which should therefore also be discussed regularly in this matter. Let me therefore also begin by stressing the great threat and challenge that the ISIL terrorist group continues to pose in Syria and Iraq, for the region and for the rest of the world. Denmark, together with the international community, has reacted decisively with a broad and comprehensive effort ranging from a strengthened Danish contribution against violent extremism over diplomatic and economic instruments to a military contribution in the international coalition. International action has been the case not least with the air strikes along with the struggle of the Iraqis, Syrians and Kurds on land against ISIL. And Kobane is important in this context, not because the city is particularly large or strategically crucial, but because it quickly became an important symbol of the fight against ISIL. Kobane was the first very visible defeat for the terrorist group when, in January of this year, ISIL was pushed back from the city, which was liberated by Kurdish forces supported by the coalition's air strike. Liberation, however, has had a very high price. Kobane is to a large extent ruined by the fighting. In addition, there are reports that ISIL has laid mines and improvised explosives in large parts of the city, which, according to reports, has already caused more deaths. The information on the many mines in the city is reported both from the UN Office for Humanitarian Affairs and from Danish humanitarian partners with activities in the area. In practice, mining means that the area must first be cleaned up and secured before the refugees can return and before anything similar to normal life can resume in the city. This is also underlined by the fact that the Kobanekanton leadership in their February report on current and essential needs in Kobane writes that refugees from Kobane will not be able to return to the city and surrounding villages until all bombs and explosives have been removed. The report describes how ISIL has stored explosives in bedrooms and kitchens to cause maximum damage to the city's inhabitants when they return. Efforts are therefore currently being made to remove mines and explosives in Kobane, where the UN and Danish organisations with the support of the Danish government are also involved. At the same time, the UN stresses that ISIL is only 25-30 km away from the city. There is therefore still a real risk that ISIL will try to retake Kobane. It is therefore important, according to the UN, that the refugees are not invited to return until it is safe to stay in the city. OCHA, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, assumes that approx. 15.00-2000 000 people have returned to Kobane, of which the vast majority are men. The liberation of Kobane is an important symbolic victory over ISIL. However, it is necessary to take the fight against ISIL in a broader perspective and not only to focus on the contribution of individual cities or groups of people to the overall mission. ISIL is a threat to anyone who does not share the group's extreme ideology. Both Christians, Kurds, Shiamuslims, Yazidians and Turkmen, but also other Sunni Muslims, have been affected by ISIL's brutality, which in several ways has the character of actual ethnic cleansing. Thousands have been displaced as a result of ISIL's ravage both from Kobane and a large number of other areas. To sum up, these are massive challenges that ISIL, in addition to the Syrian regime's attacks, has triggered by its terror. That is why we need a broad range of humanitarian and coalition measures. The situation in Syria remains so bad that Syrians are primarily fleeing There are now about 4 million Syrian refugees in Syria's neighbouring countries and Egypt. This means that almost a fifth of the Syrian people have crossed Syria's borders fleeing from the horrors and horrors of war. In addition, 7.6 million Syrians have been displaced within Syria with limited means of seeking protection and security outside its borders. Jordan and Lebanon have largely closed their borders because they cannot deal with more refugees, either politically, economically or in terms of security. The same applies to Iraq, which, in addition to nearly 250 000 Syrian refugees, must meet the needs of now 2.5 million internally displaced persons. Turkey remains, then, the only neighbouring country which, since the turn of the year, has kept borders more or less permanently open and provided protection for families fleeing from ISIL and Assad. To date, Turkey has received over 1.7 million registered refugees from Syria • 150,000 only in the first 2 months of 2015. Turkey is therefore now the world's largest country of refugees at all. It should give recognition and respect from Denmark and from the world community as a whole. At the same time, Turkey is providing comprehensive humanitarian aid for interventions in Syria. In 2013, Turkey was the world's most generous humanitarian donor, measured as a percentage of GNI. Denmark was on the same list no. 5 and thus make a great effort. One of the main restrictions on the safe return of people to Kobane is, as the rapporteur has said, the large number of explosives and the mining of the area by ISIL. The government thus has during the last grant to Danish humanitarian NGOs, among others. supported mine clearance activities in and around Kobane. In addition, the People's Church's Emergency Aid has received support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for so-called risk education activities in northern Syria to protect the civilian population from injury through contact with explosives. The government is therefore already making efforts to ensure that refugees can return in the long term. And, in addition, it is obviously crucial that building materials and other equipment to be used to rebuild Kobane can be transported across the border. Nevertheless, it will take time for refugees themselves to return safely. Overall, Denmark has provided substantial support to the Syrian civilian population and Syrian refugees. In humanitarian aid alone, Denmark has already achieved almost a billion. kr. In addition, the government, as analysed by the Minister for Trade and Development at the Kuwait Conference last week, has allocated a further 75 million. kr. to interventions during the year based on the development of needs in Syria and neighbouring countries. In addition, we also support development efforts. In Syria, we are contributing 100 million. kr. annually to stabilise the situation in the areas controlled by the moderate Syrian opposition and with a number of interventions in the neighbourhood. For Iraq, preparations are being made at the present time. a new Danish 3 year development programme for 75 million. kr. The programme is expected, inter alia, to: to focus on free media, legal relationships and civil society. On the basis of the significant Danish assistance to Syria and neighbouring countries, Denmark is also in a credible position to encourage Syria's neighbouring countries to continue to keep the borders open for refugees in need. At the same time, it is essential that Turkish border policy cannot be exploited by foreign fighters who go to Syria to participate in the fighting on the side of ISIL and other extremist groups. This is something I constantly point out in my bilateral talks with Turkish partners, but we also need to understand the complexity of this task. On the one hand, Turkey must remain an open and attractive tourist destination with widespread visa freedom and 38 million tourists a year, and, on the other hand, it must avoid becoming a transit country for foreign fighters that will fight for ISIL or other extremist groups in Syria. That is why Turkey has also tightened up the safety and control of it approx. 911 km long border with Syria, which has been historically characterised by lively trade, cross-border family ties and cross-border interaction. In addition, cooperation with partners in the fight against foreign fighters to Syria via Turkey has been strengthened and optimised from the Turkish side. It is clear that this effort can always be improved, and it is therefore also a subject that I and the rest of the government will continue to raise with the Turkish Government when we meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407135656	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We shall now proceed to the debate. That is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407135715	Thank you. I would, of course, like to begin by commending the Foreign Minister for having taken the initiative that Denmark should now contribute with mine clearance. I hope this help can come out, that this help can cross the border. Unfortunately, there are grounds for concern as to whether this could be the case. The second day in politics, the Red Cross sounded the alarm, because they cannot enter Kobani with emergency aid; the Turkish Government keeps the border closed. In other words, the Danish Secretary-General of the Red Cross said that humanitarian aid to Kobani has been politicised, and unfortunately we, as Parliament, have to deal with this, because unfortunately the problems are not only for the Red Cross; the problems of the Red Cross are unfortunately not unique. When I visited the border three weeks ago, I spoke to the elected woman president of the Kobanicanton, and she said that all other relief organisations also have problems and that they are often rejected. She said that reconstruction material is being rejected at the border, that only a few foods can be allowed to pass. We have to deal with this problem, fortunately there are others who have also dealt with it. The situation is that on 26 March the Council of Europe Congress of Regional and Local Authorities adopted a declaration calling for the Kobani border to be opened and for a humanitarian corridor to be set up. In the past, we have seen that the UN has called for the opening of the city. I think it is absolutely crucial that we listen to the Red Cross alarm that we listen to the alarm from the refugees and the Kobani authorities that we hear them. Last week, Asya Abdullah visited Parliament. Asya Abdullah was one of the brave women who led the defence of Kobani, and she visited and met representatives of Foreign Policy Name and the Foreign Affairs Committee here in the Folketing. At this meeting, she told me that about 20 people have died after returning to their houses. Today it can be read in Berlingske that the number is probably up to 40 or 40 people who have now died. It is people who are being blown up by mines, which are located by ISIL to make the reconstruction of the city impossible. Specifically, for example, Asya told us. About a mother, a mother of three, who had returned home with her children. She had returned to their house in a village outside Kobani, which, fortunately, had not been destroyed, but when she lifted the covers to the bed her old bed, which was still standing there, lay a mine and all four perished. It is therefore positive that the government is now joining forces and will contribute to the clearing of mines through the People's Church's Emergency Aid, and we warmly support this on the part of the Enhedslisten. Under the rubble, it is estimated that there are about 1,000 warriors from ISIL. The roasting sun can quickly spread diseases. You can't lift tons of rubble with your bare hands. It takes machines. Those machines were once in Kobani, but they don't work anymore because they're destroyed. If they are to cross the border, they will require the Turkish Government's permission. If refugees from Syria are to be helped in their neighbourhood, political action is required from Denmark. It takes political courage from us here in the Folketing to help them not to be blown to pieces, but to ensure that our talk of help in the neighbourhood is not just empty words or even excuses for not helping the refugees who come to this country, and it must be action that we put behind our words. Kobani is now too dangerous to return to, and Kobani will continue to be too dangerous to return to unless pressure is put on the Turkish Government. If the mines are not removed, the refugees cannot rebuild the city they so courageously defended. I hope it will be possible for the People's Church's Emergency Aid to be allowed to cross the border by the Turkish authorities. This will be positive and it will be a clear change in the situation that has unfortunately been so far. That is why I think it is vital that we adopt today, on the part of the Danish Parliament, a clear demand for the Turkish Government to open the border. I saw at the border three weeks ago that there is a large civil society, that there is a great willingness in the Kurdish part of Turkish society to rebuild the city, to contribute, but that you just do not have the opportunity. Unfortunately, the situation was that while the Kurds were defending Kobani, they were opposed by the Turkish Government, which would rather see the Kurds in the city come down with their necks than ISIL being fought. Now the reconstruction is being thwarted. I believe that Denmark should contribute to the reconstruction of Kobani. I think it is positive that the government will now use our world-renowned expertise from mine clearance, and I believe that that effort will make a difference if it is allowed to get through. It requires international pressure on the Turkish Government, the pressure that Denmark should exert, and the pressure that Denmark should work to create internationally, the pressure that the Danish Parliament and the government at home should follow up on, because that pressure has already been exerted by the Council of Europe, and they must be supported, and that pressure must be increased. I think we should listen to the alarm bells from the Red Cross, I think we should listen to the alarm bells from the Kurds in Kobani, and I think we should help the refugees rebuild their city. That is why we from Enhedslisten make the following points: Proposals for adoption • After many months of hard fighting, ISIL has been successfully thrown out of Kobane. But the price has been high. Many of the city's defenders have been killed, the infrastructure has been destroyed, and 80%. of the city lies in ruins. Therefore, because refugees must be helped to return home, the Danish Parliament instructs the government to work to ensure that the Turkish border with Kobane is immediately opened to humanitarian aid and reconstruction materials. The government should use all international forums, including the United Nations and the Council of Europe, to put pressure on Turkey to allow such a humanitarian corridor. • V 39).
ParlaMint-DK_20150407140333	That's what Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen read out proposals for adoption are part of the further negotiations. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Pind as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407140402	If Kobane and Syria are to return to a peaceful place to live and live, it will require two things: it will require the removal of President Assad and it will require the defeat of the terrorist movement ISIL. The last point of view is supported by a very large majority in the Folketing, which is behind the decision on a Danish F-16 contribution to Iraq. As you know, the Enhedslisten voted against this contribution. Most recently, Enhedslisten has run a campaign on Facebook to highlight what a waste of money it is to help fight down one of the worst terrorist organisations we have ever met. The money, is the point of view, is better spent on home care than on fighting an organisation that rapes, mutilates and burns its victims alive... an organisation that has the main responsibility for the chaos in Kobane that has driven the people on the run. Now Enhedslisten asks the government what needs to be done. It could be that one should start by discussing it internally in the Assembly Group of Enhedslisten rather than in the Assembly, because here one would rather spend money on home help rather than fighter planes, just as one in the Enhedslisten believes that ISIL should be combated with dialogue and neighbourly love rather than with fighters. If nothing else, it is a task that other countries must take on. You can mean what you want, but frankly, you can't have both views. I have the feeling that Enhedslisten is solely concerned with the Kurdish question. It may also be important, but ignores the major issue of how to stop the macabre bloodbath in Syria, which has led to in the vicinity of a quarter of a million killed and sent over 10 million on the run. In Ban Ki-moon's words, this is the worst humanitarian disaster of our time. The country's Minister for Development has used the phrase: It is a disaster of biblical dimensions. Whether he is referring to the seven plagues, salt pillars or anything else, I do not know, but the words should certainly impress everyone. But apparently not here. This applies to the principle of being a Kurd, you have solidarity, but if you are not, you are left to yourself. In the Left, we support an active Danish commitment to Iraq and Syria. Peace in Syria, including in Kobane, requires ISIL to be defeated. That is why we support the international military operation to combat ISIL. We are doing so with our own aircraft in Iraq, and we are giving political support to the American-led air attacks in Syria, which include: has been a prerequisite for the rebels in Kobane to defeat ISIL. On the other hand, we in the government lack an understanding of the role of President Assad in Syria. He is personally responsible for many more killings than ISIL is, but it is as if that part of the discussion is not appropriate. The fight against ISIL cannot be won by the West alone; it requires the involvement of regional players. That is why we support the part of the government's efforts to ensure that the countries of the region are involved in the fight and actively contribute to improving the situation. This applies, in particular, to Turkey's role, which is absolutely crucial with the border on, among other things, Turkey. Kobane. Here, together with our allies, Denmark must exert diplomatic pressure. As rapporteur for the Left, I have nothing more to add. A proposal for adoption will be submitted. It will be read out by the Social Democrat rapporteur, but we will meet here in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407140808	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407140812	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The crucial issue that we are really discussing today is, of course, what we need to do to rebuild Kobani. This is an important point, since it is a great defeat that ISIL has suffered here. The city is therefore a symbol of the fight against ISIL, and it can also be a symbol of a victory over ISIL. I believe that anyone who wants ISIL to do something bad and who wants peace and democracy has the advantage of having symbolic victories and important and concrete victories in that fight. That is why I would like to hear from the Left: can the Left support the Enhedslisten's proposal that pressure be put on Turkey to open the border so that reconstruction can take place and refugees can return?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407140901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407140903	Our view is that Turkey is doing very much what Turkey can. In addition, we have to discuss the situation and try to resolve these issues, among others. by means of humanitarian aid in which we support the government. But the thing is, you can choose to focus on Kobani alone. However, this leads, I think, to a blindness to the real situation in Syria, where, among other things, we find ourselves. can hear the Foreign Minister of the country say that now we must cooperate with Assad. To that there is just to say that it is not a solution. There are two parties that need to be combated in this context. One side is ISIL and the other side is Assad, for Assad has the main responsibility for the vast majority of the refugee flows that are problematic for Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141002	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141003	I think it is important to discuss the situation in Syria. It is important to discuss solutions to the problems in Syria. The discussion today is just how to ensure the reconstruction of Kobani, and I think we need to deal with that debate. I would urge the Left to do so. The situation is such that we have the Secretary-General of the Red Cross who says that the Red Cross cannot access Kobani because the humanitarian situation has been politicised by the Turkish Government, which is keeping the border closed. Should not pressure be put on the Turkish Government to open the border and rebuild the city? It is absolutely incomprehensible to me that the Left, which often talks about helping refugees in the neighbourhood, does not want to put pressure on the Turkish Government so that refugees can be helped in their vicinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141055	Sir. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141056	We believe, however, that Turkey is taking a great deal of action in this regard, and then a NATO alliance will have to discuss the situation as it is now. There is a big difference between that view and demanding that the international community put pressure on a NATO alliance. I do not think there is any immediate reason for this. But if the government comes back to us and asks if it would be a good idea, then we will be willing to listen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141124	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141127	I'd like to know if Mr. Søren Pind believes that because they are NATO allies, we must treat them in a special way and then we cannot make the same demands and that in that case it may mean that we cannot get in with emergency aid, that we cannot get in with mine clearance, that we cannot get in with building materials. Is it not necessary that we say things as they are, whether they are NATO allies or not NATO allies?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141155	I expect a great deal from a NATO alliance. I therefore expect a great deal from the free discussions which can take place in a friendly manner among allies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141207	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141208	But if Mr. Søren Pind expects a great deal from NATO allies, why is it so wrong to decide in the Folketing that we expect it and that we would like to encourage everyone to be involved in ensuring that when it turns out to be notorious that the borders are closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141229	My own view of this matter is that there is a strong need for Turkey, in this situation, to be maintained as an ally, and that is why the fight must be conducted as well as possible within that framework. But, of course, negotiations and discussions can be held. But the Enhedslisten's such beating into the air and Marx-warrior approach we probably don't have in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141254	Sir. Frank Aaen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141255	Now it's from friends that you need to hear the good advice. That is why I would just like to ask whether the Left supports that we give Turkey the good advice that when the Red Cross says that they cannot come in with the necessary emergency aid for Kobani, we believe that Turkey must change its policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141318	My basic view is that, as the Constitution also states, that part of foreign policy is conducted by the government. If the government comes to us and says they think it's a good idea, we'll take it kindly. But until then, it is not something that we will deal with in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141336	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141338	Does this mean that the Left believes it is a good idea for Denmark to say to Turkey: Now you must ensure that the emergency aid can come in to Kobani and not set up any more stop blocks so that the Red Cross cannot enter?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141352	That means what I'm saying. This means that the government in this matter is best placed to assess what serves the higher cause and has a better insight into the diplomatic ramifications than we have as a political party in the Folketing. And so we will reserve our position until the government may come and consult with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141412	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Morten Bødskov as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407141427	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by saying that, of course, in all its simplicity, but indeed, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed, in its complexity, I will be able to agree with the statement. There can be no doubt that we all want the horrors that we have seen unfolding in Syria, and for that matter also in Iraq, led by the terrorist organization ISIL, stopped. And that is why, of course, the Socialists are also pleased that, at least until now, in what we have done here in the Assembly on this matter, we have had even very broad support for a very broad-based effort. ISIL represents nothing but evil, and that is why they must be fought as such. ISIL is a threat to all of us, and Kobani, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has also proved to be a symbol of the fight against ISIL. The horrors that have developed in and around the city are almost unimaginable. It is important, of course, that we do what we can because, even now that ISIL has been driven out of the city as the success story it has been, we must take care of the subsequent work. Fortunately, the broad-based effort has already shown results. Not least, the efforts of the international community and the coalition around Kobani have been important in this context. It stands as a symbol that the fight against ISIL is far from in vain, but ISIL must be fought as what I started by saying, namely evil. ISIL's been squeezed out of town now. They are pressed back from the city, but no longer than that it is part of the assessment of what we do from here. And if you listen, as the Foreign Minister said, to the United Nations, then the concern about the situation is still present here, and we should lean on that. We should listen to the United Nations when they point out that some of what ISIL has done has been the construction of mines, explosives and other things at the risk of potentially recurring citizens. We must lean on that when we decide how to get people back as safe as possible. Because, as I said, ISIL is not far away from the city, which is why we need to be aware of it. The effort that Denmark is behind is an effort which is broad-spectrum and which is important. It is because ISIL is not just a threat to the local area we are discussing here, but, as I said, it is a threat to all of us. This is a threat based on an extreme ideology, which has unfortunately been found to catch many people and which means that the effort must be broad-spectrum. For this reason, Denmark, on a broad front in the humanitarian, military and reconstruction fields, also supports a broad-ranging effort in dialogue with the countries around Syria. The horrors are huge. Syria now has millions and millions of internally displaced persons. The countries around Syria are taking millions of refugees. Many, many hundreds of thousands have fled to Europe, and this just underlines the need for us to continue to have a broad range of efforts. Then there is the question of Turkey and the border with Turkey, which the Enhedslisten also raises. Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I think it is worth noting that Turkey actually takes very great responsibility. When it comes to the flow of refugees, Turkey takes a great many refugees. In comparison with the humanitarian efforts of the other international community in Syria, Turkey is also doing a great deal of work here. As the Foreign Minister said, in 2013 Turkey was worldwide the most generous humanitarian donor measured as a percentage of GDP. Denmark was in fifth place on the same list and on the same scale. We must take this into account when discussing the issue of Turkey's role in the aftermath of the Kobani conflict. It is a balance when we talk about Turkey in that situation. On the one hand, we must ensure that we can continue to have a dialogue on challenges with Turkey. On the other hand, we must ensure that among other things. Turkey's border policy is not being exploited, as the Foreign Minister rightly said, by the problem of foreign fighters, which will further destabilise the region. In those words, as I said, the Socialists can endorse the statement by the Foreign Minister and, if I may, President, I will read out a proposal for adoption by the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party. It sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the government's statement on the situation in Kobane, Turkey's handling of the refugee issue and the Danish humanitarian contribution to dealing with the crisis in Syria. Parliament also takes note of the refugee situation and stresses the importance of the reconstruction of Kobane and the return of refugees when circumstances permit. The Danish Parliament supports the government's position that international action against the terrorist group ISIL should continue to be broadly based with a strong Danish contribution, both humanitarianly and as a member of the international coalition against ISIL. At the same time, Parliament stresses that the countries of the region, including Turkey, contribute actively and constructively to improving the situation. • V 40).
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142052	Thank you. That's what Mr. Morten Bødskov read out proposals for adoption on behalf of seven parties will be included in the further debate. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142105	Thank you. It is clear that the warnings of the United Nations must be heeded. The problem is that the UN's warning to the refugees not to return to Kobani can become a permanent warning if it is not ensured that it is possible to return to the city, that is, if it is not ensured that cemeteries that can remove the rubble can enter the mines. That is why we must also take the Red Cross alarm so seriously. Otherwise, Kobani can be a symbol of the fact that one can conquer ISIL, but one's city will remain a ruin, and that would be really, really sad for the fight that is taking place right now. So I would like to hear the government, of which the Social Democratic Party is part, if you do not want to listen to the Left. The Left said right now: if there is a signal from the government that we have to put pressure on the Turkish Government to open the border, then the Left will support it; until then we will remain passive. This means, of course, that the government has the opportunity to bring together a very, very broad majority in the Folketing today, if the Social Democrats and the government so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142223	Measured on Mr. Søren Pind's reaction from down here, I'm not quite sure about that. I don't know about Mr. Søren Pind's reaction. Søren Pind feels covered by the question that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is quiet. I can say that there is no question whatsoever of either the Social Democratic Party or the Government, I assume, of allowing Kobani to become a symbol of chaos. On the contrary, the Danish effort on Kobani has also been very ambitious, as the Foreign Minister also explained. On a broad front there is support: humanitarian in nature; the issue of refugees is being addressed; aid from the Danish Government is being given a great deal, both in Syria and also in the countries around Syria; and, above all, military action is also being taken. So there is no reason to try to draw a picture that someone is going to leave it at all. On the contrary, I think that all the signals are that we are working towards the restoration of stability and that we can get the building started. But it is clear that you have to listen to the UN, and when the UN says that it is dangerous that people come back because the areas have been mined, then you have to listen to it. Anything else would be wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142343	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142345	Now it's been two and a half months since ISIL was chased out of Kobani. In other words, for two and a half months, the Syrian Government has kept the border closed... the border closed... even though, when I was down there three weeks ago, there had been people who wanted to clear mines that had been rejected. There had been organisations that wanted to contribute with the reconstruction which had been rejected. Why should there not be pressure? Why should there not be political pressure on the Turkish Government, as decided by the Council of Europe Congress of Regional and Local Authorities? Why not put pressure so that the border can be opened and the UN can come into a situation where you can tell the refugees that they can return? Because if we do not do anything, the refugees will never be able to return.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142434	That is why I do not understand why Enhedslisten does not support the proposal for adoption presented by all parties in the Folketing other than Enhedslisten. Now I'm going to read two paragraphs because they actually contain what Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen says. Section two states: "The Parliament also takes note of the refugee situation and stresses the importance of the reconstruction of Kobani and the return of refugees when circumstances permit. That's the first thing. The next, and at least equally important, is: the Parliament also stresses that the countries of the region, including Turkey, contribute actively and constructively to improving the situation. There's not much difference between what's here and that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen said, and that is why I think that the Enhedslisten should take and endorse that proposal for adoption. It would be a good thing that there would be broad agreement, including on this issue, in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142522	Sir. Christian Juhl, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142526	It is therefore also surprising that the Socialists do not agree with the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption. When conditions allow, it says. What is the reason why the Socialists will not be involved in direct contact with Turkey to contribute to it when it turns out, not only because the Enhedslisten says so, not only because the Kurds say so, but also because the Danish Red Cross says that there is a problem at all in helping where help can be provided?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142557	When circumstances allow it, yes, it is, for example, a reflection on the concerns that come from the United Nations. I assume that Enhedslisten also thinks it is absolutely appropriate to ensure that if you are going back to Kobani, it should not be if you want to, with your life as an effort. There must be clean-up, there must be ready for reconstruction, there must be coordinated and coherent action, and that is what the international community is behind. I have to say that I and the Social Democratic Party are just the right way to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142630	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142632	Yes, and when the stopper in the bottle at the moment is Turkey's closing of the border, what is the reason why you are circling around the problem and not dare to address it and say it directly and instead say it, we do that including your and including that. What is the reason why the Socialists will not be able to say to the Turks directly and openly: there is a problem here; we must get in and secure the area; we must get ready for people to return.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142703	Sir. Christian Juhl, for example. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I think this is the right way to deal with it, because it is the way to create coherent action, and that is what is needed here. This is a task of a scale which, unfortunately, is enormous, which is why it is important that we go together and take advantage of the opportunities for dialogue so that we ensure that the effort we are making hits the spot, if you like, and becomes as good as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142742	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407142758	Thank you very much. I think it is right, as has been said by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, to commend the Kurdish soldiers and the efforts they have made. I believe that without them as ground troops, as land soldiers, but of course with the increasingly strong Iraqi army, we would not have had the situation that we now have, namely that the Islamic State is as cramped as it is. I also think it is important to say that this is a very complicated situation, as everyone knows. In a way, the Turks have kept the border partially open. I understand that around 15 000 of Kobani's inhabitants have returned. They have taken somewhere between 200,000 and 250,000 refugees from the area around Kobani. So Turkey has really made an effort and has done what they could. I believe that Turkey, together with Jordan, is probably the country that has made the most of the humanitarian situation and the reception of refugees. But the situation is complicated. There's a lot about the offer. There are many different interests. There are Syrian troops, there are the Kurdish troops, there are the Islamic State, there are the Western allies, there are Turkey, and everyone has different agendas and different interests. After all, Turkey has the interest that they are naturally interested in keeping the territory as a unit, in other words a geographical unit, such as Turkey. They have been fighting the formation of a Kurdish state for nearly 200 years, and what lies in the Turkish hesitation itself is that they very much do not see the territory changed; that this situation can lead to a real Kurdish state formation. That is to say how Turkey views it. It's not necessarily to say how I feel about it myself. Syria has the same problem with regard to the territory and a geographical unit. They are fighting the IS, and they are hesitant about the Kurds, even though they accept the efforts of the Kurds militaryly. But it's the same thing. It's the same enemy the Kurds have. I don't know if there's any cooperation. I'm sure there's enough military and commercial. I believe that the United States' intelligence service also cooperates with Assad on where to bomb, as the Syrian troops can help with that information. Then there are the Kurds. They are fighting with IS or ISIL, but they are also indirectly fighting for the formation of their own state in Turkey, Syria and Iraq. This is already almost a reality in Iraq. But that's their entrance to it. So I think it is very difficult in what was going on to say what Denmark should do. I think it is essential that we are in the process of mine clearance, which has been mentioned, and that we help humanitarianly wherever possible. And the pressure on Turkey which is being demanded by the Enhedslisten seems to me to be already contained in the joint proposal for adoption, for which the large majority of the Folketing is ready to vote. But it's a jumble, and it's hard to maneuver, and if you help one side, you punish another side. That is the huge problem. I have had discussions in the past with my colleagues here in the Danish Parliament that every time the United States throws a bomb, we support Assad, and this is just a situation that must be accepted. So there's a lot of intersecting interests, and there's a lot of entrances to this very, very complicated situation. However, as I have said, as the broad majority behind it, we can support the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Morten Bødskov read.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143234	A brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143238	Last week just before Easter we had a visit to Parliament and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs by Aisha Abdullah, one of the leading women in the resistance in Kobani. She said that the aim of the Kurds in Syria is not an independent state, it is a democratic Syria. It is a pity that Søren Espersen did not attend that meeting, because the fear that Søren Espersen understands that Turkey has is an unjustified fear. The question we are discussing today is, of course, whether there should be pressure, whether we in the Folketing should demand that Kobani be opened up, or whether we in the Folketing should not demand it, but just hope that it will happen. I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: why will the Danish People's Party not help put pressure on the Turkish Government in this crucial matter, which will lead to helping refugees in the neighbourhood, that is to say, a policy that the Danish People's Party often talks about, but which is also important, that you act on the ground and you have a chance here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143346	In other words, I have not expressed any understanding of Turkey's position. I have just explained how the Turks view it, just as I have tried to explain how the other parties in this matter view it. And, as I said, the pressure that must be put on the Turks to perhaps open up the possibility of sending building materials, etc., seems to me to be already contained in the large proposal for adoption, for which a majority in the Folketing is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143418	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143420	I would say that Søren Espersen now saw that the claim made by Turkey that the Kurds will separate themselves from the rest of Syria is wrong, and that is why we can then act. And the situation is that it just does not say what Søren Espersen is reading into that proposal for adoption. The motion for a resolution, which the Danish People's Party is apparently going to vote for, simply does not say that Turkey should be required to open the border, so why not? So, isn't it boundless naive to think that a Turkish government that has kept this border closed for two and a half months should suddenly start opening it if we don't demand it? And should not the Danish People's Party demand this precisely if it really means something by saying that refugees should be helped in the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143512	However, I think that refugees are being greatly assisted in the neighbourhood, both in Jordan and in Turkey. Then I would like to say about the attitude of the Kurds in northern Syria: what their entrance to it is, I do not know; I can only note that the Kurdish people have been trying to get their own state for over a few hundred years. That's probably what most Kurds want, I could imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143543	Sir. Christian Juhl also has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143547	Thank you. I don't know if sir. Søren Espersen will tell me why, in a situation where it is Turkey and therefore a NATO alliance, it is so problematic to say things directly. In other debates I remember e.g. We have always had to give our opinion consistently and very clearly in a debate on China. What is the reason why the Danish People's Party makes a distinction between NATO allies Turkey and China? Should we not be consistent and clear in our speech to all countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143623	We must certainly say what we mean, and I believe that we have always done that on the part of the Danish People's Party. But I have to say that there is therefore a substantial difference between a NATO alliance and a Communist dictatorship such as China. This must be the case: of course we are talking to Turkey in a different way than we should be talking to Communist China, for example. Tibet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143647	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143649	But in a situation where we cannot even get in and start securing the city of Kobani, in a situation where emergency aid cannot come in, and in a situation where Turkey keeps the borders closed, there is no good reason, of course, for us to say to the NATO ally in a nice and polite way anyway: it would be a very good idea if you opened those borders so that we could get a little bit further and get another breathhole for the incredible number of refugees who are in the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143719	But I understand that almost 15 000, perhaps 20 000, have returned from a refugee life in Turkey to the area around Kobani. So it must also indicate that there is something to return to. I would say that you often have to let something take the time it takes. This situation has not yet been clarified in northern Syria; no one knows when the war is actually going to end. There are areas very, very close to the town of Kobani, where IS stands strong. And as long as the situation is such, it is very difficult to imagine a situation in which Denmark should come in and contribute to the civil construction of such a city.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143803	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, speaking for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143813	I am standing here on behalf of our Foreign Affairs rapporteur, Zenia Stampe, who unfortunately could not be here today. I would like to start by thanking the Enhedslisten for raising the question debate, which is both topical and very relevant. However, as the Foreign Minister's reply indicates, it is also a very complex matter. For although the Kurds and the coalition won the battle of Kobani, the city is not yet safe enough for the refugees to return. This is partly due to the general state of the city, not least the risk of mines, and partly to the continuing fighting in the hinterland of Kobani. The Kobanicanton's leadership has thus established that the city's inhabitants can only return once bombs and explosives have been removed. This work is therefore of the highest priority, and fortunately Danish organisations also contribute to this with support from Denmark. Of course, the prospect is that the refugees should return as soon as possible, but at the same time it is important to maintain the principle that refugees should not be returned to insecure conditions and Kobani is still characterised by great uncertainty. However, we will monitor developments closely and support the security and reconstruction of Kobani, and the Radical Left supports the proposal for adoption which was read out by Mr Kobani. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143928	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407143950	I should first like to thank both the Enhedslisten for putting this question and the Foreign Minister for his answer to the question. I agree with a large part of Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's analysis of the whole situation around Kobani. I fully agree that we owe much to the bravery of the Kurds in the whole fight against the Islamic State. If the Kurds hadn't taken up the fight, where others stuck their tails between their legs, the IS would have stood much stronger today. I also agree that Kobani was a very important symbolic victory. There is discussion about the strategic importance and importance of the city, but in any case it is very, very important that it succeeded, also with the help of American aerial bombardments, to chase IS out of Kobani. However, I would also like to say that I agree with those who have said that the situation in Kobani cannot be separated from the situation in Syria as a whole, and therefore it does not make sense simply to discuss Kobani in isolation from what is happening in Syria and in relation to the Syrian tragedy. For me, there is no doubt whatsoever that the Kurds are a very, very important part of the front to fight the IS, but also, hopefully, part of a front to fight Assad. For what is often forgotten here is that the IS has arisen because of Assad. Assad is the main problem in Syria. It is Assad who has been responsible for the most unparalleled crimes in Syria, and it is Assad who has, if I may say so, laid the foundations for the development of IS, as the IS has done. That is why we need to see the fight against IS and the fight against Assad as two sides of the same coin. That is why I also hope that a broader front can be created between the Kurds and the moderate opposition in Syria and other groupings in order to combat both the IS and the Assad. This is precisely why Turkey's role in this is becoming more tricky. I fully agree that Turkey has been criticised for being more concerned, if I may say so, with its own Kurdish issues than with the fight against the IS. After all, the Enhedslisten has made a great deal of criticism, and we share that too, but we also have to bear in mind, as was also emphasised in the Foreign Minister's speech, that Turkey has played a very important role in the fight against Assad and in supporting the moderate opposition and in dealing with refugee problems in every way possible. That is why we also need to bring Turkey into this joint fight against Assad and against the Islamic State. That is why I think it might be a little pointless to make it a matter of criticising Turkey's role in all this. There are critical points in relation to Turkey, but if we are to look at the whole situation in Syria, it cannot help anything that we are running the line where it is only Turkey that has to play a villain role. That is why I think there is a balance in the Minister's speech on these matters. That is also the case with opening the borders. I must say that I certainly think pressure should be put on the Turkish Government to get some help in when the Red Cross cannot get in when you cannot get in with building materials. I think it is quite unacceptable that it should not be allowed in. I see nothing in these proposals for adoption which contradict the fact that the government cannot tell the Turkish Government. I would even say that it follows on from what we are adopting here today that the government must tell a Turkish Government that the Turkish Government also has a responsibility for the reconstruction of Kobani. I consider that to be completely outside the scope of discussion that this proposal for adoption is based on. However, as the Minister's speech also shows, there is also a balance, because it has something to do with foreign fighters who can enter. If you just open completely, there is also a risk that IS will be strengthened in other ways. After all, we have criticized the Turkish Government in the past for the fact that the border with Syria had been pierced. At least I've been running that criticism several times. It's on Mr. Kevin's hands. Nikolaj Villumsen also drove several times, I know. So that's why we have to find out what we mean by this. In fact, I think that what was said by the Foreign Minister about a balanced approach is right that we should open up a number of areas, but only open up completely, also in relation to what the United Nations has said about the problems that are inside Kobani. It's not sure that's quite right to do. However, I think that this is something that we should follow very, very closely, and I also believe that there are these proposals for adoption, that the government should follow it very, very closely and pay close attention to the • and there I agree with Enhedslisten • that Kobani should be rebuilt, that those people should be able to return to Kobani. It must be the case that when you get a victory over IS, it also makes sense for the safety and welfare of the people afterwards. I want this to be proof of that, too. But I have to say that I do not see that in these proposals for adoption and what has been said by the government there is a contradiction in relation to the wishes of the Enhedslisten as well. So I also do not understand that the Enhedslisten cannot be in favour of the proposal for adoption tabled by a large majority here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144608	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144611	Thank you. There is no doubt that when the government makes a proposal for adoption and says that it wants Kobani to be rebuilt and allows the refugees to return, then there is no contradiction with Turkey opening the border. The problem is, of course, whether Turkey will open the border, and that is where I am surprised that the SF will not support the proposal for adoption that I have put forward, which says this: Turkey must be required to open the border. Why won't the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144644	I believe that this requirement lies in the government's proposal for adoption. I think that, frankly, this is some stick-cuttering that Enhedslisten is out in here. I have to admit that I think it is, and I'm completely out of understanding that you run it up like this. I think, in fact, that there is broad agreement on the Danish Turkish line here in the Folketing, and that is a critical view of it if you do not want to help rebuild Kobani, if you block the Red Cross, etc., and that is quite clear in what was said both by the Minister and also in this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144730	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144731	Thank you. Stickjacking?! Well, the situation is it, and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also welcomes the fact that we have been negotiating this proposal for adoption for days, and it has been made quite clear from the Enhedslisten that there should be a requirement to open the border which is now closed so that we could support it. After all, the government has chosen not to include that requirement, and I assume there's a reason for that. It is because it will not be demanded of the Turkish Government, and then I am surprised that the SF can vote in favour of the proposal for adoption that the government is now putting forward. Why can SF do that? Why not ask the Turkish Government to open the border so that the reconstruction we so want can get under way so that the refugees we want to help can come home and rebuild their city?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144823	Well, I think I explained to you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen earlier. Now I'm not going to explain the government's policy in this area, but our own. I have to understand that the Enhedslisten will open the border completely suddenly, and it is also clear from the Minister's speech that there are warnings from the UN that they will simply open the way for refugees to enter because security is not in order, and that is why it is also a prospect that we are helping to send minebreakers to Kobani. In addition, we need to take into account the issue of foreign fighters, which is there, as we have criticized Turkey in the past for allowing us to enter Syria. It was our previous criticism that the border was hollowed like a sieve and that, if I may say so, ISIL obtained supplies from foreign fighters through Turkey. That is why I also have to take it into account when we talk about opening the border. However, we will support the opening up of the border as much as possible with a view to the introduction of emergency aid so that it can be rebuilt, and that is also in the government's proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144943	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407144945	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen said that Assad was the direct cause of ISIL. I think we should have a talk about this one day, because I now believe that it was precisely the Iraqi Government's mistreatment of its Sunni Position in Iraq that caused groups in Sunni circles to emerge which developed and subsequently played a role in Syria. When we write in our proposal for adoption that the Turkish border with Kobani should immediately be opened to humanitarian aid and reconstruction materials, are we not in line with the SF, and have the SF ensured that the government is also on that line?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145032	Well, I do not think we are so divided, to be quite honest, and therefore I do not understand why we should have two proposals for adoption here today. But I think it's the kind of thing that Enhedslisten would like some self-marking on this question... it's also up to Enhedslisten himself. About IS: Yes, IS has arisen in Iraq, but IS had its breakthrough in Syria because of Assad, for Assad also oppressed and oppressed the Sunni. That is why it is the Assad regime, which is the main reason why ISIL gained the great increase that ISIL received in Syria. And that is why we have to recognise that the fight against ISIL is also a fight against Assad. It can't help anything that we kind of look away from it. That is why I say that we must have a greater front against both devils, both the devilishness that is in IS and the devilishness that is in Assad's regime. We very much hope that the Kurds and the moderate rebels and other groups can come together on such a broad front.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145145	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145146	Yes, but I also asked because I wanted to be sure that we agreed with the SF in the analysis of the situation. That is precisely why we are saying that we are dealing with humanitarian aid and reconstruction materials. And it is also a question, as our rapporteur said earlier, of ensuring that, for example, we do not lose sight of the fact that we are not in a position to do so. Miners can enter the area. There we have to ask the Turks nicely and politely to open the border for the people not to God and every man or ISIL or anyone, but for the people who can come in and secure another pocket in a terrible area. That is also why, in the negotiations with the government, we are trying to get in a text that will ensure that the concrete approach comes from our government. But if Holger K. Nielsen thinks that it will automatically come, then that is very reassuring. I have not heard that either from the Minister or from the government parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145240	Automatically arrives what? Well, I didn't quite get that. If you're gonna get rid of them, you're gonna have to get them through. It is obvious, then, that we have to go through the Turkish Government and also put pressure on the Turkish Government. If you are to rebuild Kobani, you have to be able to get different materials through it is obvious. How this is actually going to happen, I am not going to stand by here, and frankly I do not think it is going to get very far by adopting anything in this Chamber. It is as if Enhedslisten has the idea that as long as their proposals for adoption are adopted, everything is resolved around Kobani, and that is not true. That's not true. After all, the Danish government is operating down there. We have people down there who, in practice, are operating on all these issues, and there is also a commitment to continue to do so on the basis of this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145335	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145345	It has been interesting to listen to the debate here today, and there are actually a lot of things that not only seven but eight parties in the Folketing agree on. We agree that the situation in Kobani is appalling and that we must do everything we can to support the Kobani people at all. We also agree that the main problem is ISIL and Assad. We agree to acknowledge the efforts of the Kurds in relation to what is going on. And I believe that we also agree to recognise that Turkey has made a great deal of effort in welcoming refugees and in building up some of the best refugee camps I have seen in neighbouring countries around there. I think it is really a pity that we cannot agree on a common proposal for adoption. And frankly, I find it strange that the Enhedslisten will swing up to, despite the fact that we know how complicated what is going on down there is, and despite the UN's recommendations, to impose on the government that small Denmark must demand that the borders be opened. After all, we agree that we would like to see further emergency aid coming in. We agree that it is fine that we now also contribute from Denmark to mine clearance in the area. But I think it is an expression of a certain amount of what to say, yes, I actually cannot find words for it, but I think it is too much that we should demand from the peaceful Nordic countries that now Turkey should open the borders. Let's find some other ways instead. The Liberal Alliance supports the joint proposal for the adoption of seven of the eight parties, and we regret that Enhedslisten apparently needs independent profiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145534	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145537	Thank you. The rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance believes that it is too much for the Enhedslist to waver to demand the return of refugees and to demand that Kobani be rebuilt. So, sorry, I remember when we were standing in here and Kobani was falling, that during the opening debate there was a proposal from the Liberal Alliance that the refugees should be exactly helped in this area instead of being helped in Denmark. It must be swinging up to something big at a time when the bombs fell on the city. In other words, if the Liberal Alliance is able to swing so high when a little political spin has been made before an opening debate, then I am very surprised that it is not possible for the Liberal Alliance to change to demand something as trivial as the Turkish Government is opening up to humanitarian aid and reconstruction material for the city that ISIL has destroyed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145635	I have not heard a single party that has been on the floor in this Parliament today say that we should not do what we can to get emergency aid into Kobani, not a single party. So that's what we're agreed on. But from there, and then to demand that Turkey open its borders, I think there is a very big leap, given how complicated the situation is down there and despite the fact that the UN makes a different recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145705	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145706	The UN does not make another recommendation. The UN says to the refugees: do not return until the mines are cleared and the bodies are removed. But the mines cannot be cleared, and the bodies cannot be removed until the equipment with which they are to be done is opened up. So the situation is that we must see whether the Liberal Alliance today has the courage to call a spade a spade and demand that the Turkish Government open the border. And there I find it quite unclear why the Liberal Alliance does not dare to demand it from the Turkish Government. Why do we not have the courage to demand this when, at the same time, we are constantly standing in the Chamber and saying that the refugees must be helped in the neighbourhood? In other words, the refugees cannot be helped in the neighbourhood if the Liberal Alliance does not have the courage to demand that the Turkish Government ensure that this can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145754	Nevertheless, I believe that the rapporteur overestimates the influence of the Liberal Alliance. I don't see that there's any contradiction in this. We wish all parties in the Danish Parliament today to express the need for emergency aid to be provided in Kobani and around Kobani and to enable the refugees to return. The Enhedslisten has just a need to have its own independent proposal for adoption, in which we require the Danish Government to demand that the borders be opened. It is simply not an option, as I see it, as the situation is in Kobani and around Kobani at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145834	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145836	I would like to know whether Mrs Mette Bock disagrees with the Red Cross in the assessment that there is a need to cross the border and that there is a need to bring in emergency aid. There is probably also a need to get minebreakers in, even in a fairly large number.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145853	I do not disagree with the Red Cross in this respect, and on the part of the Liberal Alliance we also support the Danish contribution that is now being made in relation to mine clearance in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145904	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145904-2	I also assume that Mrs Mette Bock thinks it would be a very good idea to resolve the problem, as the Red Cross also recommends, so that Turkey should be asked to help bring these things in, because they are the ones guarding the border; they are the ones who are the obstacles to moving forward with this problem. We are not talking about refugees; we are talking about emergency aid. We are talking about mine clearance and humanitarian aid so that it can work. I guess it's okay that it also comes in, whether you're writing a request or wish or what you're writing. That is just what was totally absent from the Minister's reply. He had many general wishes, but no concrete desire in relation to the specific problem. It is, after all, a specific problem that exists down there. It's not an abstract thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407145954	No, it is certainly not abstract, it is incredibly concrete. However, I also believe that this pressure, also in relation to Turkey, lies in the proposal for adoption which seven of the eight parties in the Danish Parliament are in favour of today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150006	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed from the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150029	The story of Kobani and Kobani's people is both tragic and deeply unhappy. At least we can all agree on this and the conquest of the city by ISIL, and the subsequent conquest has cost a great deal, very dearly, first and foremost in the form of human victims, and that is why it is now also the task of the international community to continue the work of making Kobani a safe and habitable city so that its inhabitants can return; that must be the mission. When Enhedslisten then tries to use the opportunities to raise cases in the Folketing to create the impression that, unlike everyone else, you have that mission, I do not really think Enhedslisten will succeed in convincing anyone about it. But one can get no other impression than that this debate has been raised to please some people whom Enhedslisten would like to please; at least it has not been raised to help people in Kobani, because Enhedslisten knows very well that they are not so naive that it is not achieved by the fact that we in the Danish Parliament are adopting resolutions of the kind that Enhedslisten is proposing here. So, it is a simplification of a very complicated situation to ask the question that Enhedslisten is doing here: what will the government do to ensure that the Turkish border with Kobani and Syria is opened? In any case, the answer to that question, if you have to give a proper answer, is much, much more complicated than the question is. There is a need for concerted action on security, military, humanitarian and political issues. Denmark is actively contributing to this, together with a large number of other countries, including Turkey, and we must continue to do so. I really think that the Foreign Minister has explained all this very well, and I should refer to what the Minister said about all the work that is being done and also the great challenges that are linked to this effort. The very specific issues which Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen quite rightly points out that there is a need to bring out emergency aid, to bring out mine clearance equipment and to ensure that the situation we agree on can be created operationally, that is to say that Kobani will again be habitable and safe for its original inhabitants, we must of course continue to work on this; we are in complete agreement on that. Finally, I would just like to continue to express my astonishment at the Enhedslisten's insistence on raising this agenda. In addition to the fact that we all agree that an effort must be made. No one can disagree on that; Enhedslisten does not have a monopoly on the idea that the only party in the Danish Parliament who has opposed an effort that really makes life safer for the Kurds and for the Syrian population and for the people of Northern Iraq is the Enhedslisten. It is Enhedslisten who has tried to oppose the Danish contribution to the international coalition against ISIL; they do not want such a military operation. The Enhedslisten wants us to support local democratic forces and thinks it should be able to solve things naively. I do not think there are many others other than Enhedslisten who have that analysis of the situation. I think the Enhedslisten should reconsider its position on this whole issue and in future support the fact that Denmark, as part of the international community, is helping to combat ISIL and to make the humanitarian and political efforts to be made, to hopefully achieve peace and stability, not only in Kobani and for its brave Kurdish inhabitants, but also throughout the region. There is a long way to go, but we do not solve the problems of weird isolated Danish interventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150526	A brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150530	Thank you. I would like to start by reminding you that the Enhedslisten actually tabled a motion for a resolution here in the Danish Parliament, which the Conservatives voted against. The idea was that Denmark should transport weapons to the Kurds in Kobani so that they could defend themselves against ISIL. I am quite sure they would have been very happy to have received that, but unfortunately the Conservatives and a majority in the Danish Parliament rejected it. Why raise the debate today? Well, it has to be said that something really positive has come out of it. It has come to the positive conclusion that we have now received a statement from the government that mine clearance equipment will be sent down there. I think that is extremely positive. To send mine clearance equipment to a city that is in ruins and is filled with mines and to which 200 000 refugees would like to return, I think, frankly, that is a positive thing, and I think that this debate is relevant. My concern, then, is that this equipment cannot be brought forward, because we in the Red Cross know that there are huge problems with that. So I would like to hear from the Conservative People's Party: why not ask the Turkish Government to open the border on the mine clearance equipment which all parties in the Folketing now believe should be sent off?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150648	Well, I don't know if sir. Nikolaj Villumsen can convince others, but I don't think so. It is not the case that the Enhedslisten is raising a debate in the Parliamentary Chamber today, which leads to the idea suddenly being given the idea that mine clearance equipment should be taken to Kobani in order to eradicate mines which are clearly a huge risk to the population when they start moving back. After all, it is not Enhedslisten who has provoked that effort and the idea of doing so. That's for sure. If we then cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal, it is because we think there is a much better proposal on which we and a number of other parties have agreed and which points to the overall effort to be made; and because it is also quite naive to believe that in the Danish Parliament we can demand that Turkey open the border and that we will then get a great deal of it. What we get a result from is that Denmark actively participates in the overall international work and in those contexts lets its voice hear. And so I am confident that the Danish Government is working actively to resolve these problems. They are not solved by unilateral Danish measures and resolutions. This is something that Enhedslisten can sit and adopt in some studentism groups around. If you have nothing else to do one evening and you have some working group or study group, you can adopt such a thing, but it does not lead to anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150818	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150820	I find that interesting. In other words, it does not help to adopt anything in the Folketing to be invoked against the Turkish Government. Is it such a general position of principle as the Conservative People's Party that the Folketing is completely powerless towards the Turkish Government? I think that is an interesting point of view. I think that a great many Danes will wonder about it. I think that many Danes will sit and ask: should we not help these refugees in the neighbourhood and should the Turkish Government not pull itself together and open that border so that reconstruction can get under way? But the Conservative People's Party believes this to be absolutely ridiculous. Does the Conservative rapporteur not think that there are many Danes who wonder about that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150900	I'm not gonna be able to say that. But I think that most people will realise that what makes a difference is that Denmark is participating with our allies in coalitions and in other contexts, in other words, participating in the efforts of the international community to create a solution. We achieve nothing by running around all the others with resolutions that we are waving in front of the Turkish Embassy, or by sending some down to the Turkish Government and waving a resolution adopted in the Folketing. That is not what makes a difference in international politics. It is that we are seriously participating in the fora that are now in place and where such things are being raised and are pushing in the right direction. That is what the resolution that we others are going to adopt calls for, which can make a difference. So yes, it may make a difference that we adopt resolutions in the Folketing, but it must be some resolutions that are wise and that lead to something.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150952	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407150958	Well, I'm gonna wave a little bit of a resolution here called V-40. It is among other things. signed by Mr. Lars Barfoed. Thinks sir. Lars Barfoed, that this resolution has any bearing on the situation now that he has pronounced strongly against another resolution that I can also wave, namely V-39?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151017	Now I do not have those resolutions in hand, so I do not know exactly what the content of the decisions that Mr. Christian Juhl is now waving. But the Folketing can of course adopt many things, and in many contexts it may be the expression of an opinion; at other times it may be something we require the government to do that can make a difference. So now we are talking about the resolution or proposal proposed by the Enhedslisten in the Parliamentary Chamber today, and that does not lead to anything compared to what we others are going to adopt, which is exactly what needs to be done, namely to continue our serious work in the international community by pushing things in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151058	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151101	But I can then inform the Conservative rapporteur that it is his own resolution, V 40, with which I stand. After all, we have all been distributed it, we have even been read out by the Socialist rapporteur. So he knows what's in it. That's what I'm talking about. Here are two resolutions which provide two ways of resolving this problem. One is even a little passive in it and says that when conditions allow it, we think we can start to return. The other one's a little more active. It says that we must do something to make the Turks understand that we need humanitarian aid and reconstruction materials into Kobani. Then you could say that there are probably none of those who move a stubborn Turkish president, but if it was not our role to influence the Kurds, influence the Turks, influence Assad, influence all sorts of others in a situation where war is raging and people are being killed in hundreds of thousands, what the hell would we do? We have to do something, and this is an attempt to formulate it. But there I can understand that resolutions are no good. But then I'm just gonna get rid of Mr. Kim. Barfoed's resolution, too, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151213	When I didn't know the contents of the paper that Mr. Christian Juhl was waving, it's because I haven't quite watched the numbering here. So I understand that we have now reached V 40, and that is what we are voting on here today, and thank you for that information. Then I can inform you that the resolution on which we agree with the other parties, with the exception of the Enhedslisten, contains exactly what needs to be done, namely that we are seriously involved in international work to promote the things we agree on, while the second resolution that Enhedslisten has does not lead to anything. It will just show us as an irresponsible country that thinks we can run around all the other countries and come up with our own resolutions and stand and wave them on some street corner, but that doesn't lead to anything. What leads to something is serious work within the international community and the international organisations of which we are members.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151302	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151307	Thank you very much, President. In conclusion, I should like to express my thanks both for what I think has been a good debate and, above all, for the very broad support which seven of the parties in the Danish Parliament have given to the line taken by the government in this matter and which has actually been expressed in the debate. As I hear, at least all the parties in the Danish Parliament agree, namely that it is now a matter of rebuilding Kobani. This requires: Paragraph 1, mine clearance; it actively supports Denmark, and we will continue to do so. Paragraph 2, humanitarian aid; that is being given, and there is an opportunity to do so, even today. Finally, paragraph 3, the actual reconstruction of the city, which could then lead to the return of refugees when it is safe to return. No one disagrees with what I have heard today's debate, nor does Turkey play an important role in this context. I think it means a lot that we can signal that, in the very complex situation we face, as many rapporteurs have mentioned, we are able to conduct a common foreign policy across the Things. But what brings me up here is also that I would like, what should I call it, to correct two things that have been raised in the debate and that I certainly cannot recognise the picture of. One is that there should be a completely hermetically sealed border on Turkey and that humanitarian aid cannot be reached. The Danish Red Cross has informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this morning that it is not intended to work across the border from Turkey, but is already working inside Syria in close cooperation with the Syrian Red Crescent Moon. Access to Kobani will thus have to be negotiated with the Syrian authorities. It is true that at present there is. is not access to Kobani from Syria. That is the ISIL-controlled area south of Kobani, and that is the problem in relation to the Red Cross. But other NGOs have been able to work and can work in there. So we cannot recognize the image of a completely closed border. Then it is true, as several people have also said, that a few weeks ago the United Nations announced that access to Kobani for humanitarian actors had crossed the border from Turkey, so, on the other hand, we do have a direct contribution from the United Nations, which shows that humanitarian actors have access. I think that the debate we have had today could well draw the opposite picture. I do not mention this because I do not think it is also important that we continue to contribute even more humanitarian aid and building material across the border. However, the picture that it was supposed to be a hermetically closed limit is simply not correct, and I thought there was a good reason for pointing that out. The second brief comment I would like to make is that Mr. Søren Pind mentioned that I should have gone to become a fan of President Assad. Holger K. Nielsen also mentioned Assad's war crimes. What I have said, and what I mean, has not changed since I said it, and that is that if you want to have some kind of ceasefire that can bring peace to a genuine peace process, then you have to back the UN negotiations with the regime. That is what the United States is doing; that is what Denmark is doing; that is what the whole international community is doing. Because if the UN cannot negotiate such a ceasefire, it will be impossible to carry out a peace process. But every time I have said what, in my view, is a matter of course: if you do not give the UN that mandate, it will be impossible to carry out a peace process. At the same time, I have said that I do not see Assad as part of the solution, and that I do not believe that the man, with the monstrous war crimes he has on his conscience, has any place whatsoever in a Syrian transitional government or whatever it may come after the negotiations have been there. However, if we are to stop the bloodshed on earth, we must ensure that those parts of the regime which currently regard Assad as their only guarantee of protection are protected, that the transitional government that is coming can provide protection to those who make them willing, if I may say so, to walk around the back of Assad and make an actual agreement. I just thought there was reason to make that clear, because I would not want to be sitting on me, that what I should have said was that we are now negotiating a solution on Syria, which includes Assad as an active part. It's not my position, it's never been.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151741	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151744	Thank you. There has, of course, been a positive statement in broad terms in the Danish Parliament today that there can be support for if the government wishes to announce that Turkey should open up the border with Kobani for reconstruction equipment, and it is precisely reconstruction equipment which is the central and starting point of this debate. The Left has said that it would be welcomed. The SF believes that this lies in the proposal for adoption that has already been made by seven parties of the Folketing. So I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister: will the Foreign Minister today demand from the Parliamentary Chair that Turkey open the border for reconstruction equipment into Kobani?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407151834	As I also mentioned in my opening speech is number one and I actually think, too, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen himself mentioned having the mines cleared, also so that you can start rebuilding with building materials. It's number one to get that part of the bet going. And then it is quite clear to me that, as the second, we must of course also have the opportunity to get building materials in, so that we can start a real reconstruction where mines might have been removed. A total opening-up of the border is understood as removing all border controls, and then there should be absolutely no control over what is flowing across the border, both in one direction and in the other, of course I do not support it. I guess that's not what Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen thinks. But the reality is quite so complicated that it will require some kind of control, both one way and the other way. Because there are many things that flow across that border, including things that we do not like at all. That is why there is no need for some kind of control to ensure that what comes over is, if I may say so, real building materials for humanitarian purposes. With one reservation, however, it is clear to me that, of course, building materials must be available in order to rebuild Kobani. Nor do I have any evidence to believe that this is not the view of the Turkish Government. They are the ones who currently have 150,000 refugees from Kobani, and I do not see that they should have any other desire or motivation whatsoever, except that the refugees can return home as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152001	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152002	Yes, but the reality is that two and a half months have passed and minebreakers have not been able to get in. Reconstruction materials have not been able to get in. The equipment designed to remove the rubble under which there are bodies which create the danger of epidemics has not been able to get in. And now we have a situation in which it has been widely stated in the Folketing that it will support a clear statement by the Foreign Minister that, of course, it should be opened. What I know the Kurds in Kobani have called for was that it was the UN that ran that border crossing, so that it was the reconstruction material that came over. Turkey just hasn't wanted it yet. So the situation is that there will be broad support if the Minister for Foreign Affairs chooses to send that signal from Parliament's platform today, and I would just like to urge the Foreign Minister to do so clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152056	Well I am happy to send the clear signal again that I want Kobani to be rebuilt as soon as possible, as well as a very broad majority in the Parliamentary Assembly, so that the building materials that are needed to rebuild Kobani can cross the border. I'd be happy to send that signal. But where I think the waters divide a little between the Enhedslisten and the rest of the Danish Parliament, there is where it is as if the Enhedslisten wants to make it the sole responsibility and the fault of the Turkish Government that Kobani has not been rebuilt long ago. So reality is not as simple as I was just trying to explain. It is not the case that the Turkish Government has refused, for example. Red Cross to come in. In fact, the Red Cross does not operate from Turkey into Syria, according to the information we have received from the Red Cross. We have even assumed that the People's Church's emergency aid, which we are only now getting started on mine clearance, will also get under way. That is why I do not fully recognize the image of a Turkish government standing actively in the way of reconstruction efforts. However, to send the signal that we want it and, of course, to expect Turkey to cooperate, I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152204	Then it's mr. Søren Pind for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152214	I would just like to hear from the Foreign Minister: does the Foreign Minister consider Assad to be the main person responsible for the refugee disaster in Syria, or does the Foreign Minister consider ISIL to be the main party responsible for the refugee disaster in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152231	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152235	President Assad is clearly the main responsible for the humanitarian tragedy in Syria and the very large number of refugees currently present. ISIL is, of course, a relatively new phenomenon, one might say, in the Syrian civil war, which only became seriously active 1 to 11⁄2 years ago and therefore so far has fewer victims and murders of conscience, even though they now absolutely also have their share of the terrible terror and horror that is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152302	Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152304	Does the Foreign Minister agree that Assad bears the main responsibility for the emergence of ISIL on account of, inter alia: in writing. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152323	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152325	It's a big discussion, sir. Søren Pind is setting up. It is true that there are strong reports that, in the very early stages, President Assad, but not only Assad, contributed to the formation of extremist groups in the opposition. There are many intel and many different analyses of this, but we must take the view that some role played by the regime in Damascus. What is, after all, the paradox and tragedy in Syria, and the reason why no military intervention has been taken against Assad, is that, unfortunately, Assad is actively supported by both Iran and Russia, and that is why the assessment by the ally, including by the United States, has been that imagining a rapid military solution to Assad was hardly possible, because he would be actively supported by both Iran and Russia, so that the situation could escalate. This does not make the situation any better or less tragic, but it explains why military solutions have not been put in place; it has not been thought that they could solve the problem in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152433	That triggered a brief remark from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152438	Thank you. If I understand it correctly, the Minister will now demand from Turkey that the border be opened up to emergency aiders, minebreakers and such things, and that is fine, if that is understood correctly, but the last answer I was somewhat alarmed about here. First of all, we need to fight and fight, and so on.? Is it entirely outside the government's horizon or vision to find a peaceful solution, in other words to find a negotiated solution to the war in Syria, and to ensure that there is a political solution in which all parties, including Kurds, are involved in those negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152519	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152521	The reason I think I got the questions I did from Mr. Søren Pind, in a way, was that I have been out pleading for a political solution and for the need to negotiate with the regime in Damascus as well. It is, of course, paradoxical to negotiate with a regime and a dictator who has so many hundreds of thousands of lives on his conscience as barrel bombs his people and who, in every sense, carry out real terror against his civilian population. That is why, of course, I also had to make it clear that such negotiations cannot lead to him being, if I may say so, a permanent force in Syria. However, that we should not try to pursue the political solutions, I will under no circumstances be able to recognise at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152611	Christian Juhl? No. Thank you to the Secretary of State. And then I understand that the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407152631	A debate on the resolution of the civil war in Syria is an important debate and I warmly support the fact that we are discussing it and that we often discuss it here in the Folketing. There must be a peaceful transition to a democratic and diverse Syria, and of course Denmark should work actively for that. What we are discussing today in this debate is the closed Turkish border with Kobani. I think it is important, after today's debate, to say that there must therefore be a limit to naivety. There must be a limit to naivety when you look at what reality really is. For what is the situation on the border with Kobani? Refugees can return. Yeah, actually, they can. There are thousands of those who have already done so. But if they return, they risk being blown up by mines placed by IS or being affected by disease due to rotten bodies under the rubble. Should they be ill or hit by mines, they cannot get back across the Turkish border, because it is closed to them. There will be sparing humanitarian aid, yes, but there will not be enough, and there will be no reconstruction equipment. Then we are asked whether it is too much to demand that Turkey open the border for reconstruction equipment. During the debate, it is asked whether it is too much to claim that Turkey is responsible for Turkish border controls at the border with Kobani. I just have to say that, of course, it is not too much to demand. It is not too much to demand of an ally that Denmark contributes to supporting the forces, the Kurds, the civilian population who in Kobani opposed and fought ISIL. What is too much is that Turkey has not yet done so. I could hear from the Left that nothing will be done until the government takes the initiative. At least nothing will be done about whether pressure should be put on the Turkish Government. I think that is an exciting point of view which the Left should think about the next time it is asked to help refugees in the neighbourhood. The reality is that Turkey has opposed the defence of Kobani, and I think it is important that in this debate we have to call a spade a spade and realise that once the border has been closed for two and a half months after Kobani was freed, there is probably a reason for that. As long as the city flows with mines, it is clear that the UN will of course continue to advise the refugees not to return, just as the local Kurdish authorities will continue to advise the refugees not to return. But if the bodies are to be removed, then the mines need to be opened up to the equipment to do so. This requires a political pressure, a pressure which Denmark, of course, also has a responsibility to put in place. I must say that the position of the Danish People's Party today surprises me. The Danish People's Party's talk of helping the refugees from Syria in the neighbourhood sounds a little hollow when you hear that they will not put pressure on the Islamist Turkish Government, but instead choose to say that the Kurds who have fought against the extremists cannot get a helping hand from Denmark in this process; they cannot get political pressure from the Danish People's Party to open the border. I have to say, I'm surprised. I have to say, I am surprised that the Liberal Alliance, as we have seen in the debates in this Parliament that refugees should be helped in the neighbourhood, thinks it is too much to demand that Turkey open the border that allows refugees to be helped in the city that they want to rebuild so badly. I find it sad that we are in a situation where it has been really difficult to get a clear response from the government in relation to a demand for pressure to be put on the Turkish Government to demand that the Turkish Government open the border with Kobani. This, of course, is not a demand that should be made in Denmark. It is clear that we must start in our own home, we must start in our own Parliament by demanding what we must follow up on the announcement of a similar nature that has come from the Council of Europe, but we must, of course, also work to ensure that this pressure is applied internationally. It is in the adoption proposed by the Enhedslisten. There must be a reason why Turkey has not opened the border, there must be a reason why it has not yet done so. If you think that the Turkish border will be opened up to Kobani, if you do not tell the Turkish Government, then frankly I think you are naive, and then you owe an explanation of why it has not happened in the last two and a half months. I would urge the Foreign Minister to take note of today's debate in the Folketing. In conclusion, I would like to commend the fact that mining equipment will now be sent, but I would like to encourage the Foreign Minister to note that there was a broad desire in the Folketing that pressure should be put on Turkey to open the border so that the mine clearance equipment and other reconstruction material can get over it, because it would be a really, very positive signal to send out from Denmark, it would be a crucial signal to send out if we were to ensure that Kobani can be rebuilt and that the refugees can return. Thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153223	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 9 April 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153243	The debate is open, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Søren Pind, speaking for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153319	The proposed bill intends to update the External Action Service Act to reflect the practice and conditions of today. A few provisions are removed, there is a linguistic update of wording, and in some places legislation is amended to reflect practice, either in other ministries or the practice in force in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is all efforts that the Left can support. However, I would warn against confusing the draft law with modernisation, let alone making the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more effective. Modernising the Ministry of Foreign Affairs requires more political focus and strategic thinking. These are the conditions we have been calling for in the current government. We still want a service check to be carried out by the External Action Service, but in this regard we will not stand in the way of the proposed revision of the External Action Service Act. The Left can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153429	Thank you. Then I go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Morten Bødskov, who also speaks on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153440	That is right, President, and thank you for the floor. As has already been said, the purpose of the draft law here is, of course, to make the law on the External Action Service more up-to-date, and it mainly concerns some staff technical and administrative issues, so I shall be very brief: the Socialists can endorse the proposal and, as the President also said, I am speaking on behalf of the Radical Left, which could not be present, and the Radical Left can also endorse the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153510	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153516	Thank you very much. I agree with what has been said by both the Left and the Socialist Group. I have just one small thing, however, I would ask the Foreign Minister to explain a little more, if possible, and otherwise we can do it at a later stage. It is mentioned at the end of the written submission:... a proposal for a new EU directive on the consular protection of citizens of the Union abroad is currently being examined by the Council. It is difficult at this stage in the negotiation process to assess when the directive can be adopted. The same applies to the scope of the legislative measures which transposition into Danish law may involve, including whether it will require amendment of the External Action Service Act within a short period of time. It is not certain that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will reply to it today or may • but I would like to ask if some note could be made about what is going on and what we might expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153612	Thank you. And then it's sir. Holger K. Nielsen, speaking for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153620	All I have to say is that the SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153626	Thank you. And then it's sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153634	Thank you. Yearly recruitment of civil servants and women on the basis of an overall assessment of flexibility and economy is surely not something that can upset very many people. But if you want to modernise, I agree with Mr. Søren Pind said you could have gone a little more to the bite with things. And I would like to encourage the government to look alone at the very, very old title. It says: "Officials. " In other words, we probably have as many women in certain sectors of our activities, so I would like to call for a concept to be found appropriate to the present and not to 1930. But otherwise we can agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153721	However, I would warn against the term maids. Then I give the floor to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153731	Thank you. I am also speaking on behalf of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Mette Bock, who could not be here now. I should just like to say, in line with what I think everyone else said, that we are in agreement with the proposal. After all, these are purely administrative, recruitment improvements and updating existing practices, so we fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153801	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. If the Secretary of State wants to finish, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153811	Thank you very much. It is just before, I think, that we are setting a record here in speed in dealing with legislative proposals, but that is because there is a broad consensus, and I would like to thank you for that too for the debate that has taken place. We'll take the comments with us. After all, the aim of this draft law is to bring the law on the External Action Service, which dates back to 1983, fully into line with current conditions and practices, what is needed. I look forward to the discussion of the matter in the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Danish Parliament. Sir. Søren Espersen then asks about the new EU directive. In fact, this is a matter which we have had the opportunity to discuss in the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs. Søren Espersen could not be present that day but we did. And there was a broad majority to support that directive, but not the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten. But it is just now that I would like to refer to the basic note describing the proposal and, if there are any questions, we will of course be happy to answer them in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153911	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153926	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beazley. Michael Aastrup Jensen. If he has time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407153951	Thank you, President. I just had to find my papers. First of all, I would like to say that there is no doubt that it is against a negative background that we have the debate on the Council of Europe, because we have two Member States: Russia and Ukraine, which are in a de facto war with each other, a war which is in danger of ending in the near future, a war which is currently costing many civilian lives, and a war which is helping to destabilise the whole of Eastern Europe. In the Parliamentary Assembly a large number of groups, including the Liberal Group, have tried to take it very seriously and also to blame Russia for the blame, namely Russia, and to say that if Russia does not stop with their big brotherhood, where they push, send soldiers, send weapons, etc. to the separatists in Ukraine, it will end badly, and therefore it is also important to support what has happened in the Parliamentary Assembly with sanctions against Russia. We have, of course, suspended the right to vote so that the Russian delegation cannot vote, we have also imposed other sanctions which mean that they cannot appoint so-called reporters, they cannot attend various committee meetings, etc. So all in all, we are actually trying, on the part of the Parliamentary Assembly, to fight hard, not least against a country such as Russia, which seems to have no respect for soft diplomacy. But what happens in the Committee of Ministers? Well, there are no sanctions. There is still the soft diplomatic policy which has not produced any results at all, and I must therefore admit that I am very disappointed that the Danish Government has not sent instructions to the ambassador to the Committee of Ministers and said clearly that here we have to take off the gloves and back up the action that has been taken in the Parliamentary Assembly, because inside the Committee of Ministers we have the absurdity that the Russian ambassador is still sitting there, sitting away the Russian ambassador still holding the rest of Europe talking. And what happens then? Well, the only thing that happens and comes out of it is no action, no results, and we just get into a worse and worse situation. After all, we have seen what has come out of Russia's behaviour against other countries of the Council of Europe. You can just go to Georgia, you can just go to Moldova, etc. etc. In other words, we have a large number of other European countries and members of the Council of Europe who have been through some of the same things that Ukraine is going through at the moment, but it is as if they are just saying this: Ah, but this time diplomacy is succeeding with Russia, this time we can talk our way out of it. How long will one think one can reach something with talk when one has seen so many examples throughout history that it is of no use? It is clear that Putin's regime has no respect for such a sweet attitude. It is also the case that we have the three Baltic countries, to which I think we have a special obligation on the Danish side, and which are clearly travelling too, we must call it the yellow flag by saying that they are nervous that if that behaviour continues on the part of Russia, it can also be directed towards the three Baltic countries. We even see it internally in Russia. I had the opportunity to attend Boris Nemtsov's funeral, where I also had the opportunity to talk to people. After all, Boris Nemtsov was chairman of one of our liberal sister parties in Russia, and when you talk to the ordinary Russian, it is also clear that even they also say that if you do not take off your velvet gloves against the Putin regime, you are in fact also damaging the opposition in Russia. When you ask Boris Nemtsov's fellow party members, they beg and ask that we from Europe be much more firm in our approach to Russia and not least in our approach to Putin. So I must admit that I am very disappointed that the Danish Government has not been more active and has not been more robust, because I fear that when we come and have to have exactly the same debate in a year's time, we can stand and tell you how it has got even worse for all the many people who are currently threatened by the great-power rhetoric and not least - politics that Russia is currently doing at the moment. Well, it was about Russia and Ukraine. I would also like to say a few words about what else is in the Council of Europe. If we go back to talking about Georgia, where I also have the great honour of being rapporteur for the Council of Europe, I have to admit that unfortunately we see a negative trend with the current government in Georgia. We see a tendency for minorities as well as democratic rights to be denied. We are also seeing a development that I do not think any of us would like to see, at least in the western part of Europe. That is why I have the clear view that we must therefore go in and focus more on a country such as the United Kingdom. Georgia. Because if we do not do that, I am nervous that Georgia will become a country a la Armenia and Azerbaijan, not a country where there is great growth, not a country where there is a process of democratisation, but a country where you go down a kind of black hole and have such a kind of semi-democracy process going on and none of us is getting anything out of it. If we also focus on the organisation of the Council of Europe itself, then we must say with shame that the Council of Europe is one of the organisations that lives very much in secret. After all, we are an organization that does not receive much attention. We are an organisation that many people believe is about the Union of Europe, in other words the European Union. Even the Strasbourg Court, many believe that it is the European Court of Justice. I think it is a pity for the Council of Europe. In fact, I think that the Council of Europe has its justification as a place where 47 democratic Member States have more or less an opportunity to sit and negotiate and be able to debate things. Therefore, if it is to have any sense and not just be a fine coffee club in lovely dresses, it is also necessary that we handle it as something other than a talking club in lovely Alsace. That is why we are returning to the starting point. Come on, let's get those velvet gloves off. Let us now get some concrete action going. And let us put the Russian Government at the door and say that if they do not soon behave democratically and, above all, live by the European values that they themselves have signed up to when they joined the Council of Europe, then it must have consequences and many different consequences than the current ones for the Committee of Ministers, where they simply say that we have to talk ourselves out of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407154800	A brief remark from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407154805	Thank you. It was a bit of an ointment that came to the Council of Europe's sweet soup attitude. I do not share the rapporteur's view on the Council of Europe. On the other hand, I think it is a quality to seek consensus and to seek dialogue rather than the war tones that the Left calls for. I would like to know whether the rapporteur also thinks that, for example, we should have the right to vote in local elections. The United Nations must begin to deprive individual countries of their right to vote, their right to speak and their right to be reporters and all sorts of other things, as we in the Council of Europe have begun this strange tradition. I would also like to hear what other countries are in the risk zone, and what other countries do the rapporteur think should have been in the risk zone for such a strange activity, that is, for them to be deprived of the right to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407154859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407154901	Well, it's not so surprising that Enhedslisten thinks what I'm saying is wrong. After all, my proposal, which fortunately was adopted by a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly, was also voted against on the sanctioning of Russia. Unlike the Enhedslisten, I do not think that we can turn the other cheek just when Russia is indifferent over and over again to all the resolutions, all the demands made by the Council of Europe. Because that's what Russia is. That is why, in order to answer the question, only Russia is at risk at the moment, because it is only Russia that is so indifferent to everything that the Council of Europe adopts and demands of Russia that it should simply, I think, have a consequence and one has to say: okay, so it is not just a free ticket to be a member of the Council of Europe, because then there was no reason to have the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407154950	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407154951	Thank you. I would just like to ask in all silence: if you are going to have a dialogue with each other and one side, then the other side will be deprived of the opportunity to engage in that dialogue, how the hell is that going to be possible? Then it's like we're on our way back to the old Cold War, and there was definitely nothing fun about it. I have an age, so I can remember it, and I would ask the rapporteur to consider whether it can now be a right way to drive forward so hard with cold warstones when it comes to resolving such serious conflicts as the Ukraine conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155028	Well, unfortunately, I think the rapporteur has misunderstood the proposal that I put forward and which was adopted. Because we are not withdrawing the dialogue with Russia; on the contrary, we are taking the right to vote from Russia. That was the compromise proposal that I tabled, which allowed us still to have a dialogue away, still to have a debate with Russia. But what did Russia do? They played insulted and said: okay, so we don't participate in any dialogue with you when it's supposed to be that way. We have not deprived them of the opportunity for dialogue; it is Russia itself that has done so by insulting that we obviously want them to respect what we are adopting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155104	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Jacob Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155118	On behalf of the Socialists, I should like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good statement and for the work of the Council of Europe. After all, the year has been marked by the conflict over Ukraine, and the year has been marked by relations between Russia and the other European countries. It has become more tense and the work has definitely become more topical in relation to what the Council of Europe is doing. In this situation, it can be said that there is no simple solution for the Council of Europe, but the Council of Europe is certainly a relevant meeting place in order to have the opportunity to have a dialogue and a debate in order to resolve some of these issues. Because if we are to have any hope of resolving the conflict around Ukraine in particular, it must be a free and informed debate that must take place. Dialogue is important, including between the members of the Council of Europe, for those members who do not necessarily always meet the obligations of the work. It can be said that the Council of Europe has provided a platform for regimes such as: Azerbaijan, which does not always respect freedom of expression or has great difficulty in respecting freedom of expression, human rights, freedom of expression and other human rights, which are important. This has given the whole of the Council of Europe a perspective, precisely the forum where the critics of the system in Azerbaijan have the opportunity to express themselves in a way. In view of the criticisms that have been made, we have also expressed strong criticism of Azerbaijan during the Presidency that they had here in the Council of Europe during the period that has passed when, while holding the Presidency, they committed a number of breaches of human rights. After all, there has been an excellent criticism from Commissioner for Human Rights Nils Muižnieks, where he goes out and criticises in absolutely sharp terms what is happening. It is essential that there remain clear signals that you are part of the Council of Europe and that you have to comply with the Council's conventions. The Council of Europe must provide protection against the many breaches of the Convention on Human Rights, which we are unfortunately still looking at in Europe, and we must continue to support here in Denmark the human rights court and the work that is going on there. We must continue to focus on the countries that violate the Convention on Human Rights, and we must continue to work to improve the conditions of the people who suffer from the oppression and limitation of the rights that exist in it. It is also important to remember the Council of Europe's primary task of asserting respect for human rights, defending democracy and ensuring the rule of law. After all, a clear signal must be sent, and so has Russia, that their actions in relation to what is going on around Ukraine are totally unacceptable. As the previous rapporteur said, we have also included their right to vote in the House. In my view, this is a very great strength, and it must show that the actions we are doing are consistent. But we must never abandon the dialogue that is taking place in the Council of Europe, and it is important that it can continue to develop. That is why we must also go a very long way to avoid resorting to further action under this heading. But if the conflict continues, we must, of course, look at what the Russians are doing in the Council of Europe and our role in the Council of Europe. Other issues that have been raised in relation to this have been clear since the attack in Paris and, most recently here in Copenhagen, terrorism and radicalisation and extremism. It is of course important that the Council of Europe should take a position on how the Council can play a role and fight against this radicalisation. Because even if individual countries do a great deal and get very far in targeted national action, it still requires that there is cooperation across European countries in order to make it work. After all, it is gratifying that the Council of Europe has worked on an action plan for this and it will probably be ready to be adopted at the next session. This is where the strength of the Council of Europe lies: we can stand shoulder to shoulder on key values that bind us together as Europeans and that together we can stand firm on our freedom and express ourselves about our democracy and our human rights and ensure that fear and terror do not dictate how we organise our societies, both in Denmark and in Europe. Finally, I should also like to thank the other parties for the cooperation we have had in the delegation and the ambassador and his staff for the work they are doing down there. It's indispensable. Denmark is very much involved in the work of the Council of Europe, and this is due not least to the skills that are in the cooperation and work for common Danish objectives, and I certainly hope that we can continue with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155718	A brief remark from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155720	Thank you. I would also like to thank you from this point of view for your cooperation. I think we have constructive and sensible cooperation, although we may not always agree on everything. And that is what I want to ask about Ukraine and Russia. Because I have the clear view that nothing has happened with the dialogue. No results have come out of the one that has not been achieved, other than, it can be said that it has got worse. We have more people who have been killed; we have separatists who are now quite openly receiving military help from Russia, both arms and personnel aid, and all in all, the Council of Europe is running around adopting resolution after resolution, which Russia does not care about. That is why I just want to ask a question, and that is how far should we go? How far should we go if it were up to the Socialists before we have to draw a line not in the sand but then in the ground, and simply say: to this, and now our patience can no longer be extended?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155824	I know that we absolutely do not agree on how the line in the sand should be drawn in relation to how far we should go in the dialogue. And I do not think I can see where the line should be drawn so far at least. I clearly believe that in the work of the Council of Europe, the means is for us to talk. It is the dialogue that is the means. There are others who have some other means of action in relation to this, but the Council of Europe is the only place where you have the opportunity to have a parliamentary discussion on how to solve some of the tasks. So in no way do I think I can see for the time being that a line should be drawn in the sand and one should say that it is over, because what is the alternative? The alternative is that there is no dialogue, and then it is over. We don't have any other options. We can't go in with any means of power in relation to this. So I have no deadline for when to draw a line, or any checkpoints for when to stop the dialog.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155931	Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407155933	The alternative is, of course, that you take a hard fight because that's all Putin can understand. And if you ask the Russian opposition, at least the Liberal opposition, they say clearly: now make demands on Putin, because Putin wants to be part of Europe, Putin wants to be part of the good company. So you're gonna start saying, if you don't adopt these different things, then these different things that we're proposing are going to have a negative effect, you're not part of Europe. That is what the Liberal opposition in Russia recommends us to do, and I therefore believe that they also know a little about what Putin respects. 'Cause you could say that right now Putin's just laughing at us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407160014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407160016	Well, it's a point of view that we have to fight hard, but what's hard against hard in this? I still believe that dialogue is the only right way to do this. And in the cooperation we have in the Council of Europe and with the means available to the Council of Europe, there is no alternative but to dialogue. The second thing is that those who then get caught up in the system do not have a body to talk about what the Council of Europe is after all in relation to the Court of Human Rights and the conventions that we can actually support, even though there are challenges in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407160057	Thank you, sir. Jacob Lund. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407160112	Thank you for that, and thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement, which provides a good overview of the Council of Europe's activities and areas of action in the last year. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we think it is a good thing that the Council of Europe offers the Member States advice and help to respect fundamental legal principles and fulfil their democratic obligations to their own citizens. This is basically positive. I think it makes sense for the Council of Europe, unlike the European Union, to make more use of advice and dialogue instead of getting orders from above. After all, it is a healthy principle to build on when states need to cooperate. It may be that things take a little longer when it is based on advice and dialogue, and not every time we reach the goal, but it is preferable to overpowering supranational bodies that come and point their finger at time and in advance. On the other hand, it is a problem that certain parts of European Council cooperation and, of course, the European Court of Human Rights are so much involved in dictating policies in individual Member States. This is always a difficult balancing exercise, given the extent to which international bodies and conventions are to decide on sovereign nations, because if they decide too much and the parliaments and governments of each country are to be governed by old conventions and the political and professional judgement of lawyers, it may, contrary to the intention, restrict national democracy, and in this case the Council of Europe, the Convention on Human Rights and the Court of Justice may eventually develop into part of the problem rather than part of the solution. Unfortunately, this has already been the case today, at least far along the way. We must not stop doing what is right for our country because we fear, often unfoundedly, that it is contrary to our obligations to, for example, our own country. Council of Europe. We are first and foremost committed to our country and to our people. It is the balancing process which must be there, but which can sometimes be difficult to see. We must also be careful that we do not use and abuse the Council of Europe in the domestic debate to promote certain political views. That wasn't supposed to be the point of cooperation. We certainly do not think so in the Danish People's Party. As an example, a broad majority in the Folketing has previously refused to introduce a ban on full-scale suits in public spaces, the so-called burka ban, on the grounds that it was contrary to human rights. It wasn't. This is what the European Court of Human Rights has decided, and this is a very good example of how socialist and also liberal politicians hide behind the conventions instead of taking the political debate, because if you are politically against Burka and the view of people behind it, and at the same time are in favour of Denmark's commitment to the Council of Europe, the two views can actually be reconciled. In addition to the fact that we have the Court of Justice's word for it, we have just received the Minister of Justice's word for it. So here, in our view, there has been a positive development in the area of human rights, and I would, of course, like to sign for that. In this context, I would like to reiterate my party's call for such a ban, so that we say away from the forces in opposition to our view of women and democracy, in order to stress that in our society it is part of the way in which we see each other, that we do not cultivate the things that divide us. I mention the approval by the European Court of Human Rights of such a ban, because it stresses that, within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights, we can actually do some things, such as tightening up the law and immigration policy, and we should do that. Those parties who say they want to tighten, but not because of Denmark's international obligations, should of course use the verdict to reconsider their position and to show a greater willingness to challenge the system, because you can actually win if the arguments are in order. If the Council of Europe is to maintain its position and perhaps even gain some ground at the expense of the European Union, then the Council of Europe and its bodies must ensure the balance between, on the one hand, its task of monitoring the situation in the individual Member States and, on the other hand, its greater respect for the development of the individual Member States, because development is often also the expression of a certain popular will. There are historical, religious and cultural differences in the countries, and therefore there is not one recipe for the right rule of law and democracy. There is no such recipe, and we should not deceive ourselves or anyone else. The Council of Europe should operate on the basis that the European countries are different, the Member States are different and on the basis that the Council must first and foremost safeguard the rights of Europeans and must not contribute to a legal situation in which non-European citizens become equal to citizens of the Member States. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we call on the government to work to ensure that the Council of Europe, and it will then be in the Committee of Ministers, concentrates more on a few core values, respect for basic principles of law, freedoms, the proper functioning of state bodies, the fight against corruption and the holding of democratic elections, in which the elected government will then have room to work on the basis of the mandate given by the electorate. We call on the government to continue its efforts to streamline the Court of Justice and to work towards changes in the European Commission on Human Rights, so that the right of States to formulate their own judicial and alien policies is more emphasised. We would like the government to set up a commission to work on a review of Denmark's international obligations, including in relation to the Council of Europe. The crisis in Ukraine, as others have also mentioned, has also filled a great deal in the work of the Council of Europe in the last year. The Council has assisted Ukraine in various ways. On a practical level, the Council is helping Ukraine to ensure a well-functioning state, including Ukraine. We are talking about the development of an anti-corruption policy, the reform of the legal system and the electoral system. On the recommendation of the Council, a panel has also been set up to monitor the investigation of acts of violence committed in connection with the uprising against the former President and his regime. However, it is also important to emphasise that the good measures can only work in the long term if a solution is found to the Russia-Ukraine conflict. That's the key to it. It will require Russia to give itself up in a number of areas, Ukraine to do the same, NATO, Europe and the United States to be willing to compromise, and if we talk about Russia in general and also the consequences that it has for Denmark, then I think it is also important that we show that we are also willing to say that we are prepared to say that, for example, we are prepared to do so. is also willing to arm up in relation to our own military. We should certainly not go out and save more money on the military. We must show that we are also willing to defend our country and our allies, because I believe that is also something that President Putin can understand. However, let us hope, in relation to Ukraine, that the current fragile ceasefire agreement will last, as this must be assumed to be the prerequisite for a long-term solution. Many other points could be highlighted, but I think that this should be the point. In conclusion, however, I would like to mention that the Danish Government should of course see if there is no possibility of doing more in the so-called Lars Hedegaard case. I know that this is also part of the statement. The nature of this case fits well with the Council of Europe. I do not think that the Turkish Government has shown much respect for Denmark in this matter, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party, through the Parliamentary Assembly, have also put questions to the Committee of Ministers on this particular matter. We would like to see the government explain what it has done under the auspices of the Council of Europe and, above all, what has come out of it. We can then read it; not so much has come out of it, but we would also like to know what the government is going to do in the future with Turkey, whether it is a matter which the government will also pursue under the auspices of the Council of Europe. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407160826	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407160837	Thank you. Like other rapporteurs, I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement here on the work of the Council of Europe, an organisation that remains of great value and in which we in the Radical Left are also pleased that Denmark is contributing a great deal of effort. The Council of Europe, as the report also emphasizes, plays a role not only in relation to the crisis that has been taking place in Ukraine in recent years, but also in relation to continuing and relentlessly focusing on the values that the Council of Europe has just set in the world to promote: democracy, openness and freedom, and more tangible efforts to monitor the progress of these values. And this work is necessary because these values are still under pressure and constantly being challenged. The attacks here in Denmark and in France are obvious examples of this. But even more relevant, at least in relation to the work of the Council of Europe, are, for example, the trends that are being shown in the Azerbaijani movement. Here journalists are arrested, the government controls the country's media strictly, and recently Radio Free Europe was also shut down in the country. As several of my fellow rapporteurs have mentioned here from the platform, it may seem paradoxical to debate precisely freedom, openness and democracy with such countries, and it may seem obvious to exclude these countries from the good company. In fact, however, dialogue, including with regimes such as Azerbaijani, offers some important opportunities. The debates create the opportunity for confrontation, the opportunity to include entirely current perspectives from the oppositions of these regimes, which will somehow have a voice in an international context, where otherwise they would not have had a voice if we cut off these regimes from being held to account. This is precisely the principle that applies when, in the Council of Europe and in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we are allowed, as a forum, to enter into dialogue with and criticise, for example, the Turkish Government for the recent attacks on journalists in Turkey. It will then also give protection and support to those on the political stage and among NGOs and activists who believe that Turkey must change course on that front. In addition to the possibility of critical dialogue and of accountability, the Council of Europe, as several have also mentioned, is doing this, if you like, more low-practical monitoring in countries that actually want to move forward in relation to freedoms, but where there is work to be done. Montenegro is an example of a country that has worked hard on the tasks ahead of Montenegro in relation to becoming a full member of the Council of Europe, and here the Council of Europe's objectives on freedoms have inspired and the monitoring that has taken place has helped. And recently, the Council of Europe actually suspended its monitoring in Montenegro because it now complies with so many of the principles of the Council of Europe. So the work on democracy and freedoms is certainly not easy in all the Member States, and sometimes, as my fellow Members have already mentioned in the debate here today, a line must also be drawn in the sand. Thus I was also one of the members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe who, together with the rest of the Liberal Group, voted in favour of depriving the Russian delegation of the right to vote because of Russia's failure to meet the demands made in relation to Russia's behaviour in Ukraine. It is, of course, important to stress that this is not something that should be done in time and prematurely, but it is equally important to emphasise that membership of the Council of Europe and of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe should of course not be something that gives legitimacy to regimes without them having earned it. On the other hand, I believe that if we other countries, such as Denmark and like-minded people, take responsibility for us, it can also be used to bring regimes to account when that is exactly what they deserve. So, as far as I am concerned, this is a two-sided debate in which dialogue must be extended as far as possible, but there must also be something following the dialogue. I therefore believe that all in all there is good reason to contribute to the diversity of the work outlined in the report, which Denmark is part of aqua its membership of the Council of Europe, and to help improve these efforts, improve the debate and improve the work of doing what the Council of Europe is best and best placed to do in the world, namely to monitor those countries that want to move forward in terms of democracy and rights work, while at the same time criticising and making responsible when Member States do not honour agreements and do not live up to common values. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161447	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161451	Thank you. When you resort to such a decision as to deprive Russia of their right to vote in the Council of Europe, there must be thoughtful thoughts behind it. Why is it Russia in this situation, not Azerbaijan, which was the country holding the presidency and which has violated human rights violently, or Ukraine, which prohibits ordinary NGOs from working freely, let alone talking about the attitude they have towards the press and other things? Where is the limit to such things, and is there not a principle at all that the Council of Europe is a place where you talk, even with your enemies?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161530	Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161532	Yeah, but I also think there's a good reason to keep talking to the Russians. That's not it. I just still believe that something needs to be done after a dialogue, because in my opinion a dialogue is left out of hand unless there is something that can come after the dialogue. Sir. Christian Juhl is quite right in saying that there are other countries to which one might also think about what one might say to draw a line in the sand against. However, I think it is difficult to compare different countries and different countries' behaviour. Russia has invaded another country and failed to meet any of the demands that have been made subsequently, and that is why it is a very special situation. I think most people can see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161630	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161632	But when you are in a critical situation where Russia has invaded another country, is there not a double need for dialogue so that it does not escalate? Now we have heard the rapporteur of the Left being up in the wild cold war tones here half an hour ago, and where should it end if we are to start giving grades and separating people in the assemblies that are said to be there, we are talking?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161658	Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161659	But I do not think that the Enhedslisten rapporteur listens very well to what I am saying. I have no need at all to swing up in any kind of cold-war rhetoric, and I do not think that is what I said. I think there is a good reason why, as I also said in my first reply, we should be in dialogue with the Russians. I also think there is something that needs to be followed by that dialogue, and in this context I think it was sensible to deprive the Russians of the right to vote............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161740	I thank Mrs Liv Holm Andersen. There are no more brief comments. We can move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161758	The SF's rapporteur, Mrs Trine Pertou Mach, cannot be present, so on behalf of her and the SF I should like to thank the Foreign Minister for a fine statement on Denmark's commitment to the Council of Europe. Since we stood here a year ago debating the Minister's statement, a worrying conflict in Europe has been taking place before our eyes. The Russian annexation of Crimea, fighting and violent unrest in Ukraine and the escalation of the level of conflict between Russia and the EU have since clearly underlined the need for institutions such as the Council of Europe. Cooperation and common institutions across European borders are essential to guarantee the rights of European citizens to peace and security in the future and to our common obligations in relation to the rule of law and human rights. The last year has shown us that democracy and peace must never be taken for granted. This is something that we must continually and continuously cultivate, strengthen and insist on. The crisis in Ukraine has dominated much of the work of the Council of Europe in 2014, but other important things are also happening under the auspices of the Council of Europe. The SF supports that Denmark also continues to support election observation missions and long-term human rights promotion efforts in Europe. We support a course in which Denmark actively supports and strengthens the role of the Council of Europe as a central institution in Europe in order to strengthen the rule of law and human rights and peaceful coexistence in Europe. It sometimes looks gloomy and concerns are expressed about the prospect of a new cold war. The more important it is to use a common institutional framework and to maintain the premise that we in Europe live in a community of destiny; we are, as peoples, connected, whatever authoritarian leader sits at the helm for a period of time, thus also in relation to the relationship between Russia and the European Union. That is also why the SF wholeheartedly supports Denmark's active commitment to the Council of Europe; we must continue to do so, and we thank the Foreign Minister and the government for their efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407161957	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407162024	Unfortunately, our representative in the Council of Europe is prevented today, so I have promised to tell you what we think about the matter. It may sometimes seem naive to talk about human rights and democracy, but the reality is that precisely human rights and democracy are crucial tools to avoid war and destruction. That was the lesson of the Second World War, and it is the basis of the Council of Europe, that is, of the Council of Europe. Instead of going to war with Germany to secure the Danish minority in northern Germany, Denmark and the Danish minority can go to the Council of Europe and the Court of Human Rights if there are problems. The German minority and Germany can do the same if they believe that there are minority problems in Denmark. Human rights and democracy are not only beautiful ideals, but concrete tools that keep war and chaos from the door. Unfortunately, both democracy and human rights are in short supply in today's Europe. The civil war in eastern Ukraine, where Russia is well and thoroughly involved, shows how bad things can go even in modern Europe. If the war in Ukraine is to be stopped and peace prevails, then it requires decentralisation in Ukraine and democratic reforms in that country. The Council of Europe has a crucial role to play here. Ukraine's commitments to the Council of Europe conventions are again not just naïve ideals, but tools that can provide an alternative to civil war and oligarchy. It is important that Denmark has supported the work to solve the crimes at Maidan Square in Kiev and against the trade union house in Odessa. It is deeply regrettable that this work has not yet been completed, and I would like to take this opportunity to stress that there is an important responsibility on the Ukrainian Government to contribute constructively to that work. Russia is not just causing problems in Ukraine. Problems with human rights in the country also create a queue at the European Court of Human Rights. It is deeply problematic that countries such as Russia, Azerbaijan and Turkey are repeatedly condemned for the same crime, just committed against different people. The judgments of the Court of Human Rights must be followed by the country, but unfortunately we see an unpleasant tendency for countries to be inspired by Putin's oppressive policy. Most recently, Ukraine has introduced legislation against NGOs similar to that of Russia. Foreign human rights NGOs are accused of being foreign agents. This is among other things. In addition to Norwegian NGOs, which were met by the Parliamentary Committee on Europe when we visited Budapest last year. While the EU has slept per hour, the Council of Europe has repeatedly criticised authoritarian developments in Hungary. Denmark should follow suit and raise criticism when we see the violations, otherwise I fear a frightening development in the EU country. The Hedegaard case has been much discussed at home. The assassinated Dane has disappeared from a Turkish prison while facing extradition to Denmark. Instead, he was extradited to the Turkish intelligence service, which informed the Danish authorities that he would be extradited to Syria. Danish citizens are not to be extradited to Syria. I don't want the assassinally suspected Dane to do that at all. The matter is not only problematic for Lars Hedegaard; it is also proof that Turkey is not a democratic constitutional state. It is therefore also problematic that Turkey has refused to cooperate on the matter in the Council of Europe. Turkey is violating the Council of Europe Convention on Extradition. That is why I call on the Foreign Minister to bring the matter before the European Court of Human Rights. This will not only mean that we can have a decision on the matter before the relevant court, but also mean that the democratic forces in Turkey can have a helping hand, because political interference in pending trials is all too often taking place in Turkey. It was shameful that Azerbaijan, during its Presidency of the Council of Europe, was grossly violating human rights. The country is heading in a totally wrong direction and we must take the criticism of the Commissioner for Human Rights very seriously. Human rights defenders must not be imprisoned and freedom of the media must not be violated. It is important for countries to be subjected to criticism from the Council of Europe. That is precisely the task that the countries have given to the Council of Europe with their membership. That is why we should also note the fierce criticism repeatedly voiced by the Council of Europe in relation to the EU's austerity policy. While the EU unceasingly calls for austerity policy to continue, the Council of Europe has sounded the alarm at the human consequences of austerity policy. This criticism has been voiced by the Commissioner for Human Rights and has been adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly. It is remarkable that right now we have a conflict between two forms of European cooperation, in which the EU's economic governance in the countries makes them break their commitments to the Council of Europe. Denmark should address the problem and we should listen to the Council of Europe's call to invest in equality and human rights when what is most needed is what is in crisis. Human rights are not luxury, but must be there for those at risk when the crisis strikes. Unfortunately, this is all too often forgotten, both at home and in the EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407162631	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407162657	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for a good statement that we have received, which illustrates very well the very broad but also very important work that the Council of Europe is doing. Because it is an important piece of work and there is no doubt that it is a work that we in Denmark must continue to give strong support to. We belong to the circle of countries that have always made an active effort to promote democracy, freedoms and human rights, not least in Europe, and there is one of the tools we have for the Council of Europe. The report reflects the many good efforts that are being made, but at the same time we must recognise that, and I think the debate here also shows that the report also reflects the dilemmas inherent in the work of an organisation such as the Council of Europe. Because there is no doubt about this, and we have a very clear example of this at the moment that countries, not least large countries, can choose to ignore the Council of Europe's foundations and resolutions. That is why we must say that, on the one hand, it is important that we maintain the dialogue. There is no doubt that we must maintain the work of the Council of Europe, because that is what I had almost said, we must cling to at a time when freedoms and democracy are threatened around us. Then it is important that we have an institution, a forum for dialogue, a basis that we can use to put pressure on those countries that do not want to respect freedoms and democracy. So, yes, it is important, on the one hand, that we maintain the dialogue, but on the other hand we must also say that if there are countries, and there are, of course, countries which do not want to respect the foundations, resolutions and decisions of the Council of Europe, then somewhere it must also have a consequence that they do not. What sense does it make, that we have rules and decisions and a basis, and that we are involved and committed to participation in the work on that basis, if the rest of us, I would have almost said, will not allow it to have consequences if we do not want to follow it despite a lot of pressure? This is a dilemma that we just have to live with, and then we have to assess on a case-by-case basis and from country to country how best we can respond to all the time, of course, with the aim of protecting the freedoms of those people who are now living in countries where there is not the kind of democracy that we would like to see. There is, of course, a great focus on Russia and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine in the statement and in the work being done in the Council of Europe at the moment. That's no wonder, there has to be. Conversely, I would say that it is equally important that we do not remove focus from all the other areas of action that are also important, and that when we assess the results of the work we not only look at the success of Russia in the current situation, but that we also look at the impact of the efforts in a large number of other contexts. After all, Denmark is actively participating in the neighbourhood programme. A number of important debates have been carried out, I think, which can serve as a basis for further work. All this is important, and I also think it is important that we stick to the fact that it should not be forgotten and should not be downgraded because we are currently seeing the aggression on the part of Russia as we are doing. Finally, I would like to mention the very special case in which Denmark was very specifically involved, as we have raised it ourselves, namely the case of Turkey's release of the alleged perpetrator in the case of the assassination of Lars Hedegaard. This matter is briefly mentioned in the statement, and I think it is too brief, because it is clear that Turkey did not want to contribute to resolving the matter along the path we have chosen to propose. But my question to the government will be: what do you do? If there are no more tools, are there not more instruments that we can use? However, it must still be possible to use the Council of Europe actively to put pressure on Turkey and also to recognise that Turkey has not complied with the demands that we must make of them when they have released the perpetrator concerned in that situation. I would very much like to hear the Foreign Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407163136	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed. Then it is very appropriate that the next speaker be the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407163147	Thank you very much, President. Let me start by thanking you for a both objective and constructive debate today on an organisation that I believe we all share a view of is extremely important. As several rapporteurs have already mentioned, the period since the last debate in the Folketing in January 2014 has been marked by Russia's annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the conflict with Ukraine. The Council of Europe, in a difficult situation with a deadly conflict between two major member states of the organisation, has shown a strong resilience in its refusal to allow Russia's annexation to form the basis for a change in the status of Crimea. The Council of Europe has consistently maintained that Russia's approach to Ukraine is in vertical conflict with the guiding principles of international law and the Council of Europe, and during the crisis, the Council of Europe has worked to resolve the conflict through dialogue and peaceful means, which has been expressed through extensive support for Ukraine in its extensive reform work for democracy and in order to have a rule of law, in addition to regular dialogue meetings between the Secretary-General and the Russian Government. And, as you know, harder methods have been used to achieve results, among other things. in the Parliamentary Assembly. There I have to say that the reality, as rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, says that the Committee of Ministers should have been on the slow side and that the Danish Government is not taking an active and quite hard line towards Russia, I regret to say that I reject as nonsense. The Ministerial Committee has adopted one resolution after another. The Danish Government has been among those countries in the EU who have worked for quite robust responses to Russia's aggressive behaviour in the form of a sanctions policy which has had a significant negative impact on Russia's economy and helped to maintain that course throughout the period. Different international bodies have different roles in this situation. In my optics, the whip, if you like, is best enforced through the EU, which has sanctions in contrast to the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe can do something else. They can say exactly what they expect from the Member States. We already have. You can then actively support the injured party in the reform process, which is perhaps the most important response to Russia's aggression. That's what they have done. And finally, at political level, we have adopted resolutions which made it quite unacceptable. So I simply have to say that although I fully share the indignation of the rapporteur of the Left over what is going on and the frustration of Russia's behaviour, I do not recognize at all that action by the Committee of Ministers or the Danish Government should be lacking. In concrete terms, Denmark supports the conflict-solving efforts of the Council of Europe as one of the absolutely largest voluntary contributors to the Council of Europe, and we will continue to work to strengthen reforms both in Ukraine, but also in other countries that are deeply affected by this, namely Moldova, Georgia, Armenia, and for that matter also Russia itself, where the rapporteur rightly points out the need for reforms in the media sector, in other words free media. Hopefully, the rapporteur will be aware that Denmark and myself have taken a very concrete initiative to work for more free Russian-speaking media and more independent Russian-speaking media. However, it is true that the core values of the Council of Europe have been under pressure in the past year and not only in the context of the conflict in Ukraine. In a number of other countries too, democracy, human rights and the rule of law are challenged, and Denmark will continue to play a constructive role in the Council of Europe in order to ensure that its expertise is actively used to add value to pan-European cooperation. I very much agree with Mr. Lars Barfoed, when he says that although the Ukraine crisis naturally fills and should fill a great deal in our work in the Council of Europe, we must not forget all the other countries, all the other areas where it is extremely important for the Council of Europe to continue its work, and I will take that recommendation with me. Perhaps one of the most important examples of this is the terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen in January and February 2015, which have also put our values to a serious test and, as a result, steps have actually been taken to prepare an action plan for the role of the Council of Europe in the fight against terrorism. At the same time, extremism and radicalisation will be the main theme of the annual ministerial meeting held in Brussels on 19 May. The action plan will strengthen the legal tools for combating terrorism and establish concrete mechanisms in the education, prison and Internet sectors for preventing and combating radicalisation. On the Danish side, of course, we will be actively involved in the work of the Council of Europe, which also escapes with the government's national initiatives in this area. The re-election of Secretary-General Jagland was a positive event, stressing that the Member States are keeping to the path of reform and efficiency, not least the Court's reform process has produced results, and it is to be expected that as all elements come into force, the Court will be able to further reduce the number of cases pending to be settled. Let me conclude by saying that the European Commission on Human Rights is absolutely central to the development of human rights in the wider Europe that is united in the Council of Europe, and these states have committed themselves to the possibility of their citizens bringing cases of violations before the European Court of Human Rights, which is an important judicial review in my optics too. In EU cooperation, respect for human rights is also central. The European Union, as a very special organisation, should also be able to tolerate the control of the Court of Human Rights, and I would therefore like to say that I can at all today also address the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and others who have brought it up that I find it absolutely regrettable that the statements made by the European Court of Justice in December 2014 raise a number of questions whose clarification could delay the EU's accession to the European Court of Human Rights. I do not think this is satisfactory, and I myself have also had a very clear criticism of it and, moreover, a proposal in other areas where the European Court of Justice could strengthen its operation. Let me finish with the so-called Hedegaard case, in other words with regard to Turkey, which is mentioned in the statement and which several parties have brought up today. Let me just say here that the Danish Government still finds it unacceptable that we cannot get clear answers from Turkey. We're still pushing. Tomorrow there will be a consultation in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in which I will have the opportunity to explain more precisely and also in more confidential forms of exactly where that matter stands, together with the Minister for Justice. So I would urge that we take that orientation in that format. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407163912	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407163917	Thank you. I am glad that my frustration and anger are shared over the behaviour of Russia. It's hard other than that. In other words, we have a great power which exploits the fact that you are a great power to simply be so aggressive that you use weapons, using personnel not only to attack another Member State but to annex part of another Member State. These are so many red lines you've crossed that can even be found in the book on red lines. It is also a breach of all fundamental values in the Council of Europe. And there are two approaches you can have to it. One is that they say: it must not really have any consequence, and let us talk about it. The other is that you take off the velvet gloves and start saying to Putin: Putin, if you want to join part of Europe, you also have to play according to our game rules. Because if they are still allowed to play by their own rules, hasn't the whole idea of the Council of Europe disappeared? That's why I think that's why I'm trying to appeal to the government to take off those velvet gloves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164022	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164023	It is not crystal clear to me what it means in concrete terms. But it could, for example. If I had any idea that it could affect Russia, I would certainly consider it. I don't think so. In fact, I share the whole initial analysis that Michael Aastrup Jensen makes, but I believe that the sanctions currently being enforced by the European Union are the only real pressure we can exert in this situation. I think we need to exert that pressure with one hand, which is why I have also advocated that we maintain sanctions and continue to do so and that we are also ready to turn them up if the situation invites us to do so. That is one part of our policy. With the other hand, of course, we must always try to find a political solution to this problem in the interests of the poor citizens of Crimea, who have involuntarily become hostages throughout this great power game. We need both the firm hand and the open hand. I therefore believe that the Council of Europe is an important source of continuous search for the dialogue which must be the second part of our strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164153	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164155	Well, it would be very nice if we had a member, Russia, who then also respected the decisions taken by the Council of Europe both by the Parliamentary Assembly and the Committee of Ministers, for that matter also the court when they come in and make judgments and decisions, etc. But Russia doesn't. Russia is hammering, flinting indifferent to the various things we adopt. It just keeps on talking and telling that it was Russia, by the way, that saved the whole of Europe during World War II, etc. I have attended a host of these meetings as part of the parliamentary assembly. I know what that rhetoric is like from the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Duma, and so on. There is only one thing I have to say: against such rhetoric and such a world of reality that they live in, I do not believe that dialogue, dialogue and dialogue only work. We can see how far we've come so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164244	I am a strong supporter of a foreign policy that benefits something, and I believe, as I said, that the hard hand is the best way forward through the EU's sanctions policy. I believe that the Council of Europe can be part of the search for a dialogue. If one imagines that one follows the recommendation of the Left rapporteur and, like Russia, takes away their vote or perhaps even their membership of the Council of Europe, I think it would be a welcome opportunity for Putin, who is, of course, responsible for what is happening at the moment, to say: just look here, now I don't know what word he will use, but he often uses the fascists in the West, or what do I know they don't even talk to us anymore. I think it will just be used as a welcome excuse to turn up Russian propaganda once again. We are pursuing the path of sanctions in the European Union, we are pursuing the goal of having independent Russian-speaking media that can tell the Russians what is really going on, and then we are pursuing and insisting on continuing the dialogue at the same time as the two actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164348	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164351	Thank you. I just want to make sure I got it. Does this mean that the Minister would have recommended that the Council of Europe should not deprive Russia of its right to vote if he had the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164404	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164405	Yes, we have not proposed to deprive Russia of the right to vote in the Committee of Ministers, because we do not believe that this step in itself will change the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164415	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164416	After all, we are talking about the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and a majority has just decided to deprive them of the right to vote, and that is where I was interested in the Minister's position. But I understand that it wasn't something he would have liked to do there if he had had the chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164435	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164436	Fortunately, we now have different roles as a minister and a parliamentarian. It can be a great advantage for all parties to be able to distinguish between the two, and I think I will stick to commenting on what I think is the right thing to do as a government and as a minister, as that is what I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164451	Yes, I remember parliamentarians expressing themselves about what ministers should do. But leave it alone. I thank the Secretary of State. No one else has asked for the floor, and that means that the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164504	The debate is open. And the first to speak is Mr. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407164535	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for the written statement. As usual, the statement contains everything about the important work of the organisation and, of course, also about the central focal point: the crisis in Ukraine, which, in addition to the crisis itself in Ukraine, where one Member State has annexed and occupied parts of another Member State, has also influenced the so-called frozen conflicts that we see in Moldova, Nagorno-Karabakh and Georgia, where there was no progress either in the year 2014. I will not comment on the written statement much more, because it is, as always, an accurate picture of the year that went through the OSCE. Instead of spending my time on the parliamentary assembly which is behind the OSCE organisation, also known as the OSCE PA, which unfortunately does not fill much in the statement. The OSCE is working with security through laws, rules and agreements, and all these measures have been made to help us in times of crisis, such as: now this one in Ukraine. That is why the OSCE is so important. But the organization has the weakness of consensus. There should be no agreement in the OSCE PA, which is why this side of the OSCE is so important because here all issues can be raised and all issues discussed. Denmark, which hosts the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, makes by far the largest contribution to the work of this institution. It is therefore strange that the Minister in Section 1, paragraph 3, talks about the three independent institutions of the OSCE without talking about the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Minister, we must have that corrected, because I know that both the Minister himself and the device behind it have great respect for the OSCE PA. I also attach great importance to this House because it is right to claim that the OSCE PA is also the only institution working on a democratic basis. This was, of course, most clear in the last part of this session, as the OSCE PA was the only part of the OSCE that made clear and strong criticism of Russia's aggression in Ukraine. As usual, the OSCE has been blocked in almost everything that has been tried, because of the right of veto of Russia and, of course, of all other countries. Fortunately, the parliamentary assembly could vote on the really critical opinions of OSCE people. In the OSCE PA, no veto can be vetoed here, everything can be discussed and discussed. In both elections in Ukraine, as usual • parliamentarians from the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly were appointed as leaders of the electoral observation. And there is no doubt that the ODIHR has done a great and very good job, but it is disappointing that it is described as having contributed only as observers. In future, if we want politicians to participate in the sightings, we must also give them the credit they deserve. It is a great and necessary work to conduct an observation, and it gives an extra legitimacy that it is a politician who directs an election observation. Given the political relevance of the two elections in Ukraine, the parliamentary assembly also came forward with some of the largest and most widespread missions ever. The leadership of the missions spent several weeks of time throughout Ukraine, also in Donetsk, Luhansk and other parts of Ukraine where there are battles. With the OSCE PA team in Moscow, it was the first time ever that the OSCE had observers outside the borders of a country, and it was, of course, the Ukrainians who had requested this effort. I myself was at the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow, and I saw the waiting time, partly the very massive security announcement by the Russian side, which does not exactly promote a large turnout. The OSCE PA has also been critical of the mission on the borders of Ukraine and Russia not because you are not skilled at the job that is currently being disputed, but because that job is meaningless. As the statement suggests, it is not a serious surveillance of the border if it covers only 40 km out of the 400 km long stretch of the border. The only thing that will be covered by such a mission is Russia, which can point to the statements made by the mission that they have not seen any Russian troops or military equipment crossing the border of the 40 km border posts on which the mission must express its opinion. One must rightly ask why Denmark has agreed to the mission if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself is critical. Are we legitimizing something that we know doesn't hold? You only cover 10%. of the border. I often hear in the OSCE that countries with a western background are being called for to invite election observers. If we are to give greater legitimacy to the OSCE and to the ODIHR, work must be done. The former Eastern countries are good at inviting, but not many of the old Western countries do. It creates an imbalance that could backfire. So, Minister, should we not, as an old democracy, open the doors to the OSCE and allow them to monitor a forthcoming parliamentary elections? I think that would be to the credit of both Denmark and the OSCE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407165111	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407165120	Thank you. And thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. This is a good opportunity to highlight the OSCE as an organisation and to discuss the work under way. The OSCE is about security and cooperation, about democracy, human rights and security policy. And traditionally, the OSCE has been an important player in building a bridge between East and West. This is not a simple task today, on the contrary, and the OSCE has had more and more difficulty in finding the necessary consensus, among other things. against the background of problems with Russia. This has meant lowering the level of ambition in some areas. At the same time, however, we can see that with the crisis in Ukraine we have seen that the OSCE is able to fulfil a very, very important task on the other hand. For the OSCE appears impartial; one is able to handle conflicts, conflictless qualities, which are right, really important in the crisis we face in the middle of Ukraine. In such an acute situation, we, as an international community, also need an impartial and factual presentation of the situation in the area, which is why the special monitoring mission is important. It acts as a kind of eye and ear on the ground, of course, with the reservations expressed by the rapporteur from the Left in relation to border surveillance, etc., but it is still a very important task to resolve in many other areas. The same applies to the observation of the implementation of the ceasefire with the Minsk Agreement. These are very important tasks. Of course, we support this from the Danish Parliament, both financially and with staff. We send people as observers, and from the Danish Parliament we also support the work that is going on and has been carried out in 2014, among others. with the two choices. In this context, I would like to thank the fellow Members of Parliament who have put time and effort into the work of the OSCE in the past year. Thank you for your cooperation. Especially in Ukraine, it has been very important that we have been able to be so strongly represented by what was, after all, the greatest election observation ever made. The Social Democrats continue to support the organisation's work and we support Denmark's support for this. I would just like to conclude by thanking the Minister for his statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407165415	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407165419	Thank you. I would like to thank my Socialist colleague, who is also Vice-President of the OSCE PA, who has just heard about something to spell it out completely, and that is probably mostly for my own sake: we have border surveillance covering 40 km out of a 400 km limit, and does the rapporteur think that it is satisfactory to look only at 40 km out of a 400 km limit, because then there is a 360 km limit that can be sent over military equipment and other things? Are we not basically helping to legitimise a process, rather than making sure that no troops and military hardware come in that can help to exacerbate a conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407165459	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407165501	We need to monitor what we can, but without legitimising what we can't. I think it is very important to maintain that the role Russia has recently played in the OSCE poses problems. The real right of veto which they have in relation to anything other than what is happening in the PA is problematic. That is, for example, the case. in the situation where we would like to have monitored the Ukrainian-Russian border, difficult to talk about that is a real surveillance. It is not based on a lack of will from the organisation as such, but on a disagreement between the Member States that are part of the organisation and, of course, Russia in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407165549	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen refrains from the second brief remark. There are no further brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407165604	Thank you. I would also like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, for his statement on the work of the OSCE in the past year. We can say very well about the OSCE, and this has already been done, and it can be said that in recent decades the OSCE has not quite had the same impact on cooperation in Europe and on the security situation as it had during the Cold War. Unfortunately, however, it can also be said that over the past few years there has been something very similar to what we knew during the Cold War, which has returned, and on that basis, unfortunately, the OSCE can end up having a renaissance and again having the function it had in the past. After all, the OSCE's primary task is to be a security and cooperation organisation in Europe, but of course also with the participation of a number of countries that we do not normally associate with Europe, namely the United States and Canada and also the very easternest old Soviet states, which at least geographically have nothing to do with Europe. After all, one of the important tasks is to be an election observer and to keep an eye on the democratic rules of the game being respected by the states. Of course, because it is so diverse countries that are members of the OSCE, there are also countries between which democratic culture and democratic traditions are not as rooted as in our part of the world, and that is why, in this context, it is of course fully relevant that the OSCE has the role of election observer. I would also like to say, as others have said, that the Ukraine conflict has filled a great deal in the work of the OSCE in the past year. It almost also fills the whole statement, which the Foreign Minister is behind. It is quite natural because it is something that has filled so much in the security situation here on the continent. Against this background, it is quite possible that the OSCE will have this renaissance that I was talking about before, and that it could be an excellent forum for cooperation between those parties that are currently not so easy together, namely Ukraine, Russia and Western Europe. I would also like to say, last but not least, that we in the Danish People's Party appreciate the OSCE, also as a good example of international cooperation, where free, independent countries cooperate on an equal footing. It is a cooperation in which we do not impose or have the power to impose anything on each other. It is thus a good example of international cooperation, which is a counterpart of the European Union, where a large part of Denmark's international cooperation takes place, and which is, of course, an organisation where you have the power to impose different decisions on each other. So in the Danish People's Party we hold fast to international fora, where we are still acting as free countries and where we cannot be imposed, and therefore we appreciate OSCE cooperation. Against this background, I should also like to thank you for the cooperation that I myself have participated in in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. It is true that I have only attended one meeting in the last year, namely the winter meeting in Vienna. In this context, however, I should like to thank the Foreign Minister for his cooperation over the past year and to thank him once again for his statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407170012	Thank you. There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407170017	Thank you. I would also like to thank my colleague for a good rapporteur's speech. Of course, I share the rapporteur's view that it is necessary for the OSCE to have the necessary tools. However, I do not share the view of the rapporteur that this might remind us of a new cold war. I think we should keep this kind of rhetoric completely out of it, precisely because we are talking here about a conflict between two OSCE countries. And if everyone had just lived up to the OSCE's purpose, there would have been rules and agreements to deal with it. What I am missing is whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party agrees with me that the occupation of eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea are totally reprehensible behaviour on the Russian side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407170057	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407170058	I can only agree entirely with the rapporteur of the Left. It is a reprehensible act that has taken place in terms of both Crimea and Russian involvement in eastern Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407170112	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen has no further comments. Then I would also like to thank Mr. Mikkel Dencker, for there was no one else who wanted short remarks. And then we move on to Mrs Liv Holm Andersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407170122	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking my partners from Parliament's parties in this area and thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on the work of the OSCE, an organisation which, unfortunately, has come back to its right in earnest as a result of the crisis in Ukraine. In the Radical Left, however, we are not one of those who thought that the OSCE had no great justification for its involvement in Ukraine, and I would therefore also like to pay tribute to the statement that, in addition to being thorough about precisely the involvement in Ukraine, we should also address the other activities that are taking place in the democratic and security work that is taking place in Europe and in Europe's neighbouring countries and spheres of interest. These are activities that range widely and which, as colleagues here from the platform have explained, lead the Western Balkans further towards democracy and monitor frozen conflicts in Moldova and Georgia and in many other places, as well as, of course, which we have also talked about today, ensure free and fair elections and much more. I myself had the pleasure, together with several other rapporteurs from several other parties of the Folketing, of taking part in the delegation visits of the Folketing to the OSCE representations in Kosova, Serbia and Bosnia, and here there were several of the activities that actually impressed me. There was work to bring together the northern and Serbian municipalities of Kosova with the rest of the country, and there was the collection that has taken place in Bosnia, of thousands of weapons from the civil war in the 1990s, just to mention a few examples that also support this with the fact that the OSCE really has many good activities. I was also given the opportunity to experience being an election observer in Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine, where I was also pleased with the situation and, given the situation, comforted by seeing that in practice this task also works well, at least in practice, even when working conditions are difficult, as they are obviously in Ukraine right now. So all of this is obviously a big and important work, and I am glad that Denmark is a large part of it. Recently, what is happening in Ukraine and the attempt here to be a mediator between the Ukrainians and the Russians and to try to act as a sensible third party in the negotiations have been all-over-shadowing in the work of the OSCE, as several people have also mentioned. A great deal is being done here, which, of course, is a great deal in the Minister's statement. It is trying to push for more, for example, to be done in relation to what is being done here to be allowed to observe by controlling a larger part of the border, so that it will be made more difficult to get material and other things into Ukraine, as well as pushing for more observation missions in Lugansk and Donetsk, without ever having to be followed closely by separatists. It is certainly not easy, but Denmark must be one of the countries that is also trying to get the OSCE as an organisation to develop and improve that work, of course, in cooperation with all relevant parties. These were also some of the things that I myself tried to ask a little about with the Russian delegation when the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly held a winter session in Vienna recently. However, I believe that the Members who attended can testify that there was not a great deal of answers, at least not very constructive answers, so I suppose it is not that easy at ministerial and government level either. But, of course, we must continue to press where we can. However, as I have said, this is a difficult task, and I do not really believe that the OSCE is working in, and certainly not with, the pressing and acute situation in Ukraine, a particularly easy forum to work in, because it is always this balancing process. It is always the case in the most pressing situations that you are a third party in a situation where there are already several parties involved. So it's slow, and it's slow, and sometimes you almost lose patience. However, both in the case of Ukraine and in very many other cases, I believe, the Radical Left, in return, that the OSCE is our best tool in terms of being present, in terms of being able to observe, monitor and negotiate independently. And it is a tool we must use and a tool we must play our part in trying to do better. It remains to say that, for the Radical Left, the cooperation of international organisations, including of course the OSCE, is immensely important, and we are pleased that Denmark itself, for a small country, promises a large part of the responsibility here. Thank you very much for the floor and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407170721	We thank Mrs Liv Holm Andersen. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407170737	Thank you. After all, the OSCE is a child of the Cold War and of the détente initiatives launched in the 1970s in connection with the Helsinki process. In this context, the CSCE and the current OSCE have played a very, very important role in preventing more instability in Europe, which would otherwise have been the best way of expressing it. In this sense, the OSCE still plays an important role. There is no doubt that when we saw the collapse of communism in 1989 and subsequent years, we had the idea that now all the conflicts in Europe were gone, that we could now start working together and that there would be no need for organisations such as the CSCE at that time. It turned out to be different. We first had the Yugoslav civil war and the nightmare that took place down there; we had border conflicts in various places; and now, finally, we are back in what some have called a new cold war. I think that's a wrong expression. We are not out in anything like the Cold War after World War II until 1989, but we are out in something that can well develop in that direction. That is why it is absolutely essential that we do what we can to prevent this from developing, that we exercise due diligence and have an organisation that can go in and prevent conflicts from developing, that they cannot be kept under control. And that is why it is so crucial that the OSCE is there and that we in Denmark have a strong commitment to the work of the OSCE. It is, of course, about what we are dealing with, namely observing choices, going out and making various projects that can prevent conflicts from developing. I certainly believe that in the discussion that needs to be held between all the parties involved in this conflict, it is important to have an organisation which can, as it were, intervene in such a way that there is confidence from everywhere. And that is why the OSCE has a very crucial role to play throughout the Ukraine conflict and has also had it in the context of the conflicts that exist in Georgia. To the extent that we will see a continuation of what we have looked at lately, what is not unlikely, there is no doubt that the OSCE will have an increasing and more important role to play and that we in Denmark must pay attention to it and also give all the support it is possible to give to it at all. It is about going in and monitoring, monitoring, ensuring that agreements are respected, with the competences and powers that you may now have, which are not always perfect, but which are the ones you have been able to agree on, and which are nevertheless important, so there are some who can go in and say: "That's how it is, and that's how it develops." We can see that the OSCE can play that role because it is taking place in Ukraine, and I believe that the OSCE will have more and more such tasks. I think we should take this as an expression of the need to have an organisation that can have a status like that of the OSCE and that can play such a role. That is why we are also pleased with the statement made by the government. We are pleased that the government is giving priority to the work of the OSCE and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407171216	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407171227	I would like to thank you for your statement. Last year I began my comment in this way: I agree with the previous speakers, especially those who have mentioned that the OSCE is filling everything, far too little in the minds of ordinary people. Most people know what the European Union is and most people know what NATO is. But it should be the other way around, so that most people knew what the OSCE is and what the United Nations is, because in my opinion these are the two most important organisations. I just have to promise that things have changed since then. The OSCE has become known to many, although it is on a dull backdrop, especially because of the conflict in Ukraine. But more about it in a minute. The OSCE plays an important role because it has the dialogue and conflict resolution as the central element and peaceful coexistence as its objective. The OSCE was created during the Cold War and, unfortunately, we are now in a situation where something similar to cold war is emerging again which might at least be similar in some language. It is therefore also sad that the development of the OSCE's activities is stagnating, but it is positive to see that, after all, there are problems that have been resolved in the past year. Last year, the mandate of the Media Freedom Representative was extended. It is, of course, a very important work, especially in these times when there are countries that think that it is the state that should decide which media should be and where journalists are being pursued on an unprecedented scale. However, I do not believe in the idea from among others. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that other States should contribute to counter-propaganda in, for example: Russia. I am nervous that it will have the opposite effect than what is intended. Freedom of expression is not developed through a struggle between Putin's propaganda transmitters and propaganda transmitters funded by European countries. I believe more that it must be the people themselves and the popular organisations that allow a counterpower to grow up and support the work of freedom of expression. Then we can support those organisations instead. The second seems too violent and I think Putin would be able to say: there you can see, the propaganda flows in from those who do not like us. I am also pleased with what has been mentioned earlier by others: a consensus on freedom of religion and belief and, above all, the strengthening of the work on Roma and Sintir rights. The way in which these minorities are treated is unacceptable, and it is therefore important that we stand together to combat discrimination. The same applies to trafficking in human beings, which the OSCE also deals with. The OSCE plays an important role when society gets started with reform processes, democratisation, elections, minority rights and the fight against cross-border crime. Denmark focuses very much on conventional arms control, and it remains an important task to convince all countries that this effort must be stepped up. We are in a situation where disarmament of both nuclear and conventional weapons is necessary. It is problematic that the Russians cannot understand that we must continue the CFE Treaty. We need to provide a situation where we know where the weapons are and how they are being moved around. Then there is the Ukraine question: it naturally fills a lot in the report, it is a difficult conflict, it is unacceptable that Crimea is part of Russia. Serious questions may be raised in the vote that has been taken and we believe that we must demand that, if there is to be a change in some countries, such decisions should be made under international supervision and in accordance with international standards. The battles in Eastern Ukraine have been considerably reduced following the peace agreement, but the situation is very unstable. There are no heroes in this terrible conflict; Putin is interfering in Ukraine's internal affairs in an unacceptable way and blowing the flames of the conflict between the Ukrainian Government and the Russian minority. However, the Ukrainian Government is not very willing to find solutions and has not treated its minorities properly. There must be both decentralization and greater democracy in Ukraine if peace is to be guaranteed. But the EU and NATO have also played with some muscles they should not have wanted to use, and have created false expectations in circles in Ukraine that they can have membership of both the EU and NATO. After 1990, when the Wall fell, many of the OSCE's tasks were changed. In 1990 James Baker told Gorbachev, when negotiating East Germany and the unification of West Germany, that if East Germany and West Germany were reunited, NATO would not be enlarged by as much as an inch to the east. Since then, a lot has happened. Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Albania, Macedonia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania have all become members of NATO. This means that the words of the then Secretary of State of the United States were not worth much in the current situation. I mention this because it is important that we also look at how things have developed. If we want to change the behaviour of our opponents, for example. Russia's, we must learn their thinking not to take it over, but to understand the reasons and to be better at changing what we want to change. We need to read Russia's fear and nervousness about what can happen if we want to help resolve the conflict. And there I think that self-criticism from both the European Union and NATO was not a bad thing in this current conflict. It is difficult to predict where it can end, but surely it is precisely the OSCE that will play a major role if it is to end peacefully. The OSCE must have a more central role in the coming years if the Ukraine conflict is to be resolved. This year the OSCE is turning 40 years old and I think we should do everything we can as a nation to promote the OSCE's having the peace and conflict-solving role that we need so much. Let our goal for the next 40 years mean that the OSCE will have as much resources as, for example, the OSCE. NATO to strengthen its capacity to secure peace, conflict resolution, disarmament and the promotion of human rights and freedom of expression. So from here there is full support for continuing to work with and develop the OSCE.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407171948	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl, and we move on to the next rapporteur. As far as I can tell, sir. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407172012	Here too, I would like to thank the Minister for his report. It is a report which, as with the Council of Europe, examines in a good way the many important challenges and issues dealt with by the OSCE. There is no doubt that the OSCE is a very important organisation. It has been since the Cold War, and it has continued, and with the developments we are seeing in the security situation in Europe at the moment, there is no doubt that the OSCE will perhaps have a significant role to play more than for many years. We must also say here, as in the discussion on the Council of Europe, that there are dilemmas in this, because we can be part of the OSCE and yet choose to ignore the objectives, the work and the decisions that are actually being taken in the OSCE. That's the way it is. However, we should never fail to have a dialogue, and in this particular situation, we have security policy in Europe at the moment, where the conflict between Russia and Ukraine is so marked, it is of course important that, at the same time as we apply sanctions, we also seek to negotiate, not least with Russia. I think it is a difficult task that one then has. I also believe that Mrs Liv Holm Andersen mentioned this a moment ago in relation to what we experienced at the recent meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna, where we saw a Russia with which it was very difficult to have a sensible dialogue. It was the case that Russia almost ignored the mood around them, and it was actually quite clear that it was also very difficult between parliamentarians to have a real dialogue on the problems associated with the conflict between Russia and Ukraine at the moment. I would say that it was very much a denial of reality on the part of the Russian representatives. However, it should not continue to prevent us from having meetings, to have a dialogue, to have negotiations with Russia. Then I have noted that it points to the somewhat lower level of ambition that is in a number of areas due to the crisis in Ukraine. I also noted this in the statement on the Council of Europe, but I think it is almost as if there is a relentless attitude. That is the tone in relation to the other issues that I am reading into the statement here. It is important that, despite the crisis in Ukraine and between Russia and Ukraine, the OSCE should not ignore all the other challenges and important tasks it has. I think that we should perhaps put pressure on the Danish side to step up efforts in the other areas, otherwise it is the same as letting Russia dictate us to step up efforts in a number of other areas, so it is important that we keep the tab high in the other areas as well. Then I have noted that I shall not be able to say it, because I have made no comparison, I think, a little strange absence of any reference to the work of what is called the Permanent Council in Vienna. In other words, part of the work in the OSCE is exactly what is going on where we have a decision-making body. I don't think there's a lot of references to it. I wonder whether it is because you deliberately want to be closed about what is going on there, do not have a dialogue about it, or what is the reason why the work of the Permanent Council is not reflected in the statement at all? I would like to hear the Minister's comments on that. Like Peter Juel Jensen, I would also like to make the point that we are talking about the important work that is going on, not least with the monitoring of the border between Russia and Ukraine, that I have noted that it is only, and I believe that Peter Juel Jensen said it, and that is also the figure I have noted, 40 metres of a 400 km long border that is actually being monitored. I have even been told that observers are not allowed to use binoculars. So it is not much of what can happen along the very long limit that can be observed when it is so small an observation option that is. So perhaps there is a need for us to press for better observation options. One final remark concerns the parliamentary assembly, which I also find very superficially affected here. Firstly, I think it is a mistake to mention only that there are three independent institutions in the OSCE. There is, of course, a fourth, the parliamentary assembly, which may well be said to be an independent institution in the OSCE, and I think that both the Minister and the Minister should not have written the whole statement themselves and those who write a draft statement should be aware of that for the next time. I think it's a mistake that's been sneaking in there. Secondly, I think that the statement lacks to reflect the great effort made by parliamentarians in election observation, not least in Ukraine. Indeed, it is Members of Parliament who have led the two major electoral missions in Ukraine. In this way, when I read the report, I do not think that the focus of the Parliamentary Assembly, which, incidentally, has its headquarters here in Copenhagen, should be given to it. I would also like to ask the Minister to pay attention and perhaps comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407172620	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed. The next speaker is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407172629	Thank you. Let me start by thanking all the rapporteurs for their comments. It is nice to see that there is still a great deal of interest in the OSCE and support for Denmark's work in the organisation. I can start by confirming to Mr. Lars Barfoed, that I have received a little help in writing the statement, and that is why I will of course also take back the fallen comments to those who have helped to write it. With its 57 States Parties and broad security concepts, the OSCE is a unique organisation and an important forum to discuss and address a wide range of democratic, human rights and security challenges in Europe. And, as several rapporteurs have said, during the past year it has clearly been the crisis in Ukraine that has demonstrated the important role that the OSCE is capable of fulfilling. But I fully agree with Mr. Lars Barfoed in saying that it is also true here that a large number of other areas can and should be prioritised because the OSCE appears impartial and because the OSCE has mechanisms for conflict management and resolution, which have proved very useful in many crises, and not least in the one we are witnessing in Ukraine at the moment. The OSCE is contributing with a multi-faceted effort in Ukraine. Diplomatically, the organisation contributes through the Trilateral Contact Group with Russia, Ukraine and the OSCE Presidency as participants. And the Special Monitoring Mission SMM is the largest international presence in Ukraine and plays a crucial role in monitoring the security and human rights situation as well as facilitating dialogue between the parties to the conflict locally. The SMM mission is, so to speak, the eyes and ears of the international community on the ground, just as, following the latest implementation agreement in Minsk, it has been given a role in observing the implementation of the ceasefire agreement, for example. The withdrawal of heavy weapons. That is quite correct when both Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, sir. Lars Barfoed and also the Danish People's Party rapporteur note that it is, of course, a sporadic monitoring exercise. It's not just 40 km out of the 400 km, it's 40 m why be there? asks Mr. Peter Juel Jensen. I understand the question, because we must never legitimise something we cannot vouch for. But here the assessment has been by both the OSCE and our side that being ready to expand the area and be present so that, at the moment, we can do so, we have weighed more heavily than the concern that it might be used for propaganda, to put it plainly. Having this kind of observation established is something that takes time. Now, because we are there, we have the opportunity to expand them if we get the chance, and of course we have to work actively for that. On the Danish side, in 2014 we supported OSCE activities and missions in Ukraine with financial contributions as well as by the retraction of personnel. The total Danish voluntary contribution to the SMM mission amounts to approx. 6 million kr., while the number of Danish SMM observers at present. is 14, and we're looking to get up to 20. In the context of the implementation of the presidential elections in Ukraine in May 2014 and then the parliamentary elections in October 2014, the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE has played an important role in relation to election observation. It was simply one of the largest election observation missions ever. As several speakers have said, Denmark contributed electoral observers to both elections, as well as the OSCE parliamentarians of the Folketing also participated. Finally, let me take this opportunity to thank the Danish OSCE parliamentarians both for their hard work in connection with election observation and their work in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. As Mr. Lars Barfoed said it is indeed also an important independent institution. And I actually agree with both him and Mr. Mr Peter Juel Jensen said that the work of the Members of the European Parliament could fill something more in our statement, and we will pay attention to that next year. Because I agree that it is a unique contribution that goes one way, in terms of obtaining qualified observers on the spot who know what an election is also on their own, if I may say so. But there is also a very important information going the other way, namely that the debate today is marked by the fact that those Members of Parliament who have been away from, for example, the European Parliament. Danish side, comes home with an increased insight, with an increased knowledge and thus can also contribute to our efforts. This could be done more by describing and exploiting it. However, the Ukraine conflict has taken up most of the OSCE agenda in 2014 and has meant that the level of ambition in other areas has had to be reduced. And, as I said, I agree in principle with Mr McMillan-Scott. Lars Barfoed says it's too bad. This is probably an expression of a reality that applies everywhere else, namely that there are limited resources. But it also shows that it has become more difficult to achieve the necessary consensus among the 57 participating States of the OSCE on new OSCE decisions and actions, among others. And that is the method of the organization. After all, it is encouraging that agreement has nevertheless been reached on the OSCE's major efforts in relation to the Ukraine conflict. But there is a lot of work to be done. We might as well say this in future to ensure that all countries comply with the OSCE's values, principles and obligations, including in practice. I can guarantee that this is an important work that we in Denmark want to engage in. That is also why we are engaging in communication and press activities not in counter-propaganda, because that is of course not the objective. We should not create counter-propaganda in response to Russia's propaganda. We just need to ensure that the independent media present are given the opportunity to make their own independent choice of facts and that they have a real editorial freedom which they find difficult to fight today due to lack of resources and access to data. Finally, I would like to comment on Mr Seligman's report. Peter Juel Jensen's suggestion to invite the OSCE here to a parliamentary election. I think that in itself is a fascinating thought. However, I would like to take the great reservation that, as the reality stands today, and as there are limited resources in the OSCE, in which the organisation rightly prioritises hard, it may not be exactly the right timing, as the world looks like today. So the idea I will allow myself to go home, but perhaps only execute when the situation hopefully turns into that about, what do I know, 1, 2 or more years; I dare not put that on right now. But thank you for the debate and the constructive contributions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173338	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173343	Thank you and thank you for the Minister's attention to the possibility of inviting the OSCE. For the reality is, Minister, when we get around election observation in this way and we sit at meetings in the OSCE, that many of the former Eastern European countries are then very much wondering why they are expected to invite them to observe the elections, but that not many Western countries are doing so; in fact, it is now only America that invites them to observe elections. So if we are to have an opportunity in any way to gain insight into how the old countries of Eastern Europe are starting democracy and how far they have progressed and so on, then we also have to re-invite. You can always invite, and maybe it's not safe for the guests to come, but at least they've had the chance. That was a comment. Then I also have a very brief question. On September 5th, an ethical border guard was kidnapped by Russian forces. Is it something that the Minister has raised in the Council of Ministers, or is it something that the Minister is aware of? And is that something the Minister wants to discuss with the other OSCE countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173445	In relation to the last question, I would like to say that this is a really serious and very unfortunate matter which, by its very nature, is of great concern to my Estonian colleague. From the outset, Denmark has expressed its very immediate sympathy with Estonia, and we have also said that, to the extent that we can help to put pressure on Russia in order to get it free, we would like to do so, and I myself have tried to exert such pressure publicly on several occasions. As far as I am aware, the matter is unfortunately rather awkward, but to answer the question in concrete terms, I would like to say that, of course, it is Estonia itself that is in charge of how this can best be done in the balance between pressure and dialogue with the Russian authorities, and that is why I maintain most of all bilateral contact with Estonia in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173542	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173544	Thank you. I had the great pleasure of being on a trip with NATO PA to the Baltic States, and I thought it would be clear that as more and more Russian provocations come along, and not least with the kidnapping of a border guard, the rhetoric is sharpened. The Minister also knows with the Minister's insight that when rhetoric gets tightened up too much, then you go over and use other methods. So, of course, we must support our good friends in the Baltic countries and keep putting firm and moderate pressure on Russia. Because it is a very, very big thing for Estonia to stand alone and argue to have its border guard back home, and that is why we need all good friends to join the choir. So I hope that the Minister will continue his pressure on Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173635-2	I can guarantee that we stand shoulder to shoulder with Estonia in this matter. I am fully aware of the fact that, after many visits to the Baltic States, the current conflict for good reasons fills an incredible amount in both their domestic policy and their foreign policy. The specific incidents we are referring to here are not something that we should in any way ignore, and to the extent that we can contribute at all, we do so. I think Estonia is aware that Denmark would like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173706	Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173708	Thank you. Thank you for the answers about the Parliamentary Assembly. And may I have a word on Mr. Knox? Peter Juel Jensen's idea of perhaps inviting a mission to Denmark say that there is the possibility of making a so-called limited mission, so that you do not spend the large resources on it, and it might be a consideration to do so. The question I would like to ask, however, is this with the Permanent Council, which I do not think the Minister responded to. So my request that it also fills something in the statement. However, this is a very important part of the overall work of the OSCE, and I think there may be a need to create some transparency about the work of the Permanent Council in Vienna. So could the Minister not consider at least in the future to ensure that it also gets some fullness, and perhaps work to make it more transparent, so that we can see the work there to a greater extent as part of the overall work of the OSCE?
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173803	Yes, I am sorry that I did not get it with the Permanent Council in my first reply. I am happy to bring back the lost remarks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I actually see the Permanent Council as the machine room itself in the OSCE. That is where our OSCE ambassadors from each country sit and make the daily decisions, if you like. That is to say, they are the ones who are sitting and getting our instructions as a government and with a mandate from the places where we are now drawing a mandate for our policies. This means that, in this way, it is the most operational, executive body we have in the OSCE. That is where the policy is expressed, if you like. If you can make it visible and also, you can say, highlight and explain how the Permanent Council works and what it is, then we would very much like to do so. In this way, however, it could also be said that the policy pursued by the OSCE is, in practice, laid down in the Permanent Council, at least in the vast majority of cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173910	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173911	Well, I kind of agree with that. But that is precisely why it is perhaps strange that it is not reflected in the statement. And that is precisely why there may be a need for some transparency and some dialogue on the work of the Permanent Council. So I really think that the Minister's remarks support the need to allow it to fill more and allow there to be more debate about what is going on there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173940	Yes, but, as I said, I would like to take back the comments that have fallen as an inspiration for next year's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173948	As no one else has asked for the floor, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the debate has ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20150407173958	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 8 April 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
