ParlaMint-DK_20151204100005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 73 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 74 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 75 (Proposal for a law amending the law on integration and the law on planning. Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF), Christina Egelund (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 48 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the implementation of the initiatives in the plan •Danish welfare in Europe). Christian Poll (ALT) and Villum Christensen (LA) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 49 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of competition and financial guarantees in the public supply of offshore wind turbines). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100115	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100137	Member of the Folketing Carl Holst has applied for leave from 4 December 2015, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c), while a member of the Folketing, Mai Mercado, applied for leave from 4 December 2015, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100223	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left of South Jutland's Grand Board, Hans Christian Thoning, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 4 December 2015, on the occasion of Carl Holst's leave, and that the First Deputy of the Conservative People's Party in Fyns Storkreds, Anders Johansson, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 4 December 2015, on the occasion of Mai Mercado's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100303	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 109 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100337	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100408	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-5 by the Minister for Industry and Growth, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100418	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100428	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (LA), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100507	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100525	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 67 (S, V, ALT, RV and KF), against 43 (DF, EL, LA and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100606	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100643	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100718	Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204100817	Thank you, President. As I said, allow me to make some comments on the amendments to the L 2 and L 3, but in order for those comments to make sense, I will first allow myself to put it in a little relief. Because these are very important proposals that we are dealing with here, and in politics there are many words, and there are many discussions. But what we politicians ultimately have to measure is what we do and not what we say. We must be measured by what we ultimately vote in this Chamber. About six months ago we had an election campaign in Denmark, an election campaign in which the close welfare was at the centre. Thanks to the responsible political direction of the SR government, we could again discuss whether money should be spent on tax relief, welfare or something quite different, and not just how we should pay the bills from last time, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl ruled Danish economy. The Liberal Alliance would have minus growth and lower taxes on especially the most expensive cars. Left would have zero growth and tax cuts to the richest heirs. In the social democracy we would have a modest increase in the money spent on close welfare. It was not gold and green forests, but it was real money for real welfare that would be felt. Then there was mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who wanted more than most. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl wanted Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as the prime minister of the country, be on the team with Mr. Anders Samuelsen and, at the same time, he wanted to spend more money on welfare. Yes, actually, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl spends more money on welfare than we wanted in the Social Democratic Party, and there should be no tax cuts either. So far, however, the results have not been similar to what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl put the Danes in a view. Okay, well, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen Prime Minister congratulations on that, even though Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has recently repeated and repeated that the Prime Minister is untrustworthy. Nevertheless, with the financial law agreement it was clear that while the Prime Minister was receiving tax relief for millionaire heirs, Mr. Anders Samuelsen received lower taxes, especially on luxury cars and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen could have fulfilled his request for a freeze on the ground, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl chose to put his signature on an agreement without more money for welfare. Yes, that choice, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, when he joined the Finance Act, actually means that there will be less welfare in the coming years, and that is even, although, before the negotiations began, there was money in the Treasury for improvements. It is a choice and it is a decision that will be felt in the future in kindergartens, schools and many other places in the Danes' close welfare. Today, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the rest of the Danish People's Party again faced an election, a choice that is crucial to the welfare of the years to come. For we are ahead of the draft budget L 1: two legislative proposals, L 2 and L 3, which will mean minus growth in the municipalities in 2017, in 2018 and in 2019. As far as the eye can see, every New Year's municipalities have to cut a new bite of the bag of money they put off for example. day care providers, good education in schools and home helpers will have the time to care when they come through the door, and this will be felt. It will be felt across the country, also in municipalities where members of the Danish People's Party, who are present today at this vote, sit in the municipal council. What we vote in a moment will make a difference in municipalities such as Fredericia, Greve, Guldborgsund, Haderslev, Hedensted, Assens, Herning, Helsingør, Horsens, Hvidovre and Sønderborg, just to mention some of the examples in places where members of the Danish Parliament from the Danish People's Party sit in the municipal council. These municipalities will have to plan large-scale savings in the coming years. We Social Democrats do not want that. We want a solid bottom under the municipalities' economy at a time when there will be more and more older citizens. That is why we are opposed to multi-annual minus growth in the municipalities, and that is why a united opposition of us Social Democrats, Radicals, Enhedslisten, Alternativet and SF is behind two amendments which cancel minus growth and thus ensure a bottom under the municipal economy and welfare in the coming years. That's the choice, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and each member of the Danish People's Party are to meet today. The real question to be asked is this: will we vote in favour of our amendment and thus cancel minus growth, or will we add votes to negative growth in the municipalities, as far as we can see? This is it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and every member of the Danish People's Party must be measured, not just by what they say, but by what they actually do. They must be measured by what they actually vote in this Chamber. Just one DF vote for the proposal from the overall opposition to minus growth over the next four years is actually enough to ensure that there is a bottom under the welfare of the municipalities. Before the financial rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, step up here on the platform and regret by saying that the financial law agreement, oh, that is not something that can be changed, so I must remind you that yesterday the financial law agreement was reopened, even by the government itself, when part of the funding was removed from business funds. That decision is, in fact, wise enough, because research and culture will not have to bleed any more. However, this leaves a gap in the overall financial law agreement, and that means that negotiations now need to be negotiated to find the 100 million or so. kr. missing on the financing side of the Finance Act. It is a mess in itself that we are standing here at the second reading of the Finance Act in December without a clear agreement being reached. But if you have to look at the positive in that situation, it is, of course, that it opens a barn gate for the Danish People's Party. The party can now with serenity announce to the government that when the conditions change, you don't have to feel obligated when it comes to adding votes to negative growth in the municipalities either. As a minimum, I expect a clear answer from the Danish People's Party at second reading. Because when you read the reports, you can see that it is only clear that the party will not vote in favour of the proposed amendments. But why, and especially why, now that the conditions have changed? It must be appropriate, both for the sake of posterity, but also for the sake of the many citizens who voted for the Danish People's Party and made them the government's largest support party, for them to take the floor here and explain why they vote as they do to the amendments. It's time. Now is the time to show what you stand for. I therefore recommend to all, but in particular to the members of the Danish People's Party, that they vote in favour of the amendments to L 2 and L 3. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204101720	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204101723	Now I'm not from the Danish People's Party, and it was like against the Danish People's Party that this whole svada came. But I was also called to ask Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. The Social Democrats' rapporteur, like this one, uses as a basis to say that the SR government pursued an enormously responsible policy and that this does not seem to be the case with the financial agreement we have concluded here. May I ask: does the rapporteur find it extremely responsible to pursue a policy which so far exceeded the limits of what deficit one might have and which so built up debts for our country and which meant that there has been real minus growth in the total economy of the municipalities? This meant specifically in 68 of the 98 municipalities that they had fewer educators, approx. 3,000, under the leadership that one had, that they had fewer primary school teachers under the leadership that one had. Is that what Mr. Benny Engelbrecht now stands here and says he was responsible? And is what is now being put forward in the new Finance Act where there is actually more money in 2016, although Mr. Benny Engelbrecht trying to exhibit it as something else so irresponsible? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204101838	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204101839	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Seligman on his excellent report. Jacob Jensen from the slightly smaller party in the government block for him to actually undertake the task of helping the large party, the Danish People's Party, by throwing out a rescue wreath when they themselves do not want to explain why they are in favour of negative growth in the coming years. Having said that, we must also say that when the SR government stepped in and took over after Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Danish economy was in a huge crisis. We had to work our way out of it and we have ensured that, above all, we have come out of an EU recommendation. And I should just like to remind you that we have now had the Minister of Finance in consultation, where the Minister of Finance has acknowledged that nothing was tampered with under the SR government. We were given the Minister for Finance's own word for this in an open consultation where Mr. Jacob Jensen himself participated. I've heard that that expression has been used about photoshopping some things, but it has not yet been possible to get anyone to explain what this is all about. Then we should not just say that this is about the amendments and what the Danish People's Party thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204101950	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204101951	This isn't about a rescue wreath or anything, and I'm pretty sure that mr. René Christensen is very gifted to explain the Danish People's Party's view in a moment. I would just like to ask: when the amendment here, led by the Socialists, strongly supports this re-priority contribution and talks about the fact that it must not give negative growth in the municipalities' economy, why is it that we are now standing and saying that it is extremely irresponsible when, even until a few months ago, we were pursuing a policy which, in fact, implemented negative growth in the municipalities, which led to fewer educators, fewer folk school teachers? This was the policy pursued up to a few months ago, while at the same time building up debts and increasing the deficit beyond what was permissible. Why is it that it was responsible while what we are doing is not?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102037	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102038	Until the parliamentary elections it was the declared policy of the Left that there should be zero growth in Denmark. After all, zero growth is even better than what has been proposed in the coming years in the municipalities, namely real minus growth. That is why we could be tempted to say that even the Left would be able to vote in favour of the amendments that have been tabled. But I am well aware that the governing party will hardly go that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102105	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102111	Thank you for that, President. What a svada that came up here from Parliament's platform. Now you understand, because when you read the headlines and articles in the newspaper today, you can see that some of yesterday's election results were also political. Do you understand where it comes from? Yeah, you certainly do. What have we just witnessed here from Parliament's platform? I think it is a good thing that you go up and defend your amendments... it is part of the political debate... but that the argument gets down to that level, I am a little upset about. There is no minus growth in the budget law, as has rightly been said. It is also part of this debate and it will be voted through at a later date. There's plus growth. What was the election of the previous government? What kind of proposal had been put forward? It was a proposal for a reduction in growth. That's negative growth. When you looked at the books, you saw that it was budgeted with minus growth in 2016. It has now become a plus growth of 0.3 per cent. That's what the facts are. Then it has to be said that in 2017, 2018 and 2019 it is absolutely correct that we do not actually know what growth is going to be in the municipalities. That's right. However, in the 2016 Finance Act there is plus growth in welfare expenditure. There is no doubt about that. With regard to the amendments that have been tabled, I would say that they will vote against the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party votes in favour of the re-priority contribution. Why is the Danish People's Party voting in favour of the re-priority contribution? We do that because we want to use it for something. We also went to the polls, in other words, that we would like to see a compensatory reform for the municipalities. When we can see that 66 municipalities in Denmark meet the requirements for particularly disadvantaged municipalities, then you have a municipal Denmark map that is not in balance. That is why we have made it very clear that we do not want to use the re-prioritisation contribution, among other things. tax relief. We want to earmark this for our close welfare. Why is that? Is there a need to manage the municipalities? Yes, very much. If you have just followed a little in the debate over the last few weeks, you have to say that many mayors, many also Social Democratic mayors, have been out to speak. What did they say? If they're gonna find 1 per cent. of their budget, there are only two places they can find them. It is in the area of primary education, and it is in the area of the elderly. These are the only places the Social Democratic mayors can find 1%. The elderly must suffer, and they must suffer from the children's and young people's areas. It is shocking that this is where the money has to be found in the municipalities. That is why we say that we are happy to accept the responsibility of making a change of priority contribution in order to have a more equal Denmark. And yes, there will be municipalities such as Gentofte, which will experience that they get a little less. Then there will be municipalities like Langeland, who will experience that they get a little more, so that you can have a more equal welfare, so that you can have a dignified care for the elderly, so that you can have a good primary school throughout Denmark. That's what this is about for the Danish People's Party. We are happy to accept that responsibility and we have to say that we were very sceptical about the re-prioritisation contribution. It has certainly not grown in our gardens, but after the debate that has taken place and after the announcements that have come from the mayors, we are in no doubt one more minute: the re-priority contribution is an opportunity to have a more equal Denmark. If you look at the economy of the municipalities and see what money is spent on, you see that there are other options. Why is it that municipalities that go out and say that they can only find money in the area of children and the elderly can also help to support superliga football and everything else? You can find money for that, but you can't get the money for it. It is appalling to witness, and unfortunately we have to assume that responsibility here in the Assembly when we see that there are mayors who publicly announce that this is the way to find the funds. That is why we are voting in favour of the re-prioritisation contribution. It certainly has nothing to do with the fact that the Danish People's Party wants to use the re-priority contribution to tax relief. It is absolutely true that others want it. Among other things, the government wants it, it does not want the Danish People's Party, and we actually sense that a quite large majority also when we look at the amendment that has been tabled does not want the re-priority contribution to be used for any tax cuts. But to make one thing clear: there is a growth in the public sector in 2016. You make finance laws for one year at a time. First you make for 2016, afterwards for 2017, 2018 and 2019. In the Finance Act that we have signed for 2016, there is public growth, both when we look at health, and especially when we look at the close welfare; in the area of the elderly in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102629	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a large number of short remarks and, as you may have noticed, we have turned off the A. It's just to tell you that's how it is so far anyway. The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102646	Thank you. This is not a small amount of money we are talking about here. With a quick conversion, we are talking about 14,000 home helper positions. This corresponds to the number of home helpers in some 20 medium-sized Danish provincial towns. That is what we are talking about when we are talking about 20 billion. kr. in a re-prioritization contribution. It's just that everyone likes to understand that it's not a small amount of money we're talking about here. So when it comes to what the money is going to do, the Danish People's Party needs to be very precise. Because before the elections, one thing was said about what you wanted in this area, and now the Danish People's Party is doing something else. That is why I would like to hear a very precise answer from the Danish People's Party: does that mean, as Mr. René Christensen stands and says from the platform that Dansk Folkeparti withdraws its support for this massive cut in the municipalities, if it is the case that one crown is spent on tax reliefs?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102743	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102745	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the first person from the Social Democratic Party to ask a question says that if this money is to be found, it is the home helpers who have to pay the price. So the rhetoric that comes from the municipalities is that the only place where money can be found in the municipalities is in the area of the elderly. That's shocking. It is simply depressing that it is the only place to find financing in the municipalities. And from the questioner, you now get the support that it is right when the mayors say that if you have to find some money, 1%, you have to look at the warm hands, because that is the only place. I just want to say that I am appalled that a Socialist questioner can stand up and say that it is right, that is to say that it is the only place to find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102826	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102828	Well, it's very well spoken out about that. I was just trying to get some proportion into it. I'm not interfering with how the municipalities prioritise. It is very convenient not to answer the question in the first round, because then you can get away with saying anything in the second round because I can't come back. I ask the question one more time: if it is the case that just 1 kroner is given. for tax relief out of these 7 billion. kr., does the Danish People's Party withdraw support for these massive cuts? Does the Danish People's Party then support this proposal to shave 7 billion? kr. Away? I think you can give a relatively clear answer to yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102908	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102909	Yes, but it's also interesting what's being said. For now the rapporteur says in the second round that she will not interfere with the priorities of the municipalities. We like to do that in the Danish People's Party. We would actually like to interfere in how to implement the policy in Denmark. We would like to interfere in how welfare is managed in the municipalities. And I would also like to answer the question: No, the Danish People's Party will not use municipal crowns to make tax cuts. However, it is interesting that the rapporteur first says that the money can only be found in the area of the elderly, and here in the second place says that Denmark's largest party has no interest in what the municipalities are doing. That's shocking.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102945	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204102950	But we cannot get a clear answer from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, in relation to whether or not we would actually say yes to some tax cuts. Now the report's contribution, which we are discussing today, states that, formally speaking, expenditure ceilings should be adopted for state and local authorities. Can the rapporteur answer whether the Danish People's Party, with what we are voting on today, will add votes to a re-priority contribution in the municipalities? It's quite simply yes or no? And then perhaps we can then get an answer as to whether this re-priority contribution can then be used in the eyes of the Danish People's Party for tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103023	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103024	It was a lot easier if you listened. I can say yes, and indeed I did so in my rapporteur's speech. I said: we support the re-priority contribution, because we actually see it as an emergency guardian. In fact, we see that the members of the Folketing will now also have to assume the responsibility of being a member of parliament when we can see that the municipalities have been out for weeks now saying, as the Social Democrats also say in this Chamber, that the only place to get this money in the municipalities is in the area of the elderly and in the area of children and young people. I just have to say that if that is the policy you have out there, then we have to look at how we get these 66 municipalities lifted also in the welfare and education areas. We are happy to accept that, and that is why the answer is yes!
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103102	Sir. Jonas Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103104	In 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019, you will not be able to improve municipal welfare by making a re-priority contribution not only in 2016 and 2017. That is what the Danish People's Party is voting for today. I would therefore like to hear why we do not support the amendment that we have tabled on the part of the SF, which says precisely that if we are to have a re-priority contribution, it must be put on the state side. We can then distribute it and then at least we will not force the municipalities to make massive cuts in the future for many years to come. Then it may be possible to distribute them to welfare in a financial law, but it may also be that they go for tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103137	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103139	What is very important here is that when you look at a Danish map, you have to say that you can see and it is so positive that there are very many municipalities that have a good infrastructure, a good tax base and that this is where the educational institutions are located. It's going really well. Unfortunately, we also see some municipalities where you do not have the same infrastructure where you do not have the same tax base. It's going less well. That is why we would like to take part in reprioritising within the municipal framework, i.e. make an equalisation where you take something from some municipalities. So yes: There are some municipalities that will find that something is being removed that is being given to others. We would like to use the re-priority contribution for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103215	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103221	Thank you. As I understand it, we do not actually know what that money will be spent on. It sounds almost like the rapporteur is starting such a greater municipal equalisation. So, the Left wants to spend the money on tax cuts, and the Danish People's Party has some desires for what they want and what they don't want. But with all due respect: The Danish People's Party wanted there to be a growth in the public sector of 0.8% when we had an election campaign earlier this year. When you saw the bourgeois block come out with a bill of finance, there were some who had one out of body experience, and others drank champagne. And the wish of the Danish People's Party for a growth rate of 0.8%. I mean, it just stayed a wish. Now the rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party wants this money not to be spent on tax cuts. Is it a wish you can count on, or where is it on the scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103309	At least you can count on that. That is why we have made it very clear both in relation to the Finance Act where we have actually written it in and in relation to the fact that we have submitted a report on the proposal here. There we write very clearly what the Danish People's Party wants to spend this money on, no doubt about it. But we are also saying 'and it should be quite clear 'yes' to the re-prioritisation contribution. We say yes to help take on that responsibility so that we can have a more equal Denmark in these core areas that you have in the municipalities. We say yes to the fact that we want to help manage the municipalities a little bit with the bag of money that comes in from the re-priority contribution, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103344	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103345	That sounds really nice. Now the rapporteur spends a great deal of time pounding on social democratic mayors, but may I just remind you that the chairman of the KL, the Leftman Martin Damm, has said that this is going to have huge consequences and that we are getting a scraped older service out of this proposal. And then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party stands here and tries to beat up some Social Democratic mayors and makes it sound like it's a big equalization project going on. The truth is that the wishes presented by the Danish People's Party here are exactly the same wishes that the Danish People's Party toured with up to the election campaign. And what has been the result of this? Yes, it has been much less growth with the financial law that has just been presented than if we had had a social democratic government. So if the Danish People's Party wants better welfare, including in the municipalities, should not the Danish People's Party support another government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103436	Thank you. President. - I call the rapporteur. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103445	No, because when the previous government was in power, it budgeted minus growth and zero growth. That's how it was. Well, that's how it was, under the previous government. And that's what we've found out. Then it is true that the Left wants something different with this money, and we know that; we have open eyes. The Left wants to make tax cuts for the re-priority contribution, which is why we have made it very clear that we do not want to do so. There we simply disagree with the current government. We want this money to be used to get a more equal Denmark when we look at the Danish map, in relation to the municipalities, equal opportunities throughout Denmark when looking at welfare and social services.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103515	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103517	It's nice to have such a clear answer from Mr. René Christensen, that is, there is no doubt that the Left wants tax relief on the basis of the re-priority contribution. I have no doubt about that either, but I am glad that Mr. René Christensen has realized it. But there is nothing in these draft legislations on compensation reform, as Mr. René Christensen talks about it. It doesn't say anything about what the money should be earmarked for. So there are no guarantees at all. The only guarantee, sir. René Christensen has, of course, opened a barn gate to allow you to feed your own tail at the next budget negotiations, when you have to sit at the same table again, and that the Left gets what they usually do, together with the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, namely tax cuts. Why do you even open that barn gate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103613	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103615	Now I would like to say straight away that the Danish People's Party does not actually object to tax reductions. We think it's okay that people who go to work get something more with home just to make it absolutely clear. We are just saying that the money coming from the municipalities would like to take part in re-priority here, but not in tax cuts. The Danish People's Party will help to re-prioritize them so that we can have a more equal Denmark. I simply cannot understand why you can sit on that side of the House and be proud that during your reign you have built up a Denmark where 66 municipalities live up to a particularly difficult situation where you have got such an unequal Denmark. Although we are a small country, there are some places where things are going really well, and so there are some places where it is actually really difficult. If you look at the level of education and the unemployment figures, it is the case in some municipalities that more than 60% are employed. of the unemployed do not have a qualifying course after the 9th and 10th classes. We're gonna have to deal with that. And if it is the funds that are lacking, then we would like to take part in re-prioritising, and we can use the re-prioritisation contribution to that. As I started by saying, it hasn't grown in our garden. However, after we have heard the municipalities and KL comment on the re-priority contribution, we have simply become convinced that it is necessary to manage the municipalities, also in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103724	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103726	It's totally surreal to hear Mr. René Christensen said in his reply to Mr. Jonas Dahl, this is a matter of guardianship. Well, that, sir. In other words, René Christensen talks about having no confidence in the politicians whom the citizens have chosen to administer, how the municipalities should be managed and budgeted. That sounds like one big time centralization, as Mr. René Christensen and Dansk Folkeparti are in the process. And I cannot understand why we are not making sure in any way that this money cannot be used for tax relief. Well, then, sir. René Christensen just explains why you haven't secured yourself in the Finance Act. You could just get it written that this money cannot be spent on tax reliefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103809	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103810	Just to put it in relief: Well, what we're talking about is 1%. of the economy of the municipalities. We're talking about 1%. a year by the municipalities' economy. It is not the case that everything called the municipalities' economy should now be controlled from Christiansborg. But when you say again and again, and the Socialist rapporteur and the Socialist questioners do so, that the only place that can be rationalised, in the municipalities, is in the area of the elderly and in the area of children and school, then I would say that we simply do not agree with that. The rapporteur himself said that there are plenty of members of the Danish People's Party who also sit in the municipalities, and we know what the economy of the municipalities looks like. We know that there are other areas where we can rationalise and make it better and cheaper. It does not always have to be in the core areas when savings are made. But when that argument comes all the time, it's gonna be an emergency defense. We want a welfare society in Denmark, and we actually want it in 98 municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103902	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103907	Thank you. You may have so many wishes, but here we are in a political reality. The rapporteur himself has said that there has been an economic crisis in the municipalities, and this has meant that the municipalities have looked for all the places where they could do something about what one might say was a little low-hanging fruit. What's left is the core welfare. I would like the rapporteur to clarify this a little. The re-priority contribution means that the municipalities have considerably less money for schools, for the elderly, for everything that is the bourgeois welfare, but then the rapporteur says: Ahr, but the Danish People's Party will ensure that the money is managed, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. How does the Danish People's Party actually intend to do so with such a tight framework that the Danish People's Party votes on now, in relation to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103951	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204103953	Yeah, but again, and it's not just to talk about it, I'm so disappointed that we in Parliament keep saying that these are the two areas on which the money can be found. These are, of course, two major areas, but there are also a great many other major areas. If you look at employment in the municipalities, you can see that things can therefore be made smarter. And when you look at the cultural area in the municipalities, you see that things can be made smarter. When you look at how they drive the whole technical area out in the municipalities, it can also be made smarter. It is not the case that the economy of the municipalities is locked in the area of the elderly and in the area of school. But what we want is to give equal opportunities. It is true that there are municipalities in Denmark also at the exercise we would like to do which will experience that they are getting less money. That's right. If you have to give something to someone, you have to take it from others when you keep it within the framework, and that is what we want. We would have liked there to have been a real municipal compensatory reform. That is not possible, and there we see the possibility of doing something here, and it must of course be in an agreement with KL. So, when you make the plan for the municipalities' economy, KL must of course also be involved in how the money gets back out. But we would like to put up some boxes so that it goes to the close welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104054	Thank you. Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104056	The Danish People's Party wants to help set up some boxes to give priority to the close welfare. That's totally black talk. What we are discussing here is a financial law agreement in which the Danish People's Party has voted for a much lower growth than that on which the Danish People's Party voted; a growth that ends up becoming a minus growth for the municipalities in the years ahead. I would ask the rapporteur to be very precise: what kind of box has the Danish People's Party thought into it? The Danish People's Party is the largest party in blue block. I assume that the Danish People's Party has thought about how to put a block into the bourgeois welfare, so just so in concrete terms: how on earth should the municipalities do so when you first vote for the zero growth and then the minus growth that subsequently occurs in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104141	Thank you. You don't talk directly. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104143	First of all, there is plus growth in 2016 and there is not at this point because we have not yet finished discussing the re-prioritisation contribution • anyone who knows the growth in 2017, 2018 and 2019. We can agree on that. There is plus growth in 2016, i.e. with the Finance Act that has been agreed and that is being voted through. There is plus growth in the municipalities. In terms of how this is to be managed, I would say that in the first financial law we were involved in, we went to the polls that we wanted to help strengthen the area of the elderly. That is why we have managed to get 1,000 million. kr. a year forward in operating crowns to the municipalities, while working on a new concept called "Quality in the municipalities'. And there's actually going to be a bill on how to work with it. So we have succeeded very, very well in relation to our first Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104229	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104233	As one of René Christensen's strawmen, he keeps talking about the fact that we should have proposed cutting back on the area of children and the elderly. But there is no question of that. And Mr. René Christensen says: Well, there are other areas too. Yeah, that's right. There are also primary schools, there are disabled people, there are vulnerable families, there are children with special difficulties, and these are other areas where the municipalities can find some money. That is the consequence here. We are talking about the fact that over the years there will be 7 billion. kr. less in the municipalities. There would simply not be a majority in favour of this if the Danish People's Party did not vote for it, and that is what we are trying to verify here. And you have one last chance: All the members of the Danish People's Party who are here and who have a connection with the local welfare have the chance. So if only one of them dared to vote with us, one would avoid the saving in the municipalities that would hit these areas out there. And if you are trying to stand on the platform of the Folketing today and say that those of us who believe that it will have negative consequences for local welfare are totally wrong and have no political creativity, then you are speaking against better knowledge. Well, then, sir. René Christensen confirm that it is of course also socially vulnerable and disabled who can be affected, in addition to children and the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104346	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104348	If you do nothing, you will recognize that we have a Danish map in which 66 municipalities live up to their particular difficulties. So, well, well over half of the Danish municipalities have big challenges out there, and it's also in these areas. It is true that the municipality is everything. It's from disabled people to asphalt. It is the whole palette that the municipality has: Things to provide to citizens; the service that a municipality has to provide. There we say: we would like to help re-prioritize; we would like to take something from some municipalities which have the high tax base, which has the possibility of growth, which has the possibility of providing a high level of service, and give to the municipalities which are having difficulty in the field of education, in the area of the elderly and in other areas, so that they can provide better services to the citizens who are in the municipality concerned. We dare take that responsibility on board. In the Danish People's Party we do not think it would be fantastic if the Danish Parliament had voted in such a way that the status quo was kept, that 66 municipalities could feel bad and the others could be well, and then we would have been very happy in the Danish Parliament, because then things would go very well. Then it wouldn't go very well, so it would go really bad. We have to help, so we get a straight Denmark where you have equal opportunities. You have to have equal access to education. You do, but you also have to have the same quality, no matter where you live in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104457	Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104500	If you have to try a piece of advice, there's a good old saying that if you stand in a hole and want to get up, you have to stop digging. And Mr. So René Christensen is well on his way down a hole. I am here with the agreements on the Finance Act for 2016. Where is it in these agreements that there is something about compensatory reform? - Sir... René Christensen give a page number, point to a table? Where is it that a compensatory reform has been agreed to benefit the municipalities, Mr. René Christensen is supposedly so caring about? There's no such thing in here. Will you try to give an answer? At the same time, you can answer whether not exactly the 66 municipalities you are standing and making yourself so nervous on behalf of should not also have to hand in the one percent. Shouldn't the 66 be delivering that money, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104546	Thank you, and here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104550	If you now look at the legislative proposal that is here today, when we are really second-reading here, you can see that some amendments have been tabled. That is, in fact, true, and there are also some reports which have been submitted by the Committee on Finance. If you now read what the Danish People's Party has written there, you can see that we have also written it into the Finance Act. We must be aware of this. It's also in the Finance Act. It is very clear what the Danish People's Party wants to use the re-priority contribution for. As I also started by saying in my rapporteur's speech, this proposal has not grown in our seas. But we have to say that the longer the debate has lasted, the more we have realised that this is really needed. For what is happening is that in the municipalities, it is these two areas, education and the elderly that stand for each and every time. And we must say that we have been shaken by this. That is why we want to take on the responsibility of helping to distribute the money to precisely those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104639	Well, thank you for that, and then it's Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104643	Thank you. The rapporteur presents it as if it is just in some social democratic municipalities where you are quite crazy to cut in day care institutions, care for the elderly, primary school, etc. Will the rapporteur confirm that Mr. Martin Damm spoke on behalf of all municipalities when he said in BT on 9 October that if you want to give the close welfare a boost in the municipalities, i.e. childcare, school and the elderly, you cannot start cutting it away. Then there won't be a lift out of it. It was the chairman of the KL who said that, at the same time, he took the opportunity to urge the Danish People's Party to stand firm and say no to the Minister for Finance's re-priority contribution. Martin Damm said that you would keep a close eye on what they, i.e. DF, said before the elections, is also what they are doing after the elections. So will the rapporteur confirm that the participation in this financial law and the re-prioritisation of contributions and expenditure ceilings will make it possible to push the municipalities in general to cut welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104751	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104753	I fully recognise that these are not just Social Democratic mayors. I fully acknowledge what the President of the KL has said. But then you have to remember one thing. It is in fact the case that for 2016 there is also a re-prioritisation contribution. That's what the KL agreed to. What was the price for that? It was that the old one, if you can afford to call it the older one, would be transferred to the block grant. Why would it do that? It was because you could then use it for something other than the older ones, that is, what they were earmarked for. You got the re-priority contribution, and all you had to have as payment in KL was that you could then remove the older billion. It should no longer be earmarked, now it should be available for anything else. It is a pity that the price of a re-priority contribution in 2016 should be that the money that has come to the elderly should at least be allowed to spend on something else, so the elderly would have to pay the price again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104838	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104840	Now I think that the rapporteur is trying to ignore and wipe out the responsibility of the municipalities. After all, there is a clear call from the National Association of Municipalities to the Danish People's Party to stand firm on what was said before the elections. Because in the National Association of Municipalities it is known that it will lead to cuts in welfare and that it will suffer, among other things. the older area, which the Danish People's Party otherwise says they want to defend. But that is also what has been said after the elections. On 18 September, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: If it's up to us, the municipalities just don't have to sit here in the autumn and also prepare austerity exercises for the years 17, 18 and 19, says the party chairman. If the Danish People's Party supports the amendment, the re-priority contribution will be removed. Why wouldn't you want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104925	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204104927	The Danish People's Party does not want to remove the re-priority contribution. That's where we disagree. We think that we should have a more equal Denmark, and that is why we have very clearly towards the government, which in all honesty also wants to spend this money on something else, said that when we are going to make Finance Act 2017 the money that goes into the re-priority contribution must return to the municipalities. So it is quite right, as is also depicted from the Enhedslisten, namely: What is it that the municipalities answer? They answer: If we are to rationalise in the municipalities, we can only find it in the area of the elderly and in the soft values, in children and young people. That is why the Danish People's Party says that it even more shows how important it is also to get some earmarked money from Christiansborg, and then you will get freedom on how to use it in this area. But it is important that they are earmarked.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105015	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105017	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is the rapporteur's view that during the election campaign we went through five months ago, the Danish People's Party told the electorate that it would vote to remove 7 billion. kr. from the budgets of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105043	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105044	There is no doubt about this, and I actually think you can find quotes from the undersigned about the fact that we would like to take part in taking from some municipalities and give to some others. It is not new that we want a more equal Denmark. We find it awkward that in such a small country as ours there are so many municipalities which have difficulty in providing proper schooling, proper care for the elderly and so on. etc. We want to make this a priority, and it is true that there will be some municipalities that will be pissed off and that will find it difficult that they now have to hand in some money to make them feel better at Langeland, to take this as an example. But we are happy to accept that responsibility, and we said so before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105122	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105124	I think the rapporteur himself knows that this is a piece of talk. What we are voting on here is not a compensatory reform. What we are voting on is taking 7 billion. kr. of the municipalities' coffers. Then the rapporteur can have all sorts of wishes for what will happen. But in addition to what Mr. Jesper Petersen said, I'd say there's nothing about that. This requires the Danish People's Party to obtain a majority in favour of it, and let me just read out what the rapporteur said a few weeks ago: "We believe that we can look at a compensatory reform. We have to see if that discussion can lead to anything. Otherwise, there is nothing else to do but vote no. This is the proposal that the rapporteur spoke about otherwise there was nothing else to do but vote 'no', said the rapporteur. Has the rapporteur been given the guarantee that the money will go to the poor municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105209	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105210	Now it is the case that the Finance Act for 2017, 2018 and 2019 has not been agreed yet. There hasn't been a deal. It is the case that you make Finance Act for one year at a time, and now it is the Finance Act for 2016. It's kind of in place. Then we move on, and then we have to make Finance Act for 2017. That is exactly what the rapporteur says. There we are, of course, where the government would like to give tax relief, but where we want something else. It is absolutely true that we are faced with this situation. We are reporting out quite clearly there, and we have said it during the negotiations on the 2016 Finance Act that in 2017 we do not want to use the re-priority contribution to tax relief. We want to use it for something else to get a more equal Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105250	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105255	Thank you. During the rapporteur's speech, one must understand that the re-priority contribution is a welfare gift to the municipalities I conducted a search on Google. I applied for re-priority contributions, mayors and welfare. The top hit had a reference to a Momentum study which shows that 89 out of 98 mayors say that the re-priority contribution leads to a lower or much lower level of service in the municipalities. Does the rapporteur understand that my thoughts in the rapporteur's speech were towards the renowned Iraqi Minister of Information, Mr Komisk Ali?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105338	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105340	It's like when you throw a boomerang, it comes back again. Is it not unbelievable that so many mayors go out and say that if they have to save 1%, 1%. That's where they can save the one percent. It just tells me and it confirms to me that it is true, unfortunately, that we have to make some boxes where we have to earmark some money, send them out to the municipalities and say: they're going to be used for this area. It's disconcerting that you, among other things. In terms of unemployment rates it can be seen that it is so different from municipality to municipality. Although there may be only 100 km between municipalities, it can be seen from the unemployment figures that the level of education varies widely. The municipalities that have these challenges will surely have to help. And yes, then some will pay for it, and we will be happy to accept that responsibility. But I really think the questioner confirms very well how important it is for us to assume that responsibility here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105439	Here you go for the next brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105441	The rapporteur's statements are close to a crazy description of 89 out of 98 mayors from a very wide range of parties. Let me ask a slightly more general question: would it be fair to regard the time of the Danish People's Party as a support party to the present government as a failure if, after 1 year, it can be seen that the result is that we have got worse welfare and that we have received tax cuts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105513	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105515	In any case, it can be said that under the previous government there were fewer and fewer hot hands • if that is what you have to measure. But what I want to say when the rapporteur says that it is awful that you can talk about 89 mayors like that is: well, I am not talking about 89 mayors. Of course, I believe in the rapporteur when he stands up and says that he has been in and google it and can see that 89 mayors say that they can only find 1%. in the whole budget, i.e. that there is 99 per cent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done in this area. I believe it, but I hope that the rapporteur is wrong when he quotes it. But when the rapporteur says so, we simply say by the Danish People's Party: then Parliament will also have to help indicate some directions and say that it is not fair that it should always be the area of the elderly, the education and the children's area that should be at risk in the municipalities. There must also be other places, and there is
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105609	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105614	Thank you. So, we are in a situation where the Danish People's Party has turned 180 degrees from running around in the election campaign saying that there should be more welfare, to now support a saving of 7 billion. kr. It is, of course, a little poor if the rapporteur's best defence of this is an attack on the local politicians who are actually trying to make it stick together. However, if you go on to the rapporteur's premise, where it has suddenly become DF policy to pull 7 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you a few questions: where does it say how that money is going to come back?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105653	Well, what is very important to take note of when we argue for a re-prioritisation contribution is that we have made it very clear that we have done so in the Finance Act negotiations, and we have done so in the Finance Committee, knowing that we have written it in the report that when we get to sit at the table, which I hope we will be doing in 2017 with the current government, and have to negotiate finance law, then we do not want the re-prioritisation contribution to be used for tax cuts. We want the re-priority contribution to be used to ensure that we can have a more equal Denmark. Then it is not a question of taking 7 billion. kr. of the municipal funds over a number of years it must also be said that it is over a number of years. No, that's 7 billion. kr. out and reprioritize them, if we are allowed to do so, until 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105736	Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105738	Well, I'm glad that the Danish People's Party has a lot of wishes. After all, it is not long ago that a Finance Act was signed, where the Liberal Alliance toasted in champagne, because the Porsche had been over DKK 300,000. cheaper. One cannot say that DF got something home from that debate, which is why it may well be that there are some in the municipalities who are a little bit nervous about what DF has been sitting and saying in the Finance Committee, that is, when there is no tangible evidence that they are actually going to be spent on welfare. It's nowhere. Unless the rapporteur can say otherwise, nowhere does it say that there is a guarantee, in other words that there is an agreement that that money should actually be spent on welfare. That's just talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105818	I think that everyone down here is sitting with the proposal that we are discussing today, and it is actually relatively clear. So I would just like to say in relation to the Finance Act because it has now been said several times that the Danish People's Party has not received anything that the Danish People's Party went to the polls that we wanted more security, more officers; we have got that. We went to the polls that we wanted an elderly billion, and we have got that, that is to say 1,000 million. kr. Annually in service to the municipalities • annually in operation! So we've kind of delivered on it. We have also delivered on health. We wanted the patients out of the halls. Money was to be set aside, and 2.4 billion has been added. kr. This is a very good Finance Act for the Danish People's Party. We had three points, and we delivered one hundred percent on them. We appreciate that. That other parties also have something they are happy about, that is, that it has become cheaper for the Danes to buy a car, is fine with us. We have not gone to the polls because we thought it should be more expensive to drive a car. We are quite happy that a model has now been created, after which it has become cheaper for the Danes to buy a safe car.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105907	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204105910	Thank you very much. This summer the government concluded an agreement with the Danish People's Party, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left that when an agreement had been reached between the municipalities and the government on the economy, we would support that agreement. Now the Danish People's Party has made an agreement with the government that, before the negotiations with the municipalities have even started, we should sort out what the government thinks should be the right financial ceiling for the municipalities. That's putting the municipalities in checkmates. That is to put out of effect the whole of municipal self-government. For now the Danish People's Party and the government can dictate what the economic level should be, and then there is an agreement that you blue stamp afterwards when the municipalities are beaten in place. I do not think that was the spirit of the agreement we made this summer. There was the spirit of negotiation between municipalities and states, and then the government could expect a majority in the Folketing to support it afterwards. I think that is actually the most poisonous thing in the election that the Danish People's Party seems to stand by, namely that it simply wants to knock the municipalities into place in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110019	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110021	Now you have to be careful how to come up with something you think. But I'm trying anyway. In fact, I think we are doing KL a little a favour here, because KL cannot succeed in making a proposal for a compensatory reform. You won't be able to do that. When KL is to represent all municipalities, KL will also not be able to make a proposal on how to give something from one municipality to another. There should be no doubt that the Danish People's Party naturally wants the implementation of the re-priority contribution to be an agreement with KL, where KL is aware of the question of how this money is implemented, so that it becomes part of the agreement between KL and the government. Of course, we understand that. But it is true that we are saying in advance that there will be a re-prioritisation contribution, and then, of course, KL will come in and will have to contribute to the re-prioritisation contribution, the proceeds that come in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110110	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110112	I am sorry to have to say this so harshly, but it seems rather arrogant to say that the municipalities do not know what they themselves want, that they cannot negotiate themselves and that they themselves have no opinions, so now the Danish People's Party is helping to say what the municipalities really want. Frankly, the whole idea was that there should be an equal negotiation between the municipalities and the state, and now the basis for that agreement is being removed. Then the Danish People's Party says that you want to help the 66 municipalities that are worst off. But they also get pulled over their heads, that they have to pass through this re-prioritisation contribution unconsciously.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110147	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110148	I think that KL and the municipalities under one have an interest in us getting a more equal Denmark. Actually, I think so. I do not think that any mayor or anyone on the city councils is bad people who want something bad for their neighbouring municipalities. But nothing has happened. What you can see is that more and more municipalities are receiving a lower tax base and that few municipalities are growing. One of the options for changing that picture is the re-priority contribution, and of course we will do so in cooperation with KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110225	Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110232	It has not even been six months since the elections, but I think we are witnessing an incredible change. Sir. René Christensen sounds like a well-schooled official from the Ministry of Finance. It is no longer the Danish People's Party, it is Djøf's People's Party that we are talking about here. It is a service for KL, it is a question of how to make it smarter in the municipalities, and it is a re-priority contribution where you take money from the municipalities. But at Dansk Folkeparti it suddenly becomes an expression that the municipalities actually get It is incredibly nice. But the transformation we see does not cover the fact that the truth, sir. René Christensen, is that when you vote for this, the Danish People's Party is directly responsible for the deterioration of the elderly, of children, of people at risk and of people with disabilities. And no, it is not a question, it is a statement. But I would like to hear if I have to ask you a question: why the transformation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110320	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110324	Actually, it's not a transformation. We think, when we look out on the Danish map, that over 50%. of the Danish municipalities, it's really hard on many of these parameters. We take the responsibility that sometimes also has to be taken, and it is not always easy. It may be difficult to go out and say that we want a more equal Denmark. But we just have to recognise that we have to look at the municipalities that have the possibilities, those that have the infrastructure, where we have had the centralisation of education, where companies lie, because we have the universities. They are the ones who have the good tax base. They must give a little bit to some of the municipalities that are a little more difficult, so that they can also lift themselves up, especially on the education side, but also in relation to providing proper and close welfare. And we are happy to accept that responsibility. There we say that, with regard to the re-prioritisation contribution, we can see particularly in relation to the rhetoric that has been going on here in the Parliamentary Chamber that it is, of course, paradoxical that almost everyone who stands up says that if the municipalities have to find 1%, they can only find it in the area of the elderly and in the area of children and young people. It is paradoxical that it is only just in the two areas that one can find 1%.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110432	Mrs. Stine Brix, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110437	Now we hear again that the Danish People's Party or Djøf's People's Party, what we should call them, is so preoccupied with the educations. In addition to what we are talking about here, however, there is a direct saving in all education in the Finance Act. The violins are completely fake here. It doesn't make any sense, sir. René Christensen says, and it just cannot cover up the fact that all good intentions, despite what we are voting on here, are only one thing, namely that you remove money from welfare in the municipalities when the Danish People's Party presses the green button in a moment. It's sad, but it's true.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110513	President. - I call the rapporteur. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110517	Although an amendment has been tabled and I have actually read the amendment, one could also do oneself the service of reading what other parties are writing. We write very, very clearly that this money should go back to the municipalities. Then it is true that there will be a change of priority, but it does not go from the municipalities under one. It is true that some municipalities will find that they are getting less money, and then some municipalities will find that they are getting more money. And then there are some municipalities that will find that some of this money they get back, they can't use for anything, they'll be earmarked. We dare to assume that responsibility in the Danish People's Party, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110553	Then it's mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110556	Thank you. Well, this is a weird experience. Now the previous questioner said it was Djøf's People's Party, and I have seen a theatre performance called Djøf with lies. And I just have to say, transforming a 7 billion cut. kr. and the dismissal of 10,700 people in our welfare system to the greatest gift to the public sector, to our municipalities, and that the mayors should actually sit and cheer themselves up about this... that's what the rapporteur says... is actually more crazy than this "Djøf" with a lie-theater performance. May I quote the rapporteur himself. 1⁄2 months ago, he said the following about exactly this... It is a blank cheque in which the municipalities have to find money that is put on the table in front of the finance minister. And it's just too dangerous... So I would like to ask: what specific points have been made in the agreement made by the rapporteur on behalf of his party to stem what he himself thought was too dangerous a half-month ago? What specific points are contained in the agreement which has tied the government to the fact that the money is not
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110708	It is very clear that the Danish People's Party does not state very clearly that we want to spend it on something else. We want to return them to the municipalities. I would also like to say that if the rapporteur now says that this is the most horrible thing you can do, then he also recognises that you just have to stick to the fact that 66 municipalities out of 98 are having a hard time. So there are a lot of people who are having a hard time out there and who are unable to deliver their close welfare. But we just have to stick to that, because we in the Folketing should not touch the economy of the municipalities, no, it is certainly too dangerous, because then there are some mayors who get angry. Sometimes you also have to take responsibility and say that when you look at the Danish map, you can see that too many municipalities are having a difficult time, and when you look at the fact that such a large proportion of the unemployed, especially in the municipalities, do not have a competence-giving education, you have to act on it. So now the municipalities have had a very long time to do so, and they have not succeeded. Well, then we'll have to use one per cent. 1%
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110815	Thank you. Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110818	I think that we simply have to make this clear by the rapporteur here, so we are quite clear that he himself has understood what is actually being said yes to. Now he says it says in the agreement that DF wants it. And I have then read this agreement, and it is true that it says: "The negotiators take note of the fact that the Danish People's Party is making a contribution to the report...·. I've actually made a lot of appointments in my time at the Castle, and I just want to ask: is this a deal? Because if that is the case, one might wonder why the Prime Minister of the country soon after you reached an agreement stood in the Chamber and said that the money from the re-priority contribution could be used for tax cuts. And then you didn't make an appointment. I know that DF has a policy that you won't do it, but you made a deal where you make it possible. You're making it possible. Isn't that right? You have to be perfectly honest here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110913	Thank you, thank you. And you don't use direct charges. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204110917	Thank you. Now it is the case that if it were to be used for tax cuts, it should be the Social Democracy or other parties that should help the government get 90 mandates behind it. We have made it very clear now that it will not be our vote to do so. So it's someone else who has to help the government with that. But when I look over the Parliamentary Chamber, I actually sense that there is a welfare majority in the Parliamentary Chamber at the moment, although that does not sound like it. Because today we can hear that if you are going to find money, you can only cut back on the close welfare. But if you get out of the Assembly Hall and go and talk to each other, I sense a welfare majority. We would like to take advantage of that. We would like others to go in and say: well, we think it might be interesting to work on that agenda. Otherwise, there must be some other parties that go in and help the government spend this money on tax cuts. And it won't be the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111001	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111010	Thank you. When you hear the rapporteur, it's like you're seeing a scene from a George Orwell novel. Because the way you use the language is quite impressive in itself. You know, they say you're a part of this, and you're a supporter of this re-priority contribution, because it helps create a more equal Denmark. It is said that the municipalities are not able to prioritize the funds themselves because they warn the parliamentary politicians that there will be savings in core welfare. And then it is justified by the fact that you are now resorting to emergency guardians to save the municipalities from their own savings. Well, frankly, I have to say that the rapporteur is a little sloppy. What I would like to ask is this: when we have found that there is no point in the report's contribution, that the Danish People's Party insists on making a compensatory reform, and now that we have found that there is no agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party that this revenue of 7 billion is due. kr. How will the Danish People's Party guarantee that this money will not be used for tax relief and that it will not contribute to large savings in the municipalities, which will then benefit the most wealthy in this society?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111118	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111121	I have to say, and it is simply not to ignore the fact that it is amazing that you can continue to stand up and say that if the municipalities have to find 1%, it will, of course, cost close welfare, and it will of course be the home helper who has to be fired. You're gonna have to find 1 per cent that's 99 per cent. Get back! I do not know how many Members have now stood up and said that this is only where the municipalities can save. In fact, I get a little bit scared that on this side of the House you're so blue-eyed that you look at this and say: it's only the older area and the school area you can save on if you have to find a saving of 1%. out of 100 per cent. It is a bit shocking, therefore, that I am even more pleased that we have a new government which makes a re-priority contribution, even if it wants to use it for something wrong. I hope, then, that the welfare majority here in the Parliamentary Chamber will, after all, see that if you can get a more equal Denmark, where 66 municipalities should not be particularly disadvantaged, that is where that figure comes down, then it will be a better Denmark. I hope there will be a majority in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111224	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111227	I would like to start by pointing out to the rapporteur that the welfare majority he is talking about does not exist. And I would also venture to claim that it has not existed since 18 June at any time. For the reality is that Dansk Folkeparti has just contributed to a financial law agreement, where among other things. with the re-priority contribution made deep, deep depression in nuclear welfare in sharp contradiction to what was actually said during the election campaign, in return for making expensive cars cheaper and saving up for tax cuts. So I would just like to hear something from the rapporteur at the end of the day, because he keeps blaming the municipalities for not being able to cut anywhere else. Could it be that very many municipalities have been through many years of crisis and also with great demands from among others. The Danish Parliament and has reached this stage, among other things. Leftman Martin Damm warned that they can no longer save anywhere but on nuclear welfare? Will the rapporteur not respond to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111319	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111321	I'd like to deal with that. I understand that you are now saying to the municipalities from a single red block: that is right; there is no other place to save; go on with your superliga football; go on with all your things that you are subsiding; it is blue-stamped now; it is only the near welfare that can be cut in, and you must go out and do that. There, we in the Danish People's Party simply invite our members of the municipal councils to say no to it. We are actually urging them to think once and say: what is it really for which a municipality is set in the world? What kind of service should a municipality provide? We are actually calling on our people to look at what sort of things a municipality has to do, what kind of framework a municipality has to set. This is how we work politically. I understand that there are some who work in a different way, and that is fair enough. We're not from the same party either, and that's the way it is. But with us we have a completely different approach to what the money is for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111408	Thank you. And then it is the last two who will have access to brief comments. The next is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111420	Thank you. The Danish People's Party's financial rapporteur tells us here today that the Danish People's Party has changed its attitude to the re-priority contribution and savings in municipal welfare. And yes, I just have to promise you that you have, in terms of what you meant during the election campaign. What I would like to ask is whether the Danish People's Party's Financial Rapporteur is aware of the exchange of letters this autumn between the City Council of Assens Municipality and KL, the National Association of Municipalities. For Dansk Folkeparti i Assens, the Danish People's Party was a co-signator of the letter sent on 20 October. And in this you write about this 7 billion. kr., which we have now heard must be taken up by the municipal funds and placed in the treasury of the finance minister. It says in that letter that it is 56 1⁄2 million. kr. in the four-year budgetary period, which everything else equal will mean substantial savings in municipal welfare. A majority of Assen City Council signed this on October 20th. My question is: do you know about that exchange of letters, and when has the position changed in the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111537	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111540	I do not know about the exchange of letters, but I do, of course, believe it when the rapporteur says so. Then the rapporteur also asks whether the Danish People's Party has changed its position in this way. No, we haven't. We actually went to the polls on the fact that the municipal Denmark card was not in order. It is not okay that so few municipalities have a good tax base and a high level of service, while so many, i.e. the majority of the Danish municipalities, are incredibly difficult in terms of welfare. So we haven't actually changed our mind. The re-priority contribution did not exist at the time, and when we first heard about it, we were also very sceptical. But we have to say that, in the context of the debate that has taken place, we are now standing here today, we have changed our position. So that is absolutely right. In fact, we see that the re-priority contribution can be an opportunity to have a more equal Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111626	Thank you. Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111629	There's a lot of things I want to say. Because we see that reality surpasses what one would see in a theatre performance, what several others have been talking about. I have to ask you about this specific exchange of letters. I am also very surprised that the Danish People's Party's financial rapporteur does not know about it, because it was written directly back to among others. Danish People's Party members of the City Council and members of the Folketing. After all, Chairman of the National Association of Municipalities, Martin Damm, wrote that they fully agree that the re-priority contribution will lead to significant savings in municipal welfare, etc. But there was also a clear call for the party groups at Christiansborg to express that there are challenges to the government's bill. And that is what we are talking about today. Has the financial rapporteur for the Danish People's Party really not heard about the challenges facing Assens City Council and the rest of the country's municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111734	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111737	After all, it is a fact that if you make a change of priority contribution of 1%. a year over a 3-year period and takes it out of the municipalities' economy, then it will affect the municipal service. There is no doubt that this will be the case. But what's frustrating is when we hear what kind of service parameters you want to screw on. That's where it's gonna be dangerous. It is said that it is in the area of the elderly and in the area of children and young people. That is where you will find the one percent; that is where the challenge lies. Then we say this money should not be ripped out of the municipal economy. They have to look back together, but they're not going back one to one. There will be some who are going to give and not get anything back while others are going to get more back. And that's what we want. We want a more equal Denmark so that it will be easier to ensure good welfare throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111831	Thank you. Then that's the last question I've ever asked, and that's sir. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111839	I'd like to ask Mr. René Christensen about something. First year, you take 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipal coffers and transfer them to the state treasury, and then Mr. René Christensen, that Dansk Folkeparti can make sure that they return to the municipal coffers again. But then the expenditure ceiling ends up exactly as it already was, and then one might ask: why regulate the expenditure ceiling? The state can easily distribute the money to the municipalities in a different way without regulating the expenditure ceiling, because it can be said that then the expenditure ceiling will be the same. When you lower the expenditure ceiling, you take money out of the municipal funds. I'd like to ask Mr. René Christensen about something. When you claim that you want to distribute it in a different way and the municipalities must save 1% overall, it must also mean that if one half is to be held harmless or even more money, then the other half must save 2% overall in the first year. rising to 4%. the second year and then 6% when you reach the third year. Are there any municipalities where the Danish People's Party sits in the municipal council, where savings can be found to that extent without affecting children and the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111947	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204111950	There is no doubt that there are opportunities out there. I am not saying that you swim in cream in the municipalities and that there is plenty to take. It's not like that. But what is depressing is that, and that is also what is going on in the debate we have here, and I think it is a little too bad that if there is to be 1%, you just mention the two areas and talk about that that is where the money is to be found. It is the case that in the municipalities there are many other ways of finding that money. Sometimes you can actually make some adjustments to make a revenue, so make things smarter by making an investment and then get a smaller operating cost or other. There are opportunities in the municipalities. Then it is true that we are saying: yes, we want to re-prioritize, that is to say, take from some municipalities and give to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112035	There are a great many members of the Danish People's Party who also sit in a municipal council, and there are a great many municipalities where you have already been out cutting 1%. or 2%. or 3%. There I would like to hear: could you mention some municipal councils where the Danish People's Party has made suggestions on how to cut 1, 2, 3% without hitting children and the elderly? I have not seen that budget yet, but there must be a handful of municipalities where the Danish People's Party has made such proposals. I just want to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112101	I'm not gonna be able to say that. I don't know all the municipalities' budgets. But now I am lucky enough to have a double mandate myself and to sit in a municipality, in fact a provincial municipality, which has also had a difficult time. And I would just like to say: there are also opportunities to prioritise what you want. That is how it is to be a politician: you have to give priority, and sometimes you have to choose something from, because you want to choose something else. I think the municipalities are very similar. There are just some municipalities that have an economy and a tax base which are much more problematic than that of other municipalities. And there is what we are saying that a re-priority contribution can therefore help to fulfil that task, so that in a few years' time we will not be standing here talking about the fact that it is now not 66 municipalities, but perhaps 75 municipalities that meet the requirements of being particularly disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112143	Thank you. And then I give the floor to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative, to make a brief comment, because the alternative has not actually had access to short remarks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112151	Thank you for that, I am pleased to have the floor here. Because there is something I simply still do not understand and it is possible that it is due to my poor understanding. However, the rapporteur continues to say that the rapporteur would very much like to give priority to disadvantaged municipalities, and I fully understand that. We would very much like that in the alternative. But is it not true that this re-priority contribution is also being taken from the 66 disadvantaged municipalities? And what is the guarantee given to the Danish People's Party in relation to the fact that you can then give priority to these 66 disadvantaged municipalities afterwards? I would like the rapporteur to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112235	I can answer very clearly: the re-priority contribution applies to all 98 municipalities. There should be no doubt about that. It does. And that means, of course, that the 66 municipalities also have to go out and find the one percent of their entire budget. What we would like to do, of course, in cooperation with KL and in the context of the agreement to be made, is to take part in looking at some of the places where we can see that there is an unreasonable difference, among other things. in relation to the level of education among the unemployed. And it is of course a question of how the primary school has delivered during the 9 or 10 years that the young people have attended primary school. That is where we want to be a priority, and of course we want to do so in cooperation with the KL. But we'd like to set up the boxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112312	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112316	Thank you for your answer. But now it is the case that the municipal agreement that is being made in the future is being made with the government. It has helped to agree in advance, and by DF making that agreement with the government, you are helping to agree to that agreement. However, Dansk Folkeparti is not in the municipality agreement, and in my optics Dansk Folkeparti has helped to give a blank cheque to the government in relation to the municipal agreements to be made. So there is no guarantee that this money will go back to the municipalities, including the 66 disadvantaged municipalities, which the rapporteur is particularly concerned about, as I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112355	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112357	Now it is the case that we fully recognise the contractual system that exists. In other words, when KL comes and makes an agreement and has their mandates in the back in the form of 98 municipalities, they must of course be able to make an agreement with the government in office at any time. Now you get this new tool, which we are actually positive about: the re-prioritisation contribution. We must, of course, have this in mind, in relation to what it is, there can be a majority in favour of using it. And there is no doubt that we are not going to be involved in this being tampered with by the municipal economy. It needs to be used in the municipal economy. It is also very important for us that it is earmarked by the Folketing. Unfortunately we have all too often seen that when you have sent money from the Danish Parliament, you have stood in here and toasted it and been happy about it. Then the money has come out into the municipalities, where they have entered one end, and then they have cut the other end so that there has not really been a boost in those areas. And that is where we dare take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112443	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204112458	Thank you. I can almost sense that this is a debate in which it is suggested that it takes place between the Red Camp on the one hand and the Danish People's Party on the other. So I'm sorry if I get involved in that discussion despite my vote. I hope it lasts all the way through. But I think that the question here is, of course, quite important. And, of course, the amendments that have been tabled on the reform of the financial regulation are also so important that they call for a few comments on my part and on the part of the Left. As we see it, politics is about having the courage to prioritise, including re-prioritising. And that is what we are doing with the financial bill here, which also adds up to the re-priority contribution, which has been known by the state for a number of years, but which is now also being rolled out in regions and municipalities. We think it is important that the Folketing can set a direction for what we want to do with our country and that we can say where it is that we can see that further priority needs to be given and what are some areas on which we think, for example, some tax or tax cuts should be made. We will continue to do so. We note, of course, the views that exist on this issue. But it is not a secret that we see this as part of a process in which we should not just stand and discuss how to distribute the social cake, but simply make the social cake a little bigger. Everything else is going to be a little more fun to be in here when you can be a part of the saying: we have some more money in the future that we can make. We have created better conditions for there to be some jobs that earn some money in Denmark, which ultimately or rather, in the first place, will benefit the citizen-centred service. Because there's no citizen-friendly service unless some money is made in this country. And the money will only be earned if it pays to do so. That is how the simple context is, and that is why we think it is common sense to look at it. We have historically large budgets in these years. Well, there is also great demand, but we have historically large budgets. We'll have that next year too. In fact, we have a larger budget for the public sector. And for the municipalities, it is in the region of 238 billion. kr. you can create service for. That does not mean that I am not buying the premise that some are trying to run that because you had to have 1 billion. kr. more or 1⁄2 billion. kr. less, so that's equal to 1 billion. kr. better or 1⁄2 billion. kr. poorer welfare. It is clear, then, that there must be a foundation under what we do, also in terms of resources. But I think it is essential to stress that it is, of course, about what you get out of the money. It is therefore about how to convert the funds, preferably into warm hands and as little as possible into bureaucracy and administration. That's what counts. That is what matters to people who are standing out there and need home help, for the school, for the primary school teacher, or for day offers where teachers are needed. We share the view that this is needed. But I also think it is essential that we then have the opportunity to give priority so that there is more money in that direction. Therefore, it can be said that when it is now discussed very violently, Mr. René Christensen was just wondering if the money from the re-priority contribution could go to tax cuts, so it's just our very quiet and calm view that the fact that people get some more money for themselves is also welfare. The fact that you get the opportunity to buy a perhaps a little safer car for yourself and your family is also welfare. But basically, it is a question of ensuring a framework for the future that some people will also contribute to the labour market and can contribute to the labour market and that there are, moreover, some jobs to be found in the labour market so that we can earn some money for our common welfare society. That's why I'm gonna be very much in line with that, sir. René Christensen mentioned earlier, also maintaining that if you have to find 1%. In a budget, no one says or forces anyone in the municipalities to be exactly in one or two selected areas. I would also like to stress that I do not want to interfere with Christiansborg. I think it is a good thing that, when you are locally close to the citizen, you should also be close to the local decisions that need to be taken. However, I simply note that priority is given, for example, to areas which can at least be discussed as core welfare areas. Some may want to discuss this, but in the cultural and leisure field, for example, from 2014 to 2015 not only kept it quiet, but increased budgets by over 700 million. kr. under one. That, of course, is good initiatives. It is certainly also in several places, and it may be nice where that money comes out to work. But I merely note that this is what has been done, and then nobody should come to me and say that 100%. of the municipal budgets go exclusively to what one might call, in a slightly more narrow sense, core welfare areas, which at least in my optics is about day-to-day offers, the school area and the elderly area. I therefore believe that this is a message which it is certainly important to keep in mind. In addition, I would also like to say that when you look beyond the municipalities, you see, of course, even when you clean up these socio-economic factors, as you call it in a fine word, a very big difference in how they translate the money into concrete results. And everything else has to be equal when it is different municipalities. Well, let's take this inventory, which I think KL has done, about the primary school area, where you've looked across the municipalities at what they're using. This has been looked at, and it turns out that the ten municipalities with the highest costs spend an average of about DKr 28,000. more per students than the ten municipalities that spend the least money. In other words, whatever the framework conditions of the municipalities, it is. We can also take the day-off area. According to KL, this has also been looked at, and in the ten municipalities with the highest costs you spend an average of DKK 30,000. more per child than in the ten municipalities where you spend the least money. Or we can take something like the road maintenance area. An analysis has been carried out showing that somewhere between 300 million can be saved. kr. and 400 million kr., if the municipalities with the highest unit costs were as effective as the municipalities with the same structural conditions, i.e. if they were only better at working together on procurement and procurement etc. It is just to give some examples of what has been pointed out. I am not here saying that everything must be the same, that everything must be completely identical. Because it is also, of course, a matter of giving local priority. However, nobody should come and say that there is no possibility of prioritising and learning from one another, becoming more skilled, using new technologies, new methods, gaining new experiences, good and bad. That is what this is all about, even when you give local priority and work on things. So that is our approach to it, and that is, of course, why we are fully behind the financial law agreement that has been made and, of course, cannot support the amendments that have been tabled here. But I don't think it's gonna come as the big surprise either. Finally, I would just like to say in conclusion to the discussion about whether, with the financial bill that is now in place, more or less money will come to the municipalities in 2016, quite quietly say that more money will come to the municipalities in 2016, because we are already sending the money, 1.9 billion. kr. of the re-prioritization contribution of 2.4 billion. kr., back. In addition, there will then be an extra billion in the form of the older billion, which we then call a dignified billion, because it will have to go to raise the level of service in the area of older people on top of that. So that is the conclusion, and that is why, of course, we are very pleased with the financial agreement made for 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113300	There are a few brief comments, and the first one to speak is Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113311	It is true that we see a small growth in 2016 if otherwise the budgets last • We have seen the other years that the municipalities have underspended, so we have ended up with a minus budget. But let's just leave it alone. This is far from what the Danish People's Party promised before the elections. I think we remember what they were voting on, and that was not 0.3 per cent, I think we can agree on that. It is just one of the things that has undergone an incredible transformation in the Danish People's Party. Before the elections it was also very clear that no money was to be taken from the municipalities, and now a new story has come up. It is something about this being mixed up with a compensatory reform, where money can be taken from some municipalities if some of the money goes back to some other municipalities. I think that is exciting, because I think that there are also some municipalities that could use something more. I would just like to hear something from the rapporteur, because in that case it is the rapporteur's party that must lead such a compensatory reform: is this something that the rapporteur's party is prepared to do, that is to say, a compensatory reform that takes money out of the pockets of municipalities, for example? Hørsholm, Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk and other more wealthy municipalities to transfer them to some of the municipalities that have smaller municipalities? Is this something we want to see the Danish People's Party take the lead?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113419	I have been involved in a few compensatory reforms and I do not think we have seen the last compensatory reform yet. The rapporteur must now apologise if I do not have all the details in place. But I certainly remember that under the previous government there was a so-called financing committee which worked almost continuously on these issues. And there is my impression, then, that this is something to be returned to when you can say, find it opportune and have an appropriately provided data base, or whatever you might call it, analysis basis. This is, of course, something that cannot be cemented, because the economy is developing and the economy is developing in some places more favourable than elsewhere. And there, of course, we share the view that it must be possible for it to develop differently. But there must also be the possibility of offering a reasonable service in all parts of the country. That is also why I take note of the very, very large differences that exist, from one place to another, in what you get out of the money. I am not saying that it should be completely the same, but I note only that there are major differences. And of course it is something about how to learn from each other, how to have working methods, how to have priority over the years and many other things. However, in relation to a compensatory reform, it is my impression that this is not the last compensatory reform we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113531	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113536	That's not what I asked. I asked whether the Left wants a compensatory reform which takes money from some of the rich municipalities north of Copenhagen. This will mean that the municipalities, if they are to maintain the current level of service, will have to raise taxes. Is that something the Left wants to support? For that is what we hear from the Danish People's Party, the largest party in the blue block, that is to say that this is how the priority contribution is to be used: Municipalities like Hørsholm, which Lyngby-Taarbæk has to pay, and then the money has to go to some other municipalities. It's a little interesting to find out if this wish that the Danish People's Party has ever had on earth. Or is it just an excuse to vote for cuts in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113614	Just to make this clear, I would like to say that there will be no cuts in the municipalities in 2016. But that is not what the rapporteur is referring to here. In relation to whether or not we want a compensatory reform, I have referred to the fact that there will probably be continuous work under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, assessing the economic conditions of the municipalities, because they are different. That is why I am simply saying that I refuse to believe that we have seen the last compensatory reform. I don't think we have. However, I think it is much, much more interesting to discuss how we can also raise the level, in other words get more revenue for our country, rather than just discussing a zero-sum game and move funds from one place to another. It is much more interesting to discuss the conditions for us to actually get some money and growth in all parts of our country, and that is also what we in the government are working hard on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113659	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113706	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Jacob Jensen is based on the financial agreement concluded. For what the Danish People's Party has been trying to unravel for an hour now is what it really means. That is why I should like to ask Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen: When it says in the Finance Act that the parties to the agreement note that the Danish People's Party makes a report contribution during the committee procedure, does this mean that the Danish People's Party has received a guarantee that money from the re-priority contribution cannot go to tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113751	After all, I cannot stand by and guarantee what negotiations that may take place at a later stage will lead to. Of course, we take note of the points of view. That is clear, and every responsible government does. We take note of what Mr. René Christensen and thus also the Danish People's Party have said on that issue. I have also said elsewhere that it can be difficult to separate hot and cold water once it has run together. In other words, funding comes from re-prioritisation contributions and from other sources when we hope to present a draft tax reform shortly here. I shall leave it unsaid, if we then choose to say that exactly the funds that come from the re-priority contribution, we put in a special pool and color them blue, or whatever it is, so that we can recognise them from each other, and then we use them for welfare and service improvements or whatever it should be. I can't tell you where the money that comes in one place runs out. I can just say what is the view of the government and the Left that welfare is also about creating better conditions for making money in this country and that people also want to keep a little more for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113849	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113852	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Jacob Jensen confirms that the Danish People's Party, through the comments they have made in connection with the legislative proposals and amendments that we are dealing with now, i.e. L 2 and L 3, has not been given any kind of guarantee that they cannot be used for tax cuts, for example. Then I'd just like to ask Mr. Knox again. Jacob Jensen to confirm what we have also been told by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, namely that part of this money, i.e. resources from the re-priority contribution, could be used by the Left for exactly tax cuts. I just want confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204113933	Well, I can't stand by and guarantee anything. I stand here representing a minority. I stand and represent the Left with the modest mandates we have. We would like some more, and it might come one day too, but that is the number that I stand and represent. I cannot represent more than what I represent, and that is not a majority. And when I do not have a majority in my back, I cannot, for good reasons, stand and say what is going to happen in some negotiations, because there must be a majority if an agreement is to be reached. I think so, sir. Benny Engelbrecht is all for it. It's just that it's very funny that sir. Benny Engelbrecht and the Social Democrats insist that the money from, for example, the re-priority contribution should not go to tax cuts. Does that mean, on the contrary, that in the Socialists' optics the taxes that are exactly today are one hundred per cent perfect? Because one has to understand that tax cuts are evil, and then one can conclude that tax increases in the eyes of the Socialists must be of the good. Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114024	Sir. Jeppe Bruus. Sir. Jeppe Bruus?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114028	Yeah, I'm sorry. All this talk sounds very technical. In fact, it is the case in the municipalities that next year you will have to save 2.4 billion. kr. kr. You have to fire some people if you're gonna make things fit. That is the reality. You can't know exactly how much of the 1.9 billion you get. kr. There's going back. In the years to come, what the government wants is for even less money to be moved back to the municipalities. So this is going to lead to savings in close welfare. Then I understand from the Danish People's Party that the argument is that there are lots of municipalities spending money on superliga football, and then they can just prioritize some of the money differently. I wonder how many of the municipalities today have to save on next year's budget, which spends crowns at the local superliga football club. I do not know whether the rapporteur of the Left has any knowledge of this. I just think that's a strange argument. The reality is that you spend less money because you have to make savings and then you get a little back. My question is: what are the 500 million? kr., which falls into the state, is spent on?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114142	I can certainly note that Slagelse municipality does not spend enough on superliga football. It was last year that it should have been done if FC West Zealand had not been moved down. And now they've gone bankrupt, too, but of course that's a completely different talk. I don't know how many other people could spend money on that. But I take note of it and, as such, I agree with it, as Mr. René Christensen said that, of course, funds are given priority for other than what I define as core welfare at least. That's the way it's gonna be. But I have only noted things in the field of culture and leisure. I have nothing against it, but I merely note that more than 700 million have been chosen. kr. more from 2014 to 2015. So this is because it's notoriously meant that you have to fire people and that you even have to fire them in hot hands from the day-care area, from the school area, from the elderly area I can't see hanging together. Before I mentioned an example from KL's own analysis that there are opportunities to collect 300-400 million. kr. in the road area, if you bought in more efficiently and sent more in tenders. Another example you've looked at is the job centres. There are also some opportunities to learn from each other, one must understand, and there is then, according to the analysis, a total potential of just over 1⁄2 billion. kr. It's not something that's gonna mean layoffs. It will just mean that you got better results for the same money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114254	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114257	In Hvidovre, you will save 75 million next year. kr., and you spend 48 million. kr. on culture. After all, it's a little hard to make that equation completely stick together. But now we are talking about the money, which is a real saving and so does not go back to the municipalities. That's 500 million. kr. next year, and it is even more money in the years that follows. I understand from the Danish People's Party that not a penny of that money should be spent on tax cuts. Is that a guarantee that the Left is also ready to give?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114325	It's funny to remind you of that question, sir. Benny Engelbrecht asked a few minutes ago. That is also why Mr. Jeppe Bruus gets the same answer. I represent the Left, and I therefore represent the view of the Left with our small number of seats. We would like to make a tax reform in which, as a priority, we reduce the tax on labour income and, like the tax on small incomes, so that working pays better. I think that's a point of view, sir. Jeppe Bruus knows. Then it's just that I'm saying I can have a hard time separating hot and cold water when it's mixed together. In other words, when there are sources of funding from re-prioritisation contributions, from phase 1 of the job reform and from other sources of funding, I cannot say that the krona that just came from here goes over there. This is, of course, a global financing solution that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114408	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114411	I'd like to take a slightly different angle on that. For the Left, too, it is usually a party that celebrates decentralisation and local self-government, and I cannot get that rhymed with the fact that the Left is now constructing a model in which, for the first time in Denmark's political history, the municipalities are first bound to a certain budget and re-priority contribution for many years to come and then in the negotiations with the municipalities every year, a majority in parliament has to lock up the municipalities. That was not the spirit of the agreement we made this summer. It was that the municipalities and the state had to negotiate on equal terms, and then the government could count on a majority of the people behind it. Now we want to bind the municipalities in advance to a certain budget ceiling that has not been negotiated. I do not think that is to respect municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114500	In any case, it can be said that the agreement that will be concluded every year and will be made again in the coming years is, of course, where you have municipal autonomy, in the sense that the KL represents the 98 municipalities on the one hand and on the other hand the Finance Minister sits then representing the government in office at all times. That is also what happened this summer, and that is also what is likely to happen next year and the years after. With regard to what happens, moreover, from various initiatives under the auspices of the Parliament, there are a lot of things going on almost every day, which also somewhere has an impact on the economy and thus the opportunities in the municipalities. We can think about education, it can be in the area of the elderly, it can be in the area of health, it can be in many areas, and of course it can also be in the budget law, which of course covers everything somewhere as a budget. These are the things we do in here and thus set the framework for what will happen in our lovely little country. Also included in the municipalities, which are one of the most important players at some point, when talking about citizen-friendly services and which have a budget of around 238 billion. kr. So it is inevitable that the things we do and decide in the Folketing will also have an impact on the economy of the municipalities between the municipal agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114610	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114612	So, hand in hand, would the rapporteur of the Left not agree with me that there is a slight difference between adopting some small package in one area or another and laying down the basic framework for municipalities, budgetary ceilings and the possibility of providing public services at all by forcing a re-priority contribution down on them in advance? It's a new construction. We've never done that before. We have respected the municipalities so much that they had a fair opportunity to negotiate their economy instead of being forced into a certain framework in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114654	I am not sure I agree with the radical rapporteur on that. After all, we have a budget law, and the budget law also states that the expenditure ceilings under which the economy of the municipalities is to operate must be adopted each year. Well, that's what we're doing here. That's exactly what we're doing here. Then it may be that one is not happy that the ceiling on expenditure is being reduced. This is a political priority, but it does not change the fact that this is what the budget law says, for which we also have a broad majority in favour in Parliament, including the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114726	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114729	I shall try to put the question relatively simply, because for one and a half to two hours now we have been trying to get an answer out of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party without success. So it is a simple question: has the Danish People's Party, in the agreement that the Danish People's Party has entered into with the government, received a guarantee that an agreement has been made that every single crown covered by the re-priority contribution will be returned to welfare? It's a pretty simple question. Has the Danish People's Party or has the Danish People's Party not received it as a guarantee in the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114806	I thank you for the incredibly simple question and the answer will be just as simple. That's exactly the same answer I've given to both of you. Benny Engelbrecht and Mr. Jeppe Bruus a moment ago. I represent a minority. That's why I can't give you a guarantee. A guarantee is only something that can be issued if you have a majority behind you. That's the way it is. I have some opinions on what the re-prioritisation contribution can go to. I have explained them, and I have also taken note of what Mr. René Christensen, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, also in the report, has explained this, and so it is. It's kind of the closest I can get to it. I cannot grant any guarantee because I am unable to do so by a majority behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114844	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114847	I think the rapporteur misunderstands my question. Let's try wiping the board clean of the things that have happened in the past. I am not asking what is going to happen in the future. I'm asking what the deal says. In other words, it is a text that has been completed; it is an agreement that has been reached. What I am asking is: Has the Danish People's Party, in the agreement that has been made, received a guarantee that every single crown will be returned to the welfare of the re-priority contribution? It's not about the forward-looking. It's not about what happens in the future. What's the deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114920	Well, that is not quite right, because the financial law agreement is about the future, so it cannot be said that it is looking backwards. It looks forward, it looks into 2016. And in 2016, the re-priority contribution agreed with the Danish People's Party is 2.4 billion. kr., and it has been agreed that 1.9 billion. kr. We are going back to the municipalities, and there will also be a billion. kr. to a dignified package in the area of the elderly to the municipalities. That is what has been agreed, and that is what is contained in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114948	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204114953	Thank you. What we heard earlier from the Danish People's Party was that the Danish People's Party would like to give priority to the 66 most disadvantaged municipalities. And I would really like to ask whether that is something that the Left agrees with, that is to say that this re-priority contribution will be used to bring something back to the most disadvantaged municipalities or what is being done about thinking. Or is it all about tax cuts from the point of view of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115024	No, we do not see it as merely tax relief. However, prioritising in relation to the most disadvantaged municipalities is about many things. It is also about releasing funds that can then be invested. For example, the government has just presented a fairly comprehensive proposal on 100 points to create growth throughout Denmark. The municipalities which are particularly disadvantaged are, it may be said, typically located in the provinces, because there are problems in creating growth, and that is where there is a lower level of education and so on. Of course, Mrs Josephine Fock knows all about that. That is why we are saying that we are releasing some funds by means of a change of priority contribution, and then we are investing them by setting a direction and also by creating funding to create growth in all parts of Denmark, which is the foundation, too, and not least, of the disadvantaged municipalities, as we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115110	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115114	That sounds positive. But it is the case that one percent of the re-prioritised contribution is also taken from the most disadvantaged municipalities. And that is why I would really like to hear: have there now been discussions with the Danish People's Party in the context of the financial law negotiations on how to give priority to these municipalities in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115133	I am not going to tell you all about what is going on behind closed doors of discussions, and I also think that the Danish People's Party itself should explain this. I can just say that what emerges from the agreement we have reached and that is what I have tried to answer a few times is that we have a view that we want to set a direction. We would like to set out a direction in which investment is being made, and we would like to do so in the area of health and the elderly, and then we would also like to release funds for reducing taxes and taxes, provided that this can, of course, also contribute to a higher growth in this country. In addition, we have said that this is also what I mentioned before that we would like to make a package so that we can create growth in the outskirts, in the province, which in turn is the foundation for the municipalities' economy in those areas being better known. So we want to make it easier to make some money instead of this constant talk about whether to redistribute within a closed system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115219	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115226	The rapporteur needs to make something clear. For this debate used to run with the Danish People's Party for a long time, and now Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil has tried to ask the rapporteur, and he came around a little bit, etc. Let us just get a real answer, so we know: does the agreement we are talking about say something about what the money in the re-priority contribution is 7 billion? kr. from the welfare of the municipalities should go to? Does it say anything about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115301	Yes, the Finance Act states that the money must go to the priority of health, that extra money must be allocated to the elderly and that there must be a dignified billion for the elderly. These are some of the things that are contained in the Finance Act. In addition, there are also a lot of other good things about how we prioritise the overall budget, and that's why I'm trying to say that these things aren't black or white. There are, of course, different sources of funding. There is a re-prioritisation contribution, there may be something from phase 1 of the job reform and there may be other sources of funding which, of course, we find overall and then start to prioritise. And then it's just a little hard for me to say that exactly the crown that comes from the re-priority contribution must be reserved in a special cigar box, and that you can only do that if you take up that money and can spend it on welfare. Of course, we find overall financing solutions and then prioritise overall, and there are some things that go to welfare, and there are some things that go to tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115351	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115355	Well, okay, then we got it back. But I'll try once to get an answer. Why am I concerned with this? I am because the welfare of our municipalities is important. This was important in our election campaign, and it is important in terms of what people have voted for, and it is important in the future, in terms of what you really have to do with the economy. We know, of course, that if the government takes all the money from the re-priority contribution and spends it on the tax credits that is what the Prime Minister says you can do, as I understand the Prime Minister, that means that more than 10,000 people in the public sector must be dismissed in our municipalities. And it is difficult to find them without taking some who have to do with care for the elderly, childcare, schools etc. And that, according to the Treasury, is more than 10,000. So the question is: is this what it is defined and does it say in the agreement whether the municipalities get the money back or can they be used for tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115456	It may well be that I am the one who formulates me very, very imprecisely, but I do not think it is. A re-prioritisation contribution has been agreed under the Finance Act and 1.9 billion will be carried over in 2016. kr. Back to the municipalities. In addition, there will be 1 billion. kr. • a package of dignity in the area of the elderly. That is what has been agreed and then we take note of the views of the Danish People's Party and other parties on this issue. But that's what I can say, because I can't answer anything but what I can do. And to issue a guarantee, what more Social Democrats have asked for, I cannot do for good reasons. Our view is that welfare is about what you get as collective welfare. It's also about citizen-close welfare, and then it's about • you can say individual welfare in terms of keeping a little more money for yourself. That is the definition of welfare that we have and we take note of the views of the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115543	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115550	We have noted that the Left has begun to work on a new concept, namely individual welfare, which is tax relief to perhaps the very richest in our society. When we keep asking about this, it is because for an hour we had a discussion with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who said that the matter of taking 7 billion. kr. out of the municipal treasury over the next few years was actually an aid to welfare. It must be based on the fact that the Danish People's Party sees it as such that all 7 billion. kr. to be used for welfare: we take them up and then we put them back again. Sir. Jacob Jensen, of course, cannot guarantee anything at all, but Mr. Jacob Jensen probably knows what is in the agreement that has been made, and that is why the simple question is: has a guarantee already been given in the agreement to DF that that money will be returned to welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115646	I just have to correct myself, because I was told before that either they go to welfare or they go to tax cuts. It's such an old record I've heard at some point in a previous election campaign. Collective welfare is also to create a better opportunity to make money, and it is also better to keep a little more money for yourself, so you can have a little extra vacation, buy a slightly bigger car, a safer car, or whatever it may be. That is the balance that our fiscal policy is achieving. However, I can only refer to what I have said over and over again: what is contained in the agreement is a re-prioritisation contribution as part of the funding for the overall budget law. And with the Finance Act, we first of all have a priority of EUR 1.9 billion. kr. of the 2.4 billion. kr. from the re-prioritization contribution back to the municipalities, and in addition, there will be among other things. 1 billion kr. the elderly, which is also the service which the municipalities must put into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115733	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115737	Will the rapporteur confirm that the agreement in question does not give any commitment to the Danish People's Party that the money will be returned in the financial years of the estimates, i.e. the re-prioritisation contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115755	Now the rapporteur is asking something new, because I was talking about what is happening in 2016. Compared to 2017, 2018 and 2019, no decision has been taken on what should happen. I think that is obvious. Of course, we take note of the contributions made in the report, but there has been no political decision on what is going to happen with that money. We have taken a position on the Finance Act for 2016 and several people have asked what is in the agreement, and I can almost quote that now and it says that 1.9 of the 2.4 goes back to the municipalities, and in addition, this billion goes to the elderly area. However, I would just like to say again that I think that this debate, which the Socialists are trying to raise, that tax relief must be understood to be of evil, is a bit strange. That is what I was trying to ask as a counter-question a moment ago and, of course, for good reasons, I did not get an answer. But if tax relief is evil, must it mean tax increases or should we understand that the level of tax we have in it is one hundred per cent perfect on all taxes and duties? At any rate, that is how I see it: if tax relief is of the evil, then tax increases must be of the good from the point of view of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115900	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204115903	Now I understand from the rapporteur that we are in favour of taking 2.4 billion from 2017. kr. from the economics of the municipalities. As I hear it, the Left is in favour of making municipalities save money. Should the municipalities that have already taken this into account in their budgets by registering that you have to save 1%. in 2017 and onwards, hold on to their budgets, or should they say that it is not going to happen and that they have to change them? And what about those who haven't written this percent into their budgets? Now they're gonna go out and find a 1% saving? The Danish People's Party could not give a single example of a municipality that has helped save a new percentage each year without leading to savings for the elderly and children. Then I just thought that the Left has a lot of mayors and has been in a lot of budgets. Can the rapporteur mention a single municipality where the Left has helped to create a budget and where a saving of 1% has been found? every year 3 years in a row, without this leading to savings for children and the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120012	It is true that we have many mayors. We're really happy about that. They're doing great. However, I can at least refer to what KL himself has said, namely that since 2007 there has been a gradual increase in the efficiency of local authorities in the region of 2%. of expenditure per year. This is what can be seen in the publication of the National Association of Local Authorities •Effective municipalities. So you can say that this is something that is already happening out there now. Then it is just that we say that when we make the re-priority contribution from here, that is, from a central point of view, it is clear that then we will also have the opportunity to set the direction of those funds. However, it is nothing new from the point of view of the municipalities and the way in which budgets are put in the municipalities that we have to make efficiency improvements, that we have to make things more appropriate, that we have to get more out of the money. It's perfectly natural. If you didn't do it, I guess you weren't an adult. Fortunately, this is the case in the municipalities. You've shown that you can do it. The regions have shown an increase in productivity over the last 5-7 years, as far as I remember, in the region of 3-4 per cent. So it can be done if you do the smart thing. Of course, it can also be said that there is a very large difference between the municipality and the municipality, and that is why in some of the examples I mentioned earlier in the road sector, in the day-to-day services sector, in the school sector there is a very large difference between what you get in terms of service. And that must ultimately be what we all care about, not whether a penny is spent more or less.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120131	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120133	[Sound emission]... think of just a single municipality where savings of 1% have been made. 3 years in a row where it has not led to savings for children and the elderly. However, one does not agree with the agreement with the National Association of Municipalities and, in such a way, admit that the municipalities are already out in general terms and save 1%. (i) to cover the additional costs incurred in other areas per year; (ii) to re-prioritize in the region of 1%. out in the municipalities, and then you have been out reaping really, very many efficiency gains in advance? Now we are asking that they should be spared further, not so that they can be spent on something else, but so that they can be left over in the treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120219	They should not be left over in the treasury, because either they have to go back to the municipalities or they have to go back to the citizens. It is, in fact, the two possibilities that exist. Therefore, it is only that I refer again to some of the examples that KL itself has been promoting in relation to some of the analyses they have had made, namely that the differences between what you get from the money from one municipality to the other are very, very large. In the school area, I mentioned that there were 28,000 kroner. Between those who spend the most and those who spend the least money per year. student. In the day-off area it is DKK 30,000, and it has been pointed out that 300-400 million can also be found. kr. in the form of procurement and supply improvements in the municipal road maintenance area. And there are several other areas. So it is possible, of course, but it is a matter of prioritising, and of course it is also a question of not having everything in the world. This requires prioritising and, of course, it is already taking place in the municipalities. This will also have to be done in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120308	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120310	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party earlier pointed out in this debate that a compensatory mechanism was wanted. I thought that was interesting, and we support it from the SF. But I would just like to know if the Left can tell you anything about whether the government or the Left have made an agreement with the Danish People's Party to look at a compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120330	As far as I know, we have not made any definite agreement on a compensatory arrangement. What I was trying to give the impression of in the answer I gave to, I think it was to mr. Pelle Dragsted just now was that, in my view, the last system of compensation has not been seen, and for good reason, because the economy is constantly evolving, opportunities are constantly evolving, and developments are, fortunately, not equally taking place over the country. This means, of course, that you should not create a system which is forever, I was just saying, until the sun burns out; that is not the way it will be in relation to the compensation system. That is why, of course, there is a continuous work under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, which must also return at appropriate intervals and look at these things again. With the compensation system or the measures or adjustments we made here a few years ago with the previous government, it was also planned that Mr. Jonas Dahl must apologize, but I think it was within just a few years, 3-4 years at that time to look at just what things looked like with the municipal economy from municipality to municipality. That is the answer I can give.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120429	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120430	I am glad that we are now getting confirmation that what the Danish People's Party has like hung their hat on, namely that there should be a compensation system, and that it might be like that, now turns out to be completely scam and scam. That is very characteristic of what we have heard from the Danish People's Party today. We have said yes to a re-priority contribution, which means savings in the municipalities, but we stand by and say that we do not hope that they will be used for tax cuts, but we cannot give any guarantee that they will not be used for tax cuts. Then we are trying to talk about a system of compensation, and the rapporteur of the Left confirms that there is no agreement either. So it just shows that the Danish People's Party has not, in fact, gained any influence in relation to now agreeing to a re-priority contribution for 4 years. So I am glad the rapporteur confirmed that, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120508	The Danish People's Party certainly gets the influence that you also get, you can say when you sit and negotiate about things. That's the way it is. This applies to all parties here in the Folketing. I simply note that the point of view is that there is a desire for a system of compensation. No in-depth analysis has been carried out on this, and that is why I cannot stand by and say that we have agreed that it should be done at a certain time. I am just of the opinion that we have not yet set up the last compensatory mechanism. Then I have also taken note of that, as Mr. René Christensen has said that the re-priority contribution will be used, and that is what we agreed in the Finance Act on among other things. the area of elderly people, and this will be of benefit to those areas where there is the greatest need. That may be called a different system of compensation, but somewhere it is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120554	Then there are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204120608	Great. The vote that we will be holding here when we have finished the rapporteur's series is, in several ways, a rather historic vote. It is about whether there should be some historically violent cuts out in our municipal welfare. 7 billion kr. the municipalities must save if this proposal is implemented without the amendment tabled by the Enhedslisten together with the rest of the opposition. There will be violent consequences, there is no doubt about that. After all, we hear the rapporteur of the Left standing just now saying that the municipalities have been more efficient for years. What we hear from mayors, and they are not Social Democratic mayors, but Left Mayors, is that the leg has been cut; all low-hanging fruits are This is going to be a hard cut into the core areas of welfare. Yes, it is the area of the elderly, and yes, it is the area of children, but it is also the area of disability, and it is some of the most vulnerable people who are now going to stand up for it. It is getting older, who get fewer visits from the home helper, it becomes parents who have to deliver their children to institutions where there are not enough staff to create security and development. It will be people with disabilities who do not get the help to live a life that has the same dignity as the rest of us. That's the consequences of this. It is not a discussion of numbers, it is a discussion of what kind of society we want to live in, what kind of welfare we want to have, and perhaps what kind of life we want to offer the people in our country who are most at risk. After all, we have tabled an amendment which is basically about removing the re-priority contribution that the Danish People's Party has agreed with the government in the Finance Act, in other words to say that the 7 billion. kr. in cuts must go away, they must stay out in the municipalities so that they can take care of our elderly, our children, to ensure the development of our welfare at a time when there will be more elderly people. That's almost the bizarre thing about this. After all, we have been hearing for years that we are facing a challenge because of demography, that there will be more elderly people who will need help. Imagine that it was the same parties that said to the people: we must reform because we have increased spending, we have increased spending to care for the elderly. The very same parties that tied the people that story on the sleeve are now helping to cut back in the years when we see more elderly people coming. Today's vote is also historic for another reason, because it will give us the answer to a very, very simple question: Can you trust the Danish People's Party? The Danish People's Party promised over and over again before this election that they would vote against zero growth. I do not think there is a single Dane who has not heard Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, sir. René Christensen tours land and kingdom around with the promise that Dansk Folkeparti was a protection, a protection for our elderly, a protection for our welfare, a guarantee that no zero growth would be carried out in the municipalities. The Danes then cast their votes, they put together a majority of parties that promised the voters during the election campaign that there would be no zero growth. It's been five months, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl toured land and rich with these promises, but what are we seeing now? Yes, they have not accepted zero growth, that is perhaps what they thought they have accepted minus growth in the municipalities! Not only do the municipalities have to cope with the same amount, while the costs are growing, they have to cope with much less, a historic reduction in the economy of the municipalities. Then we hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party a long tirade of sea statements. It is said: it is really just that there are some municipalities that have less, and some municipalities that have more, but it is not a compensatory reform that we are discussing today. We in the Enhedslist will be very prepared to discuss this, and we have also been involved in it before, because we think we can move the money around, but it has nothing to do with the vote we are holding today. A majority in Parliament will be able to carry out a compensatory reform at any time, but that is not what we are discussing today. What we are discussing today is whether the Minister for Finance should fetch 7.2 billion. kr. out in the municipalities and stuff them into the treasury where they can be used for exactly what the finance minister wants. Then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that when you give something, you have to take something. It must be said that the Danish People's Party has really been successful in the financial agreement they have concluded. Money has been taken, for example. from 200,000 pensioners who receive a reduction in their housing allowance. 200,000 pensioners will be affected by the Danish People's Party's cuts in housing benefits. I can just say bell-clearly that when Enhedslisten had the guard, when it was we who had to put votes to a finance bill, it never had happened. What do you spend the money on? Yes, to make a Porsche 300,000 kroner. This is a very important point, and I would like to make it quite clear to the House that the Commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but rather to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Yes, I understand what the Danish People's Party says when they say that when you give something, you have to take something. You just take from the wrong guys and give to the wrong guys. Then the Danish People's Party says that they have written in the Finance Act that they do not think this money should be spent on anything other than welfare, and they have even made what is called a comment to the bill, where they write that it wants It is very good, but it is a wish As we have also heard in the debate, there is no guarantee whatsoever. We also heard the rapporteur of the Left say this: once this money is transferred to the treasury, and that is what happens, they are not earmarked anymore. They do not say'reassignment'; the cold and hot water flows together, as the rapporteur said. The Danish People's Party has no guarantee whatsoever that that money will not be spent on tax cuts this spring in negotiations with Mr. Anders Samuelsen had no guarantee whatsoever. Were they able to get that guarantee? Yeah, of course they did. The Danish People's Party is not just any party. The Danish People's Party is the largest party in blue block. The Danish People's Party could have just informed the government that if they were to vote in favour of this finance law, re-priority contributions should be removed. It would have been the most far-reaching. One could also have just said that if one were to vote for the re-priority contribution, it should be written into the Finance Act that every penny should be returned to the municipal welfare. You didn't. You actively chose not to use the power you have. That is the way one has managed the trust or power gained from the Danes so few months ago: by not using the power that one has. I understand if someone's out there thinking, "What the hell are you sorry about, sir?" President, no, Mrs. When we are about to vote on this amendment which abolishes these cuts in the municipalities, we will get a clear answer: was it a lie when the Danish People's Party said during the election campaign that they would not vote for zero growth? Will DF vote for minus growth in our municipal welfare? That is what we are going to vote on. And every member of the Danish People's Party is sitting down here, but there are a few who have thought that it has been important enough to give priority to prevent this. However, if the Danish People's Party votes in favour of this amendment, then one has to say that the party finally joins the series of parties that say one before an election and do exactly the opposite afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121558	A few have asked for brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121601	Well, thank you. I should just like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur does not think that it is actually possible to use the money that is now available, more or less, in a more appropriate way, so simply get more results if we define the result as well-being for the citizens who can feel it. Is it quite impossible that with the known financial framework you can do things learn from each other, develop methods, etc. When I think of and see some examples of investment in luminous benches, adult playgrounds and cultural houses for several billions of dollars, one can say that there is both the possibility of prioritising different priorities, but that there is also the possibility that money can actually be spent more appropriately than it is today in selected places, so that the money that has now been set aside is actually more well received.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121700	Of course you can. And it has also been done for a number of years in the municipalities, not least over the last year. But the government and the Danish People's Party are some chickens, because they don't want to tell us where it is to be cut. You don't go in and take responsibility and say: Well, okay, we think that this money is better in the rich's pockets by some tax cuts, so you have to cut in the area of disability or in the area of the elderly. No, you wipe it off on the municipalities; it's just cowardice. Can you cut 1 percent? a year after the cuts that have been made in recent years without it hitting the core welfare? No, I don't think you can. The rapporteur himself used the example of the regions. There has been a cut in and an increase in the efficiency and efficiency of the activity has it been without consequences? No, it hasn't. After all, the nurses in the country's hospitals report that things have come so far that they cannot guarantee the safety of patients any longer. That is the consequence of just increasing the efficiency of every year in citizen-friendly welfare. This isn't a factory. You can't just put up a robot and you can do it faster. It is welfare that is about contact between people, and there is a limit to how much can be made more efficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121810	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121813	However, the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten will not, after all, admit that when you look at the results achieved by the different municipalities, there is a very large difference between the two and it is clear from these socio-economic factors, as it says, what you actually get out of the funds you use. I mentioned in my speeches earlier that there is a very large difference between what is achieved in relation to the primary school area, in relation to the day-care area, in relation to the elderly area, in order to take the three core welfare areas. Would the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten not agree that there is a potential for making more of the money if one could learn from one another? There is a difference between how to do it today in the 98 municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121856	Now I was lucky enough to be in the debate with the rapporteur's party colleague a little while ago, sir. Martin Damm, and the rapporteur's alliance party colleague, Mr. Michael Ziegler, and they both made it very clear that that box, where you just stuff things in, and then you get a number out, this black box that can figure out that you could do it as cheaply as another municipality, you can't use it. For example: It considers a highly educated engineer with a foreign background to be the same as an unskilled who has come here from Somalia as a refugee. So those calculations, I think, can be so seriously doubted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121941	Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204121943	It's not a secret that even if Mr. Pelle Dragsted is relatively new here in Parliament and congratulations on that. Pelle Dragsted has been involved in the process around a number of finance laws where Enhedslisten has supported the then SR government. That is why I think I can quite rightly ask for an assessment, a professional assessment, from Mr. Pelle Dragsted's side of the passage of text in the Finance Act, where the parties only note that the Danish People's Party is making a contribution to the report and we know the contribution to the report. What kind of guarantee is there in the form of such a report's contribution to prevent funds from the re-priority contribution from going to tax cuts, or for that matter that they are going to go to what we now understand is such a kind of compensatory reform, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, described as an emergency guardian? What's the guarantee? What is the professional assessment of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122055	There is absolutely no one. When you negotiate Finance Law, the devil is often in the detail: what are the wordings used? What kind of guarantees do you get? Of course, that's what you're looking at if you're going home with a result you can be proud of. I have already quoted in the debate what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, said earlier, that if you could not get a guarantee that the money could be used for example. A compensatory reform would have to be voted 'no'. You didn't get that guarantee. There was no guarantee of anything. The money was passed into the treasury of the finance minister, and then any majority of the parliament can use it just as it wants. After all, we have heard from the rapporteur of the Left what the Left wants to use them for, namely what is called individual welfare. That's a funny expression, because I could talk about collective tax relief. It could be something like better service in welfare. We can begin to change the meaning of the words. I think that might be interesting. The fact is that when you spend money to lighten taxes for them at the top, there are others who pay, and they are usually people with ordinary incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122217	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122219	Thank you. It is always exciting to have debates like this in Parliament, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, because it is true what the rapporteur says, namely that the municipalities have really cut down over a long period of time. They cut to the bone. In fact, 60 municipalities under the previous government experienced negative growth. Can the rapporteur then not confirm that the financial law that has now been concluded for 2016 and of which the rapporteur is not a part actually provides a 0.3% growth rate. in public Denmark, and that we can now get more welfare in Denmark in 2016, than there was in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122252	It is a little funny, I think, that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, so a few months after we heard the Danish People's Party touring country and rich around with that 0.8%. Moreover, we have no idea whether this will be a reality. Unfortunately, from my point of view, what we experienced under the previous government and, incidentally, even earlier, was that the municipalities spent less than they budgeted for. That's why there was zero growth. We did not vote in favour of financial laws, which meant zero growth in the municipalities. We could never have dreamed of that. The fact is that because of the budget law, which I believe the Danish People's Party supports, one has a sanction regime which means that the municipalities are constantly spending less than what they have budgeted for. I would like to see until the end of 2016, and let us see if there has really been a local growth rate of 0.3 per cent. I would like to have such serious doubts as to whether this will be what we are going to see, but we can then discuss that when we get there. At least we know one thing, and that is that when we reach 2017, 2018 and 2019, we can see severe cuts in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122356	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122358	In the Danish People's Party, of course, we welcome the fact that these things come out in a debate like this one too from the Enhedslisten, which after all supported the previous government. After all, the Socialist-led government was severely cut. 60 municipalities experienced negative growth during that period. Now a new government with the Danish People's Party as a support party has put forward a proposal for a Finance Act for next year, and now there is a growth out there. There will be more money for the elderly, and there will be more money for the hospitals. We have had a discussion on an amendment, but I am at least glad that Enhedslisten is going on the floor and frankly and honestly saying: it is true that our watch was cut and that there was minus growth. On the watch now, when the Danish People's Party is the support party, there is a growth, not of 0.8%, but a growth in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122444	So there was a great deal of nonsense in that speech. Because there will be no more money for the elderly. The Danish People's Party voted in favour of an agreement with KL, which stole 1 billion. kr. from the elderly. Then you came a few months later and you said, "Now we're gonna come with a billion." kr. And then you expect the elderly in the country to clap their hands out in the foster homes. I mean, if you'll excuse me, it's just being a fool to the older people of the country. And we haven't talked about the attack on the country's folk pensioners at all. For your friends in the Liberal Alliance to be able to afford tax relief on the most expensive cars, a Porsche can be DKK 300,000. cheaper. The Danish People's Party therefore has nothing to boast about in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122531	That was the last brief remark made by the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122550	Thank you. The alternative has helped to table this amendment, and we do, because we believe that this re-priority contribution is wrong. As has already been said a great deal in today's debate, we believe that the re-priority contribution is wrong because it forces the already pressured municipalities to provide a worse service. We have also heard this from 89 of the mayors of the country, who in October were asked by BLADETMMENTUM, where they replied overall that they have an experience that they have an experience that it leads to a worse service in the municipalities. What we really have the biggest problem with is that we do not have any assurance that this re-priority contribution will be taken back to the municipalities. I think it is of course very interesting to hear that the Danish People's Party is as I hear it and interpret the text, and it is possible that I do the wrong thing to work for a compensation scheme that helps to ensure that the most disadvantaged municipalities get this money back. I'll look forward to that being some of what we can see is coming. But the reason why we are tabling this amendment is that we do not think there is any clear enough certainty about it. In our optics there is no guarantee of that. We are in a situation where the re-prioritisation contribution is drawn centrally. The ability of the municipalities to manage their own finances and to give priority to what they want to spend the money on, and we do not have any assurance that the money will go back to the municipalities. That's a lot of money we're talking about. That's 7 billion. kr., and we are of the opinion that this will help to knock the bottom out of the already very, very squeezed economy that the municipalities have. That is also some of the answers given by the mayors, i.e. that it is a problem. So I will look forward to having a debate on how to ensure that there is a real compensation system that guarantees the most disadvantaged municipalities. And that's what I hear the Danish People's Party will be working for. However, given that we do not have the security today and that what is being proposed is that there should be a re-prioritisation contribution which draws 7 billion. kr. away from the municipalities and into the state treasury, which could be used for tax relief and would not benefit the most disadvantaged, then we are against the original bill. That is why we are tabling this amendment together with the opposition as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122831	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122834	Thank you for your comments. Now, in this context, of course, the alternative is new in nature, and that is why I just want to know whether the alternative, as it were, is of the opinion that the budget that the municipalities have in the region of 238 billion. It is precisely the budget that is right or whether it may be that within that budget you can develop, get more for money, discover new ways of doing things, can learn from each other, all with the aim of getting better service, because I am quite sure that the alternative shares the view with me that it is the service, the results that are crucial, and not whether you spend a penny more or less. However, the alternative is that you can actually get more out of the money if you learn from each other, for example. in relation to the very large differences in school, day-to-day provision, in the area of the elderly and in other areas where it is done differently and thus also gets different results? I do not think that the alternative is of that opinion; at least the Left does not agree that there is a potential for it, so that you cannot just say: 1 billion. kr. more is equal to 1 billion. kr. better welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204122945	But on that point I fully agree with the questioner. But what I find really problematic here is that it is being pulled in centrally. Well, we're really doing it, saying to the municipalities: we don't think you're able to give your own priority to what you need the money for; we know much better in here from the central point of view. This completely deprives municipalities of the possibility of prioritising themselves out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123006	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123007	Of course, you might think so. However, if the rapporteur himself said before that the money should benefit the most disadvantaged, I would just like to ask whether the alternative thinks that it is good priorities, for example, that you invest in large cultural centres • I think it is in Aarhus that you have created a new one. That is very good, I admit, but it is nevertheless a priority that has been chosen, an investment of well over 2 billion. kr. In other words, is it not possible that different priorities can actually be set? I am not saying that we as Parliament should interfere in this, but I just ask: is it not possible that we can actually
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123043	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123043-2	Yes, you can give local authorities exactly the priority in the way you want to do it. But in this way, we're going to draw 1 per cent in advance. from the municipalities until 2019, which means that it is 7 billion. kr., we're at least pulling out of the box in advance. And that means that, after all, the municipalities will be hampered in relation to the money they have to give priority to. And I think it is very important that the municipalities themselves can give priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123107	No one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123119	This summer, as you know, an agreement was reached between the government, the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, which was that when the municipalities and the state had negotiated an economic agreement and thus also set the budgetary ceilings for the municipalities, the government in office could count on a majority in the Folketing to support such an agreement at any time. What has happened in the meantime is that the government has decided in its budget estimates to trump, force through a re-priority contribution to the municipalities and apparently has a majority in favour of it in advance. And that means, in fact, that we are now in a situation where it is a minority government which can both lay the financial framework for the municipalities in advance and which is then guaranteed support afterwards. It is so fundamentally undemocratic and so much a break with municipal autonomy that we do not want to be part of it by the Radical Left. Everyone knows that we support budgetary ceilings in the municipalities, everyone knows that we support a responsible economy, and everyone knows that we also believe that there is room for efficiency in the municipalities, but not in this unconscious way, in which all municipalities are forced to make the same savings and, moreover, have a financial law that is completely devoid of economic reforms, which could provide an increased scope for investment in education, care for the elderly, etc. As everyone promises, the teeth rip completely out of the municipalities' ability to negotiate an agreement that they can vouch for when it comes to next year. We do not understand that the Danish People's Party will be a part of this. We also do not understand that the Liberal Alliance or the Left will be involved in this either. This is a fundamental breach of the rather proud tradition we have of ensuring an equal negotiation between municipalities and states in this area, and it is not in line with the spirit in which the agreement of this summer was made. That is why the Radical Left is co-sponsors of these amendments, and so we would very much like them to be adopted so that we could vote in favour of the law as such when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123344	One person has asked for a brief comment. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123347	I have a nagging feeling that the Radical Left is in favour of these amendments, not because the Radical Left has a major problem with the re-priority contribution, but because the Radical Left wants to ensure peace internally in the red bloc. I cannot imagine that the Radical Left does not think that it is a sensible principle of government management for the public sector, that pressure is being put on all parts of the public sector to make it more efficient and that, in the case of the municipalities, it must also mean that the state will have a share in the efficiency gains that are out there in the municipalities, knowing that the state is financing a large part of the municipal expenditure through block grants. I do not believe that in the Radical Left there are opponents of the re-priority contribution as a principle, but here Mr. Martin Lidegaard might make me a lot smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123436	There is no doubt that our main problem with this re-priority contribution is that the municipalities are forced to implement it and then the state confiscates it. That's centralization. That's what it's called. That's exactly the opposite of what the Liberal Alliance usually prides itself on. Finally, if we believe that what we call an unconscious re-prioritisation is to be done, we clearly believe that there is room for efficiency, but we would like to see a little more targeted work being done and linked it to a confidence reform, which the Liberal Alliance has also advocated before, so that the efficiency gains could be better targeted, yes, we are also involved, but not in such a centralised form, in which we confiscate the money afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123516	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123518	Centralization, they say. In other words, if I do not remember quite wrongly, it is a quarter of the municipal money that comes from the state, so it is an expression of the fact that there is a central payment of money to the municipalities. And it is clear that if there is an increase in efficiency in the municipalities, then it must also be felt in the contribution of the state to the municipalities, so the contribution of the state to the municipalities must also be reduced, so that the state can give priority, for example. to lower some taxes or to spend money elsewhere in the public sector. Why wouldn't it be like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123604	Now we are of the opinion that by far the largest and by far the most important part of public spending is going on in the municipalities, so it could also be that the individual municipalities should have the opportunity to prioritise, for example. training. After all, the whole area of education is also shaved up. vocational schools, secondary education in rural areas, which are at risk here. If the municipalities had been allowed to keep that money, they could bet it, invest it in the future. Now we don't know what the money's gonna go for here. I'm gonna give it to you. It is a big question whether it is the Liberal Alliance that gets them for tax relief, or the Danish People's Party that gets them for the elderly, or whatever it is, but they certainly cannot go to it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123642	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204123649	Thank you. It is an interesting discussion that we are witnessing today. If you remember a little bit back on the election campaign we were doing only six months ago, the Danish People's Party was very busy both talking about broken election promises and not least talking about how much money you could spend yourself. You wanted to use 0.8, and you went to the polls on that. One was sure that you could also get Lars Løkke Rasmussen's understanding of this. What happened? Yes, despite the fact that the Danish People's Party became the largest party in the bourgeois camp, one refused to join a government, but it now turns out that the influence that has been gained is very, very small, to say the least. It is also thought-provoking, especially when you look at the text in the report on L 2 and L 3, which is what we are really discussing here today, because what is written on the part of the Danish People's Party? I think we should really take some time to discuss that. Yes, one writes that one is formally against certain parts, but that one still votes in favour, and then one writes and that is where the hypocrisy really comes up and where one really has to sit with a strange taste in the mouth of the Danish People's Party that one wants to ensure the core welfare, but what can one do? One might wish for a little, but one almost concludes oneself that one would like to help save on core welfare in the municipalities, and then one might hope that one can get a little back. However, as the Minister for Finance said a little too loud just a moment ago, it may be that there can be a bit of tax relief and welfare. And then it is clear that those from whom the money goes, namely the municipalities, will have to pay the bill, since for the next four years they will have to cut welfare without any guarantee whatsoever that the money will ever return. One might wish for something, and I think it is quite commendable that the Danish People's Party, especially in a Christmas month, has a lot of desires, but one must surely say that hypocrisy has taken incredible heights, because at the same time one is now saying yes to savings four years in the future, without having received anything at all again. Yes, in fact also with the Finance Act that we will be dealing with later this month, you vote in favour of the very expensive luxury cars being cheaper, you vote in favour of the homeowners feeling the richest, because the tenants do not get a share in it again get some tax breaks. So it really must be said that the Danish People's Party has either sold itself lightly, or you have not been vaxed at the garden gate when the negotiations started. But I have to say that I am most amazed that the Danish People's Party does not even see in a contribution to the report that you make that you are not even willing to say that what you say is 'yes' to is not just 2016. No, the savings in the municipalities in 2016, in 2017, in 2018 and in 2019. That is what we are going to vote on when we are about to vote on the amendment we have taken the initiative on the part of the SF, which says that if we want to change priorities, we can do so on the state framework. Then the finance minister can distribute that money. We are, in fact, well aware that when you make political agreements, the Minister of Finance can, but what you cannot, is to say that you take the money from the municipalities in advance and leave it to the country's municipal politicians and, after all, there is also a part of the members of parliament who sit in this Chamber from the Danish People's Party, who are also members of a city council which is now going to find savings not only next year, but also for the years to come in the perspective, without any certainty whatsoever that the money will return to what you want to give priority to by the Danish People's Party, the elderly, perhaps also the children and the public school. But I can say that from the SF we are at least very disappointed that we do not choose to focus on strengthening welfare. That is what is happening now, namely that you will be saving quite significantly on the welfare of the municipalities, with no certainty whatsoever that the money will come back. I think it is significant to call it hypocrisy, as others have done here earlier today from Parliament's platform. I still have the credit to hear, although sir... René Christensen, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, had his long time on the platform a few moments ago, an argument as to why one does not choose to support what is actually widely supported by the other side of the House, precisely to say that if one wants to have a re-priority contribution, one must put it on the state side, and then one has to negotiate it from there, but that today the Danish People's Party will finally say yes to making savings for the municipalities for the next four years, I think it is very, very thought-provoking, and I also hope that some of the Members sitting in the Chamber will ask themselves whether this is really what they were going to elect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124118	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124120	I should just like to ask whether the SF's rapporteur is of the opinion that the priorities that the municipalities are setting are one hundred per cent reasonable. And is there absolutely no possibility that, within the existing framework for the economy of the municipalities, priority should be given to what the SF also cares about, namely citizen-centric welfare? I do not want to interfere in the priorities of the municipalities, but I just ask. Seems SF, for example, that's even from an area like Mr. Jonas Dahl knows very well that you could have given it a different priority when investing and prioritizing a few billion kroner for a new cultural house in Aarhus? Or is it possible that other municipalities could spend the money differently when they give priority to spending money on, for example. luminescent benches or private jets for committee trips? I am simply animating the SF to make a comment on that. If, however, one cannot give more precise priority to core welfare within the framework of the highest historical standards when it comes to finding 1%. to the re-prioritization contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124226	I am quite sure that better priorities can be given, including in Vejle Municipality, where they chose to charter a private plane with a Left Mayor in the lead. I hope, then, that the Left will relate to how to spend the money of the municipalities. I do not believe that it is the Folketing that should interfere with the priorities. It's the opposite, sir. Jacob Jensen and the bourgeois side are actually going through today. They say to the municipalities: We don't trust you. We would like to take some money by re-prioritizing from the centre, and then we will make sure that the money is distributed to where it is to be spent. But you cannot get an answer as to whether it is for tax relief or what they want to spend the money on. Are these new tax reductions on luxury cars? It does not seem that there is full agreement on this in the bourgeois bloc. But you can agree that you take the money out of welfare without being able to give a clear answer to what you are actually going to spend the money on. So from the SF's point of view, we do not think there is any need for further centralisation. We believe, in fact, that we need confidence in our municipal people, and I think that confidence should also be exercised by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124322	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124323	I deliberately mentioned Vejle so that it would not be called that I would just point the finger at, for example. Social Democratic mayors or one mayor of the SF. It was precisely to show that there is in fact a great deal of higher priority to be given to core welfare. Well, you can find the percentage that is being asked for without it going to affect the core welfare. I understood the answer so that the SF also recognizes it now. In any case, that was the answer that the SF rapporteur gave and which I took note of, and for which I am grateful, because I am quite in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124356	I would like to give a guarantee that I am quite sure that one will be able to feel it on the core welfare when it comes to implementing the re-prioritisation contribution. I think we will see this when we see the municipal budgets being adopted for the coming years. And I also hope that the Left will recognise that it will cost core welfare, not only in 2016, but also in 2017, 2018 and 2019, where the municipalities are going through further savings year after year. I think things can easily be done wiser in some places, but I do not believe that we can do so much wiser as the government is going to do, and I do not understand that it is basically the weakest in our society, the users of our welfare, who have to pay for the tax cuts that the Left would like to give out in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124434	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124445	No amendments have been tabled to draft law No. L 1. We shall vote on the amendments to Bill No. L 2. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1, tabled by a minority (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), and I am starting the vote now. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2 and No 3 by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. Then we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to L 3. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF). I shall start the vote now. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA, KF and 1 S (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I shall now look at the amendments. 2-4, tabled by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. I suggest that Bill No. L 1 referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm gonna need a little quiet in the hall. Thank you. I suggest that the Bills No. L 2 and L 3 go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee, and if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124726	Does anyone wish to speak? If that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124805	I would just like to ask Members to go out in silence if you are going to go. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? That is not the case, so the proposals have been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124839	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to L 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124906	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? That is not the case. They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124931	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur in the rapporteur's series is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204124948	Thank you. The draft law here gives effect to the agreement on the taxation of electric cars concluded in September between a number of parties. Up to now, electric cars have been completely exempt from registration tax. It has been a technology that required longer development before it was mature. At the same time, the technology-intensive cars, which the electric cars are, are hit by the fact that we have a tax system in Denmark that taxes by value, and thus the electric cars would be quite expensive if they were in the tax system. That is why they have so far been exempted from creating a breeding ground to get an electric car market going in Denmark. For a number of years, the extension of the exemption has taken place as short-term 1-year extensions of the exemption from registration duty, and this does not provide clarity and predictability, either for car buyers, dealers or producers. One of the positive things about the agreement and the bill here is precisely that it provides a clarity and a long-term framework for the market in electric cars. Another issue for financially responsible parties must be about the economy in this, because in this case, in other words, where the exemption did not cost the state very much at the start, as many new models have been put on the market and more and more electric cars are actually sold, it has become a cost to our community, which responsible parties must take into account. A full exemption would cost 650 million next year. kr. It's money that hasn't just been set aside anywhere. The Left and the Danish People's Party were ready to let the tax wall hit, which would stop the market for electric cars altogether. We would not do that now, so the task of social democracy was to create a long-term solution for the electricity car tax conditions, to deal with the revenue problem and, at the same time, to ensure that electricity cars and charging infrastructure continue to spread in Denmark as part of the green transition that we support as a party. And we think we have succeeded in reaching an agreement that takes account of those concerns. There'll be clarity. Over five years, electric cars will be phased into the registration tax system, and in that system electric cars will therefore continue to receive a heavy reduction in the tax due to their fuel efficiency. Hydrogen vehicles remain completely exempt for a further 3 years. It's gonna be a while before that technology's ready. For us, it was also important that the smallest electric cars that several municipalities buy out and equip different employees with, or small electric cars that may be the family's small car no. 2, holds roughly the same price as today. And it has also succeeded, because the smallest models keep the price and will therefore remain available. Of course, it is the case that luxury cars become considerably more expensive. They have undoubtedly contributed to the development of the electric car market, and some great vehicles are being produced, it has to be said. But it is also an expensive business for society in the long run. As I have been informed, in 2015 we will reach the point that the exemption costs 1.1 billion. kr., and that the 900 million. kr. So the tax rebate on luxury cars is a cost. It's just to put the numbers in a little relief. Those companies which set up charging stations and thus help to roll out the infrastructure for the electric cars are exempted one more year from the charge for charging at these charging stations. It is uncertain how the proceeds will develop in the coming years. We would like to continue to ensure good conditions for the roll-out of that infrastructure and are therefore concerned that, when we look at the further evaluation of the law here, we also consider whether to continue the exemption of the electricity tax on charging. We are prepared to do so immediately if there is, of course, sound funding for it. This is a completely different issue which needs to be addressed, namely the question of the financing of this whole agreement, because there are, after all, still some costs when a slower phase-in into the registration tax system. It was essential for us that the price should not be paid by making ordinary family cars considerably more expensive. It has been agreed that the parties will meet again in August and will assess developments and thus also be able to revise the agreement if developments differ significantly from those envisaged. And that is, among other things, that 23 000 electric cars will be sold for the next five years, despite the fact that the tax exemption will cease. During the same period, battery technology is significantly improved. We think that we have addressed a corner of car taxation here, but actually have a general desire to change car taxation in Denmark, so that more account is taken of environmental impact, climate impact and not only value. It keeps new technologies out of the market. However, instead of a unilateral reduction in registration fees for the most expensive cars that we will be discussing later today, we would therefore like to have a greater discussion on a more sensible change. With those comments and this introduction, I can say that the Social Democrats can of course support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125501	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125505	I just want to hear about the rapporteur's expectations regarding the sales of electric cars in the coming years. I have, of course, also noted the comments made by the draft law that cheaper electric cars are expected in terms of the cheapest of them, but that is based, to put it mildly, on some, let us just call it airy assumptions. Is it not the case that when the price rises, and even quite violently on some of the types of car, it can be expected that sales will drop and perhaps even stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125542	I'd say if that's the case, sir. Henning Hyllested is right, it is fortunately made in the agreement that the parties have committed each other to meet again and take account of the situation if Mr. Henning Hyllested's description will be correct. Because it is intended that there should continue to be an expansion of electric cars in Denmark, which contributes to a green transition which we support. There is also just a need to be economic sense in it and a sense of madness. And I haven't seen sir. Henning Hyllested has a very large funding he would rather spend on exemption of electric cars rather than welfare schemes or other environmental measures. That is the balance that needs to be struck. But if you are part of the agreement and help to take responsibility for this, you will also be able to adjust it if it turns out that electric car sales are falling significantly and that we do not get the development with the continued sale of electric cars as required. The tax department's expectations are this another 23,000 over the next five years, and we have to take that as a basis until otherwise shown.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125644	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125646	As far as funding is concerned, I assume that the rapporteur's attention has escaped the fact that since the change of registration fee in 2007 there has been a lower annual revenue • it has gradually grown to between 6 billion. kr. and 8 billion. kr. After all, the previous government promised in its government basis that we would have this change to bring about a green change in the vehicle registration tax. It never happened. But I do not really see that there is any connection. I guess there's really money to fund this green change, if that's what you want. I do not see that in the agreement or in the draft law that has been put in place in any way whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125732	The agreement here is simply about the electric car market, and that is also what I am pointing out in my speech, namely that we would like to see a continued discussion on a more fundamental change in car taxation, which takes much more account of environmental and climate impacts in the different types of vehicles. And we think it is quite wrong to go down a one-sided reduction in registration fees on the most expensive cars, which the government is doing with the Finance Act and which we will have to discuss later. However, in the agreement here there is funding for phasing-in in the first year and an obligation to find it still, and the elements mentioned there are, in fact, also some that will be very good for the environment, not least the particulate filter tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125813	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125817	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that, in terms of what is to be said, ordinary smaller electric cars, the price will remain quite stable. But is it not true that a Nissan LEAF, which I think the rapporteur agrees with me is not a luxury car, is going to increase by about DKK 70,000?? I guess it feels the same way. All experts agree that if we are to enter a low-carbon society, some of what we really need to address is transport, including passenger transport. That is why it makes no sense to completely phase in electric cars into the general tax system, when the government makes the most expensive luxury petrol-powered cars significantly cheaper at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125908	It is quite true that some of these medium-sized cars will be more expensive than if they were completely exempt. It goes without saying that if a product or a car has so far been without the tax, which is relatively high in Denmark, one must say the registration fee will be higher when one removes such a complete exemption. I just think it should be borne in mind that the way in which this change is being made does not mean that the fuel efficiency of cars is no longer taken into account. That is what you are doing, and you will see a huge discount on the registration fee on them as well. But they will be more expensive than today, that is quite clear. The smallest models will have the same price. And that was one of the things that was important to us when we entered into the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125953	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204125956	Yes, but there are also cars as such a LEAF, which I don't think most would call a luxury car. And it's going to rise by $70,000. But I'd like to ask you something else. Can the rapporteur explain something about the green ownership tax? 'Cause I think that's a little funny myself. Normally, we put taxes on something that we want people to change their behavior with. How can it be that green ownership charges are to be applied to electric cars from 1 January 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130029	Because it has to be acknowledged that, despite the fact that electric cars are significantly less climate-laden than conventional cars, electricity is not something that is produced in such a way without cost to the environment either. Therefore, as owner, as well as for all other cars, a green ownership tax will be imposed. It is, of course, part of the fact that they come into the general tax system, that they are also covered by the green ownership tax. Then I have to say again that I understand SF's concern for electric cars. You also just have to take care of everything so that it can be connected, and I have not seen that SF has funding for the many things you go and say, also about electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130115	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130119	I think that the treatment of this matter has led to the appearance of some strange things, and now we have come to the conclusion that there has been a deduction for cars which have a car radio and that is then abolished. In my opinion, it is natural not to give people a deduction for having car radio in their new car. The treatment of this case has also shown that there is also a deduction for having brakes that comply with the law, and it is such a bit strange that people are granted a deduction in the registration tax if they have the brakes that the legislation thus ensures that they should have. So I think this case has really revealed that we should have gone much further. I would like to know whether there is no possibility in the further process of bringing in some adjustments. I see, for example. the possibility of linking charges with the fact that electric cars should be included in a more intelligent system, where they are charged at the right times and thus open up the possibility of favouring the charging of electric cars at the right times in relation to our renewable energy production.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130225	There are many interesting things about car taxation in Denmark that call for further discussion, and some of the things that are mentioned here are also some of the things that you can have in a discussion if a change is to be made later, and there needs to be funding within the car tax system to do so. We have been involved in this with the car radio, which at some point has been a safety device to get in touch with drivers when accidents occurred. Being able to get through with traffic reports is important, but it is now standard equipment, so we thought it was good that it could be used as a source of funding, so that parts of this deduction were removed. One of the things that can then also be under way is to impose on vans before 2009 the charge for not having a particulate filter that other diesel cars are currently subject to, but where, for a very strange reason, it has not been imposed on these vans from before 2009. Then I would just like to note that if you have any wishes about how this is going to be, there is an opportunity to be involved in negotiating it, and Enhedslisten has not been interested in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130331	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130334	Yes, Enhedslisten was very interested. I also took part in a single negotiating meeting, but it was certainly a fat game where you weren't interested in making quite a lot of changes. We should have made far greater changes, and then we could have made a slower phasing-in of registration fees, including on electric cars. So, as a starting point, we were not opposed to reaching an agreement, but I fear that this agreement will put an end to the roll-out of electric cars. I would like to call on the committee to look very carefully at the consultation answers that have been received, where the industry representing electric cars has a sensible consultation response, which I would urge you to look at carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130411	Of course, we must take that into account in all the consultation responses received. I would also like to say that I personally have in fact been in a thorough dialogue with a great many stakeholders in this area, who have really stuck to and made their opinions known along the way. Then I would note that no, in fact I do not think that the Enhedslisten was negotiating seriously here. We were still interested in a full tax exemption, and that is a legitimate point of view. We must then be able to finance that, and then it is a little free to come and say that we would have liked to have taken co-responsibility when we did not really try. The Left and the Danish People's Party were prepared to let the tax wall hit completely. We do not think we should, but we would like to take responsibility for a good solution, and we think we have found that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130453	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130502	This bill is about the tax on electric cars and on hydrogen cars, which is based on an agreement between the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Radical Left, and the aim, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, is to create a calm and longer-term framework for the industry. It has to be said that after a great many years of short-term tax exemptions and when it has been difficult for the industry to figure out exactly what would happen when the tax exemption expired. This is also the reason why we in the Danish People's Party are included in this agreement, because if no agreement had been reached, the electric cars would hit a toll wall of 180%. From one day to the next, which we think would kill the market because it is a fairly high wall, you could say if you just go from 0 to 180%. In one day. Therefore, we thought that we should try to make a more relaxed phase-in and also create conditions that were more long-term, so you had something to do in the industry. In concrete terms, it can be said that it is phased into the existing system, where today there is a conversion model that allows ordinary petrol cars to receive a deduction of DKK 4 000. for every mile, it can drive more than 16 km on the liter. A conversion model has been created for how far an electric car can run at 1 kW, which is equivalent to what is 16 km on the liter of a petrol car, and there you get a corresponding tax exemption of this 4,000 DKK. This also means that electric cars, which are very economical in their fuel consumption because their energy source is electricity, drive very long and thus receive a very large deduction, which, as I said, is quite positive. The phase-in will take place towards 2020, and there are so many others. a ceiling of DKK 800,000, which means that you do not get an ongoing discount for that part of the amount, which is over 800,000. That's one of them. In order to keep the revenue down, we have to say that it is, after all, a rather expensive exercise with the tax exemption. I should also like to point out that, after all, there has been a 10,000 kr bottom-up allowance. in the agreement, which is a good thing, because in this way we will ensure that the cheapest of the electric cars continue to be relatively cheaper and will therefore also be attractive to roll out among citizens and municipalities and who else has an interest in it. I also think it is worth pointing out that hydrogen cars continue to have tax exemptions, because it is a technology which is still rather new and has not spread to the same extent as electricity. For this reason, they are granted an additional tax exemption of three years so far. As has also been mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur, there is the temporary system of compensation for electricity for charging electric cars, which for the time being is being extended by one year. Then we will have to sit together sometime next year to find out what is going to happen to that scheme. It has to be said that it was originally not part of the agreement, but there have been some disagreements between the Treasury and the industry about how to understand the rules and how to interpret the rules in the past. That is why we have given each other a handshake that so far they have one more year, so there is a little time to find out exactly what is up and down in the interpretation you have, or that you can choose politically to say that you want to do something else. We'll have to look into that in a year's time. The funding comes, among other things. from foreign exchange rental cars and from the reduction of the radio deduction from DKK 1,000. 600 kroner. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of But there is then a challenge with funding in the years after, and this is simply because it was quite urgent to make an agreement on this because otherwise this tax wall would come from the turn of the year. And since we have later committed each other to finding funding in the years to come, we also have a little better time to find funding that is more milder than it would necessarily do when we were under pressure. And I think that is actually a quite sensible way of doing that. But I can say that the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130924	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204130932	The previous rapporteur, the Socialist rapporteur, and now also the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, are talking about the whole issue of funding. Is it not true that in the course of the negotiations from among others? The Enhedslisten's and also a number of other parties' side was very much asked whether, if you would like to continue the green transition, it is not because I have to accuse the Danish People's Party of wanting to do so, but that is the case with other parties in the negotiating circle. kilometres, you drive more than 16 km per. litres if they are petrol cars and more than 18 km/h. A gallon, if it's diesel cars? If you regulated on that deduction it's immensely 4,000 DKK. per kilometers per kilometer There was plenty of funding to continue with a tax exemption if you wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131044	Yes, I can confirm that if you wanted a clean tax exemption, you could have financed it by saying that all other cars should have a higher tax or, in this case, a smaller deduction. It has just been chosen among the parties to the agreement to give priority to the fact that this was not the solution, because, after all, it will be quite expensive in the years to come if you make a full tax exemption. I also assume that this might have been a temporary extension, because at any rate my impression is that I do not know about the Enhedslisten, so you can explain that later on you can see that at some point you also have to phase it into the ordinary system in some way. But it is true that if you wanted to, you could have just screwed the button and boosted the tax on all sorts of others if it was that you would finance it so that the electric cars were completely free of charge. But we just didn't think that was a good model.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131128	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131130	Yes, yes, I am aware that the Danish People's Party is certainly not in favour of the price of cars going up like this at all, but this was not about boosting it up to 22 km/l or more; there was perhaps talk of 18 km, 19 km, 20 km. In fact, we were given some calculations which showed that this way around could be financed by a continued tax exemption.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131157	Well, it is true that that model could be used well, but it would be quite expensive, in my opinion, to tax-free electric cars altogether. So, as Jesper Petersen of the Socialists said earlier, it would cost 1.1 billion. kr. immediate effect pr. This is a great deal of money and also a great deal more than what is involved in the financing of this proposal. We have just given priority to the fact that it is not money that we think we should spend on electric cars. But, on the other hand, I would say that among the many buttons you can screw on, it would be obvious to include it in a general change of car charges, because we still feel like Enhedslisten that one should look at, that is, that one should look at a general change that is more technically based. And there it is obvious that you also look at all the other parameters.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131237	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131246	This bill is what can be called a good solution to a difficult situation. Denmark got a new government well over 5 months ago. One of the very first things the government did was to do a check-up. We had to know how much money we had to do with before we could see how much policy we could implement and how quickly it could be implemented. Unfortunately, the state finances were not as good as we expected and as the previous government had said. At the same time, we were faced with a situation where the tax exemption for electric cars expired to New Year, which would mean an immediate increase from 0 to 180%. on all electric cars. It would be a huge increase for the market and difficult to come to terms with. So we were faced with the task of finding a solution in a relatively short time on how to phase the electric cars into the ordinary registration fee. Because we wanted to find a long-term solution, so we got some stability on the market and there was some predictability on the market. That is why we have chosen to make a transitional arrangement, which is five years old. From 1 January, you will have to pay a full registration fee on that part of the electric car that costs more than DKK 800,000. In other words, this also means that of what is below 800,000 kroner, only 20% must be paid. of the registration fee. It will then be set up, so it will be fully phased in by 2020. If we had to continue with a full tax exemption next year, it would have cost 650 million. kr. in tax revenue, and we should have found that money somewhere else. We do not think it would have been reasonable for all other car owners to finance such a tax reduction for the few car owners. That is why it is a fine agreement that we are now implementing with this bill. It is financially responsible, while ensuring that account is taken of the fact that the electric car market is not yet fully developed, and it is therefore still attractive for tax purposes to buy electric cars in the next few years. Fortunately, the electric car market is in rapid development and electric cars are constantly becoming better and more attractive, so it is expected that sales of electric cars will continue to increase. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that this is a very broad political agreement, because in this way we will ensure a predictability in the market and a stability that is needed in the electric car market, and so I would like to thank the other parties to the agreement who have also shown responsibility in this situation. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131531	It's at the moment. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131543	Thank you. I can hear that the rapporteur of the Left is very concerned about where the money is to come from and that this is going to be expensive. And then I just wondered if the rapporteur of the Left could clarify for the House and those who might see how much money it is that the government spends to make the most expensive luxury cars, that is, conventional petrol-powered cars, cheaper from next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131609	The question is not really about this bill, so should we not take it when we deal with the legislative proposal that actually deals with it instead of taking it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131615	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131617	That's a very strange answer. The rapporteur's speech was about the lack of money, but there is money for the richest company heirs, and there is money to make the most expensive luxury cars significantly cheaper. I can then inform the rapporteur that it is about the same amount that the government spends. And that is why it is surprising that they say: Oh, we would so like to save the electric cars, but unfortunately there is no money for that, because we need to spend it on the most expensive petrol cars. And I think that's just too bad, because this is the future, and the money has just been chosen to set different priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131656	It is true that this is not part of the Finance Law Agreement, and this bill is not part of the Finance Law Agreement, and therefore it is not part of the Finance Law Agreement itself. After all, they are the ones with whom you make financial legislation, which influences what kind of agreement you get out of it. And the parties that have concluded a financial agreement are not the same parties as those that have concluded an agreement on electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131715	Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, for a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131720	In his speech, the rapporteur says that, in terms of funding, the rapporteur does not think it is right for all other drivers and car owners to pay for this feast. I understand from the rapporteur that there is an ambition to reform the tax system, and the previous government had at least a revenue-neutral reorganisation of the tax system on the wallpaper. But then I do not understand how things can be any different from having to move around within the system, and that means that if you want a green transition, if you want to promote the technologies that are more clean in some way, you have to take it from other drivers. And let me just say that we have a long catalogue of things to do. I have already mentioned fuel efficiency and there are such things as harness alarms, ABS brakes, anti-skid systems, airbags, etc. etc. It would, of course, be fair to look at it, and I therefore believe that we pointed that out during the negotiations on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131830	Now we are not talking today about a general change in the registration fee, but I understand that Enhedslisten has some views on how it should be if it is to be changed. I would say that we have not, in our government base, rejected the possibility of doing so, and I also know that there are some parties who want to do so. But that is not what we are dealing with here, and we do not have any proposal at this stage to change the registration fee any more than we have proposed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131856	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131858	After all, the discussion is about the financing of the amendment to the registration tax law that is now before us, namely the phasing-in of electric cars into that system, so it is a bit nasty to stand up and say that this is not about the • yes, it is. This is, of course, about the funding of the person concerned, and that is what I am trying to point out, i.e. that in the Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative, during the course of the negotiations, we tried to point out that there were perhaps other sources of funding than those that have been identified. Moreover, the funding that we had pointed out would have helped green conversion some way along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204131939	Well, I fully understand that Enhedslisten wanted a different path than we did, but we do not want it to be as significantly more expensive for ordinary car owners as it would have been if they had chosen to do those things. We think it is essential that you can afford to buy a car, that people who do not have that much money can afford to buy a car. This has an impact on mobility. So if you raise the taxes dramatically, it will of course have an impact on mobility, and therefore we were not prepared to say that ordinary car owners had to pay so much money for someone to get a much cheaper car.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132012	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132017	We may disagree on whether it is a good legislative proposal or not, but I think that when the phasing-out is now complete, the rapporteur thinks that, without supporting and setting a direction on our part, Parliament can expect the citizens to simply drive this through and that companies will drive this through without helping to make it economically attractive to buy electric cars and thus to change the whole of the carism we know? I mean, I think it's a very, very short period you get to change an entire culture. So does the rapporteur think that this can be done entirely without intervention and financial assistance from the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132100	Now the rapporteur must remember that we have actually had a period when it has been totally exempt. So there has already been a period of time now when it has had the opportunity to settle down. And every time you put it off, it has been said that it took another year, it would have come into force a great deal. I believe that the electric car market can carry this up here, and it is my intention that it should be able to work on equal terms with the other car brands in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132123	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132126	Are there any plans for what to come for? It's a long way off in the future, so I don't necessarily expect that, but it's interesting to hear if anyone already has to support it. And then I just think of one thing. There have been companies that have tried to build different industries with support on this market in Denmark, which has had to turn around and say that there was no possibility of doing so. There is a lack of support that is simply lacking in civil commitment. I am just thinking: is it really possible that we should not support such a major upheaval that the industry alone must ensure it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132202	Now, in fact, I think that the industry has been very much supported in recent years, and so it does for a number of years to come. They still have the tax advantage over the next five years, so it is not because they are not being supported. I think it is easy to get up from there and move on from there. I think they can do that, too. We do not currently have any plans for what will happen in five years' time. But I'd say we're following this on a regular basis. Like the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Jesper Petersen, said, then we meet to follow developments in this area, because we are concerned that we will not have the electric cars knocked under the ground, because we would not have made a transitional arrangement if we were not interested in them continuing. We have made a transitional arrangement because we believe that it can be obtained that more electric cars are still being sold away and that the electric car market can continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132243	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132255	That is true, as has been said: the draft law is the implementation of a political agreement concluded between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radicals. And it is also true that Enhedslisten took part in the negotiations on phasing out the tax exemption for electric cars to the end. We had a hope that we could, of course, influence the outcome so that it became as relaxed as possible. It was important for us that the phasing-out of the registration tax exemption did not put a halt to the market for electric cars. At the same time, it was important to clarify the issue, as the industry has been living for too long with uncertainty as to what would happen when the tax exemption ended at the turn of 2015. As you know, we left the negotiations at the end when the agreement that was on the table failed to meet our most important demand: that the sale of electric cars should more or less stop, especially the sale of the smallest and cheapest electric cars. And even though transitional arrangements, admitted, have also attempted to take this into account with the base deduction of 10,000 DKK. in 2016 and 2017, that's not good enough. We did, of course, point out a number of funding proposals in the negotiations. We did, and other parties did. But those who ultimately made the deal wouldn't buy that. In the Enhedslisten we therefore believe that this phasing-in of registration fees for electric cars will have serious and negative consequences for the sale of electric cars in Denmark. This is, of course, the starting point for us to abandon the negotiations and also end up voting against this bill. Of course, we would have preferred to see the tax exemption continued for a few more years. The sale of electric cars in Denmark, although increasing, remains very low. There is therefore still a need for birth aid to take developments seriously. We have, of course, been very successful in other areas. Take e.g. The windmill adventure, as it is said to be today. Now the green transition is not the strong side of the government. On the contrary, we have had green realism now and it covers a number of environmental degradation and roll-backs in a wide range of areas. Just look at the lowering of registration fees, which the right-wing Finance Act contains. Of course, it leads to more cars and more driving and to the emission of more CO2 The same effect has the lowering of prices respectively the increase in the transport allowance for crossing the Storebælt for commuters. This is, of course, the wrong way to go, and one might wonder about the timing, i.e. COP21 in Paris. This poor agreement on electric cars here and the green realism in general will then be the implementation of it, we may say plundering and embarrassing toasts made by the Prime Minister to the Heads of Government in Paris. One can get the feeling that the government has initiated a crusade against electric cars. At any rate, the Minister of Transport, at the last moment before the announcement of the new Road Act was sent out, has hastened to change the possibilities for municipalities to provide free parking for electric cars. The first proposal took away the possibility entirely from the municipalities, but after consultation of the Order, an opportunity was introduced to introduce a discount scheme, which has been labeled by the City of Copenhagen as inadequate and useless. Not least the City of Copenhagen, which probably also has the greatest need in this area, was ready to take advantage of the new opportunities in the new Road Act. But alas, the government just doesn't want the green transition. The government also knows that transport is the great pain child when we talk about the Danish CO2 contribution. An increasing proportion of the CO2 and the government also knows that Denmark will soon be subject to a quite massive reduction in CO2 We simply have to change the way we transport ourselves. It is about better and cheaper public transport, but it is also about promoting fossil-free technologies, or we should say almost fossil-free technologies in cars. If we are to achieve a fossil-free society, at least when it comes to fuels and fuels, by 2050, which I understand is still the ambition of the government, something needs to be done in this area. And this proposal goes in exactly the opposite direction. So the Enhedslisten is, as it appears, against this bill. But of course we welcome the fact that, in addition, insufficient funding is available, among other things. is obtained by reducing the deduction for car radio. This is, of course, a proposal for which Enhedslisten has been fighting for many years, along with many other good proposals for reducing vehicle registration tax deductions. Car radios are a relic from the time Lars E. Christiansen reported on queue settings at the Clovtoft intersection Friday after Friday. And now it looks like we're finally gonna get rid of it. After all, it's a little gratifying in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132802	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Merete Riisager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204132811	Thank you. L 61 is about electric cars and a phasing-out of the tax exemption for electric cars. In the Liberal Alliance, we would like to see the registration tax for cars completely abolished. When we broke the registration fee basket in the 2016 Finance Law negotiations and got it down from 180%. At 150 per cent, it was the first time in history that registration fees were reduced. It was incredibly pleasing for the many Danes who need a car every day when they go to work, pick up children or for sports. So we have nothing against lower taxes, not for cars, not for electric cars and not for other cars at all. We simply believe that tax reductions should apply in general. It is the case that the more the policy of the Liberal Alliance is implemented, the cheaper the electric cars will be, just like all other cars. We want the Danes, as is the case in our neighbouring countries, to be able to buy cars that are newer and use modern technology. It will be possible to remove the registration tax in general, but the model that was on the table here, where ordinary car owners had to pay for the electric cars being allowed to keep some of their tax exemption for a period of time, obviously we could not agree to it. It is seen from where we sit a bad deal that made it both much more expensive to buy an electric car and more expensive to buy an ordinary car, and therefore the Liberal Alliance is not included in the agreement. The agreement removes, among other things: The tax deduction for car radio, and we can discuss, as has also been said here from the platform, whether this is a modern way of setting up the tax system. Instead of such a specific deduction, one could just make the tax a little lower. However, by simply removing the deduction, ordinary car owners are required to pay for electric cars, and of course we cannot do that in a country where car taxes are still as high as they are. On the bottom line is that if you want newer cars with better technological equipment, you should work for a general reduction in registration fees, and that is exactly what we are doing in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204133023	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204133030	Thank you. In order to talk me into the way in which this bill has been drafted, in which we must remember competitiveness and also give citizens and all the professions that are now working against each other a level playing field, I think it is essential to say that there is no point in having state-aided green initiatives without a deadline. But when we talk about such a radical transformation as we are talking about when we go from petrol and diesel to electric cars, among other things, I think we should think about how normally we talk about growth centres in the government. In other words, when we talk about synergy and the creation of incentives to do something, there must most often be some critical mass through which it can happen. And it is simply so impossible for us in the alternative to see how we can say no to supporting a sustainable green transition by among other things. to give this market massive support for a number of years. It is possible that it is not sustainable on the economic bottom line alone in the first place, but there is rarely anything like that when we talk about investment in innovation and in the future. So I think it is a pity in every way, as was also mentioned by Enhedslisten before, that at a time when, for the first time in the history of my political career, we are getting such a paper hat on COP21 that we are actually putting ourselves really, really bad in this area where we have had good remarks in the past, there is such a proposal here, where there is great and broad agreement that it is right for Denmark. And I'm just thinking, what are we going to invest in? Where are we seeing our blue oceans in the competition out in the big world? Where are we gonna put our bullets in the box? I think that sustainable conversion is one of the places, and that is why I think we should think longer than saying that it should be equal competition, even with car owners who drive in the old way, including myself. I'm not ready for electric cars yet either; I'm in the head, but I just think it's too much trouble. I wish I was ready and went out and was first mover, but there are all kinds of other obligations and reasons why you don't go out and do it as a private person. We need to motivate people to make the right decisions. And this is more than a five-year period in which we expect business and the private sector to ensure a green and sustainable transition. I simply do not want to put this on the shoulders of business. So the alternative says no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204133307	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204133313	Thank you very much. It should not be a secret that the Radical Left had given an answer by entering into the agreement which is behind this bill and which means that we will also vote in favour. Clearly, as several of the parties already on the platform, we would have liked to see the tax exemption for all electric cars continued for 1 year, perhaps even 2, simply until the electric cars had found a foothold on the market. But we also felt that there was a need for at least one real green party remaining in the circle of agreements, and there were three reasons, three concessions that led us to end up with. The first was that we actually had a number of concrete improvements to the current system, not least a bottom-up allowance for the smallest cars, which means that next year there will actually be a great many electric cars which will be free from the fact that taxes are now being phased in. It was important. The second is that we have also been stressed that this is not a conciliation, it is a vote agreement. And that means that if we can get a majority in here to make it even better for the electric cars, we are free to do so, and we hope that we will, of course, be able to do so at some point. We cannot guarantee it, but it is still an important letter of freedom to have. But perhaps most importantly that is what we put the emphasis on, and that is the third reason we have written into the agreement, that if the prerequisites do not last, including most importantly, that the electric cars that we expect from this are not sold, then the parties to the agreement will review the whole agreement and discuss what we do. It also allows us to go in and see if this works as intended in August, when we have agreed to establish a status for the first time. Then there is, of course, the fact that when you work your way forward it is a detailed piece of legislation, I would say that we are dealing here with discovering different things that can be done better, and there it is therefore everything else just better to sit inside than outside the door. That is why we have gone along as the responsible party we are now, to ensure that there is transparency and there is a watchdog who is constantly watching that this is actually an agreement that can be used for electric cars. One example of this is the tax exemption which we have now been granted for 1 year for those who are in the public domain. There it was the Socialists and we who lifted it up again, and I hope we can persuade the other parties to continue it when we meet in August. We think it is absolutely crucial that investors who have invested in public charging stations can also expect to be able to deduct their electricity consumption, just as all sorts of other companies can deduct their energy consumption when it is an important part of production, if I may put it that way. So I would like to say that in this spirit, over the last two weeks in the consultation phase, I have received a number of requests from various parties: citizens, owners of electric cars who are concerned about parts of this bill. Therefore, we may not have finished asking questions to the Minister and finding out what is up and down. I would like to mention three of them today, which I hope the Minister may already be able to comment on today or at least be able to comment on during the committee procedure. On the one hand, the Danish Elbil Alliance has expressed a concern that what we have agreed can actually be approved in the European Union. And of course that is important, because if it cannot do so before Christmas, the agreement cannot come into force per year. January 1. I understand that the Treasury has a clear presumption that it is possible to do so, and I hope the Minister can confirm that today. Then I've got a letter from a citizen... I'm sure several of us have paid several thousand kroner a fee to order a Tesla, but haven't made a binding contract on it, but have paid the money. I do not know how many people have done so, but for me it is perhaps as binding a commitment as a signature if one can demonstrate that the money has actually been transferred before this agreement was concluded, in anticipation of having a car. I hope we can agree on that too. It can't be a very large number of Tesla we're talking about here. Finally, I have received a letter from the organisation that works for fuel cell vehicles, and they point out that we have a little ambiguity about fuel cell cars, which also have plugins and battery for electric charging and which get a very high price. Perhaps I would suggest that we take them under the ceiling of 500 fuel cell cars, which we have decided to exempt completely. We can discuss this during the committee procedure. It is just to raise some of the issues that will be relevant to discuss. And with a hundred per cent guarantee they are not the last, and that is why I am also looking forward to having the continuing dialogue. I would also like to acknowledge that they, you might say, anchors and questions we have had so far, have been received seriously by the tax minister. I hope they will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204133818	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204133822	Thank you. Now I know both the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party well, and that is why I was surprised that the Radicals agreed to this agreement, not because the Social Democrats agreed to it, but because the Radicals agreed to it. Because it is true that there is a slightly slower phase-in than if it had been 180%. per January 1st, but the consequences are still great. Well, a middle-class car will be about 77,000 kroner. More expensive. Right now there is a climate summit going on in Paris, where people are discussing and saying: we need to take all the solutions in order to reduce our CO2 All the experts just agree that when it comes to passenger transport, the electric cars are the future. And not many electric cars are being sold today. Does the rapporteur think that this was the best that could be achieved, rather than being parties, perhaps even with the Conservatives, who at least sometimes have a green profile that went in and pressed the government and said that it was simply not ambitious enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204133926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204133927	I would very much like to join in pushing with the SF because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, this is not an agreement that binds the Radical Left to anything. We were very concerned that there was no agreement at all, because if it had not come, we would have, bang, got 180 per cent. registration fee on all electric cars per year; January 1. That is why it was absolutely essential for us that something should be done that prevented it, while at the same time guaranteeing that we could continue to press for favourable conditions for electric cars. So I'd love to work with SF on that. This agreement does not stand in the way of us trying to form that majority in the Folketing, and that was one of the important reasons why we could go along with it. But I think that we have already proved that it is a good thing that there is a green party in that agreement, because we have actually already adjusted it after we made it in a better direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134013	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134017	If the rapporteur now says that the agreement should be looked at and relatively soon again, will the rapporteur not also look at the green ownership tax? For one thing, it is economic in it, but it is a strange signal, as we get cleaner and cleaner electricity, to say that you have to pay a green owner tax as an electric car owner in line with the owners of petrol-powered cars. I would like to ask a supplementary question. Now, of course, the rapporteur is not responsible for the tax exemption or reduction that has been granted on the most expensive petrol cars, but is it not a strange signal from the government to say that there is no money for electric cars but that there is money to make petrol cars cheaper?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134102	I agree with the latter one hundred per cent, and we will also vote against the relief in the registration tax on expensive cars. We think it's money out the window. So we won't disagree on that. This is, to put it bluntly, a difficult balance of whether we could benefit the electric cars better by being on board than by standing outside. It is quite fair that the SF has come to a different conclusion, but we came to the conclusion that we could do best by being among the parties to the agreement and then try to pull them in the right direction, while at the same time we would like to continue to create public pressure to help the electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134135	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134141	The rapporteur would like to make it better for the electric cars to be the right green party, the rapporteur appoints the Radical Left to be. It's okay. However, is there any reason to assume that price increases in the 70 000 to 80 000 crowns class, not to mention Tesla, which are rising hundreds of thousands of kroner, are giving more cars sold, or is the problem for the electric car market really not critical enough, that we are still missing more cars on the street to ensure the technological development, where the fall in prices, which I understand you are operating with, is being vertically contradicted by the industry, by the electric car industry in general, by the electric car industry, which, I would venture to claim, is actually taken out of the blue air? In other words, is this legislation really promoting the green transition in the transport sector, or is it just such an emergency guardian?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134247	Well, that's obviously an emergency guardian. The alternative to it would have been 180 per cent. registration fee on electric cars per year; January 1st, and that would have been a disaster for the electric cars. So this is the least evil we could negotiate through. It would have looked even worse if the Radical Left had not been involved. At the very last moment, after Enhedslisten had left the negotiations, we had incorporated and negotiated some improvements. But I would have liked to have seen a whole tax exemption, which I should not hide from. Perhaps it is just such a little difference in the method that the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left work after politically, that we would like to go in and try to pull things in the right direction rather than stand and wash our hands outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134331	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134333	Perhaps sometimes one should in fact choose the method chosen by Enhedslisten. Sometimes you might have to say: okay, so let those who want to roll back environmental measures and implement black financial laws at all and, by the way, reduce energy agreements and what else is responsible. Because, in my opinion, this agreement and this legislation do not promote the green transition in the transport sector, which we are still facing. We have seen a real black government come to power, and I do not think I disagree with the rapporteur on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134410	That is a fair balance. I think it is very worthwhile to be able to take part in reviewing this agreement if we do not get the electric cars that we are supposed to have. There I have an important handle and it is important that some are ready to use that handle. It is also quite fair that we are very different parties. There's a lot that Enhedslisten says no to. They also said no yesterday. Enhedslisten managed to get a no. I'm so sorry. I believe more in hope and the positive approach to things. But it also makes a difference here, and I am convinced that the fact that we are in this agreement makes it better, even if I would have liked it to look quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134446	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Then it is the rapporteur of the SF, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204134506	You wouldn't really believe it with the media coverage of the last few weeks in Denmark, but there's actually a climate summit in Paris these days and weeks, where the whole world, even the United States, China, a lot of countries, a lot of companies, a lot of mayors in big cities around the world are looking very, very seriously at the challenges we face and presenting solutions, technological solutions, encouraging to invest in technology, etc., because we have no choice in dealing with the challenges we face. It has not been noticed much at home. We even have a government that is shamed by 950 NGOs in Paris and has the dubious honour of being designated as a seven-mile backwards country in relation to the green transition. It has to be said that all solutions have to be in play in order to reduce our CO2 This is not just something I say or as Enhedslisten says or as the Alternative says. Niels Buus Kristensen, Head of Department at DTU Transport, is also a member of the Government's own Climate Council, although they do not listen to them, and he is also a member of the former government Climate Commission and Commission of Tribulation, says in the latest issue of DTU's magazine that, based on what we know now, electric cars are the only 2 And then the most ambitious thing to say is that instead of killing the electric car market quickly, we allow it to bleed out over a few years because we don't have the money in the box, because we need to spend on making the most expensive luxury cars, petrol cars cheaper, almost crown to crown! That is what can be called a revenue-neutral reorganisation of the tax system. From next year, a minimum of 20% will be added. on the electric cars and they will be fully phased out by 2020. The various players in the industry do not in any way share the government and the optimism of the other parties in relation to the future sales figures for electric cars. Nor do the Danish Elbil Alliance and CLEVER agree with the government's figures and believe that this is totally unrealistic. That is why I am also looking forward to seeing the rapporteur of the Radicals pulled in the famous brake as soon as possible, because these figures are not going to keep track. I bet you do. When everyone who works in this area, in the industry, says that those numbers are simply desk work, that they can't in any way recognize it, then I think you should listen to the industry. Then there is the bizarre thing about imposing a green ownership tax on 1 January. Normally, we say that the tax system should be used to influence one way or another, and one can then politically agree or disagree with that, but that is a way of influencing it. But here we want to impose on electric car owners, while at the same time getting cleaner and cleaner electricity, to have to pay a green owner tax. The electric car is the key to the green switch. Our transport system is a great CO2 I also know that from left to right in this Chamber there are people who are fond of the electric car. This does not mean that we should not take care of the fact that our tax system is challenged, but this is simply a bizarre way of solving it, because almost crown-by- krone you spend the money you could have spent on electric cars to make it cheaper for the most expensive luxury petrol cars. Apparently, the money can be found. Then the Socialist rapporteur said that we did not really have any funding proposals. Yes, we have plenty of funding proposals. Our financing, the Alternative and Enhedslisten actually surpassed what it would cost to free the electric cars. All we asked for was that the tax crack came up on how far an average car runs on a litre of gasoline. Today, it is cars that drive less than the average, which make a financial gain out of it. Alone by letting that crack rise to the average, we'll have plenty. We have received an answer because we have asked several times in the Ministry of Taxation. So this is about political will, it's about blindness to the enormous challenges we face, it's about living in some little bubble here in Denmark, where Paris is far, far away and everyone else has to face the challenges. I would like to appeal to the rapporteur of the Radicals, who I know has a green heart, to pull the brakes that have been written into the agreement as quickly as possible. I think this is deeply unambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135022	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135028	As you know, we in the Liberal Alliance would have liked to continue with the tax exemption on electric cars. We just didn't want to fund it by raising taxes on other cars. So we did not want a tax increase on other cars to finance it, and that is why we left the negotiations. When I take the floor now, it is because I would like to say that I think this is total hypocrisy of the left here today. The reason why it is so difficult to exempt electric cars from registration tax in Denmark is that there is a high tax on all other cars, and this is something you want to maintain. It is, of course, the fact that it will be such a hugely good business to buy an electric car, because the registration tax on the other cars is so high that the Treasury loses so much money in a tax exemption for electric cars in Denmark. That is the reason for it. So if you want to tax-free electric cars, you also have to have the registration tax on the other cars, otherwise there is too much tax speculation in it in Denmark. We have nothing against it, because we want to abolish the registration tax on all cars. So we have no objection to everyone changing to electric cars in line with technological developments and then the registration fee disappears completely in Denmark. But it is hypocrisy on the part of the left here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135138	It's not. What the rapporteur says is hypocrisy. Fossil fuels will be subsidised globally by $5 trillion in 2015. That's 14 billion dollars a day. That is 35 times more than what renewable energy is being supported with 35 times more. So every day, as a society, taxpayers, politicians, we go out and support fossil fuels 35 times more than we support renewable energy. That would be about as much as a litre of gasoline would cost 40 kroner. in Denmark. So that is what the rapporteur says there is hypocrisy. Everything is upside down if we look at what it costs us as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135230	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135234	After all, taxes are now levied nationally and not at a global level, and according to the economic wise men, the Environmental Economic Council in Denmark, ordinary fuel cars are totally overtaxed in Denmark. The tax on petrol and diesel alone could cover all the negative externalities of cars, including those on the environment. So it is not true that they are subsidised in Denmark. They are overtaxed in Denmark. That is why it is still keeping away when I say that the reason why Danish society cannot stand to exempt electric cars from registration tax is that there is so much tax on all other cars that there is so much to win for car owners and so much to lose for the Treasury, by people switching to electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135317	Well, I think that's the discussion, sir. Ole Birk Olesen has to go with the IMF, because these are IMF figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135322	There are only two brief comments per year. rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135331	I do not know whether this is worth spending time on, but if you go through the proposals as the weeks go by, I would say: no, then SF does not have funding for all its proposals. This makes the political debate a little more complicated and sometimes meaningless, but no, it does not. Here is an example of how you thought it was okay that ordinary people with relatively small incomes should have considerably more difficulty buying an ordinary car. And we're out of that balance. There may be other times when you can get a better car taxation system, but we did not think the SF's proposal here was sensible. My question is: when does the SF think the tax exemption should end, because that day has to come sometime. So how many more years does SF think we should have a complete exemption from taxes on electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135433	Well, I'm aware that all scientists in this area are saying that we need to keep our hands under the electric car market to get things going better. And then the rapporteur can play Christiansborgfnidderfnadder with funding proposals, but the fact is for the rapporteur there was there himself that SF had a funding proposal that gave more in the box than it would cost, only by ensuring the reasonableness of not being financially rewarded for having a car driving less on the gallon than an average car. That's fair. But to answer the question, I would say that you could look at Norway and be inspired from there. There they put 50,000 cars as a number where they would look at it again, and they have actually chosen to extend it. It is not certain that this model would suit Denmark, but there is still a good deal to be done before the tax exemption should be removed. Again, I just have to point out: we subsidise fossil fuels much more than renewable energy in Denmark and throughout the world. So it is Jesper Petersen's children and grandchildren who will pay for cleaning up after using fossil fuels because we will not have our transport system transformed into renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135543	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135546	Yes, but my question is such an attempt to get some kind of soberness in the discussion, because I actually get such a little sore in my head that we have to have so excited a rhetoric about it. Because if it is the case that we can say very clearly that there must be a tax exemption on electric cars for many years to come, I really think it is sympathetic, but we also have to take responsibility for the whole of it, then you have to have an idea of how much it will take, how many years it will last and how you will have to pay for it. So I'm just trying to get the drill out: How many more years does SF think there should be full tax exemption? I don't mean anything by Norway. What does SF mean? How long should there be a tax exemption?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135628	But I just answered that question. Well, that depends on how fast a certain critical amount is coming out on the Danish roads. It is going to take a lot, much longer, with the agreement that the Socialists have helped to make. And the government has said that for almost exactly the same amount one would rather make luxury petrol cars cheaper because one would not spend much the same amount on exempting electric cars. Then we just say from the SF: this is crucial to reducing our CO2 which is why it is small change in the big accounting, and therefore the electric cars would not have to enter the ordinary charging system until there are many more of them on the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135711	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204135720	Normally, I and the Conservative People's Party support the proposals of the government, especially from the tax minister, because these are quite excellent proposals that the tax minister usually makes. But the proposal here is moving in the wrong direction in two crucial areas: firstly, there is a risk of destroying the entire electric car market with the construction that has now been put in place; secondly, at that time ordinary cars have been made more expensive for consumers. Fortunately, this was corrected in the context of the Finance Act. We will be discussing this in a few moments where registration fees were reduced from 180 to 150 per cent, so ordinary family cars would be cheaper. On the contrary, the agreement here means that ordinary cars will be more expensive to remove the radio deduction. But the most important and most important reason why the Conservative People's Party is against the proposal here is that you risk destroying the entire electric car market. The electric car market locomotive has been and is until the turn of the year Teslaen. You could say that this law is a kind of lex Tesla. In other words, in relation to the transitional arrangements that have been established for electric cars, it has been decided that we will now be frontrunners to introduce a tax on electric cars in Denmark and that we will soon be the only country in Europe, with a single country as an exception, which will introduce a tax on electric cars. I also agree with some of the rapporteurs who have been asked to say that they are not quite sure that the calculations are based on the assumptions that are at least not when you talk to the players themselves on the market. I believe that most of these normally mainstream parties agree that it is for the benefit of Danish society that we have some electric cars for the sake of our environment and for the sake of the green transition. The locomotive that is for the electric car market in Denmark and that there are not really any parties who dare to talk about it because it is for the rich and all sorts of others, you think is the Tesla. It is Teslaen who has made it legitimate to drive an electric car; it is Teslaen who has made it attractive to drive an electric car; it is Teslaen who has made it attractive for ordinary people to drive an electric car because you have a Tesla as a model. There you have chosen here in the conciliation circle... probably for reasons of envy and because of the jante law... to really knock at it, so that Teslaen from 1 January 2016 becomes almost physical and financially unattainable to most Danes. And there I think the consequence will be that the carrot and the bar there will mean that the electric car market risks stalling because you don't have the carrot and the bar you try to run and push. That is why our entry into the negotiations would have been a good thing, we have also informed the Minister that Teslaen should not be hit so hard; not for the sake of the Tesla, of which no one in my party has any interest or ownership, but for the sake of the entire electric car market. Therefore, the Conservative People's Party cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204140041	Thank you, sir. Brian Mikkelsen, and then it's the treasure minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204140046	First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the approval of the draft law by a majority of parties. After all, this results in an agreement between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, which was concluded on 9 October this year, on the future tax conditions for electric cars and fuel cell cars, including hydrogen cars. The parties behind the agreement, which has also emerged today, are, of course, united in ensuring, at least in our view, a smooth and balanced phasing-in of electric and fuel cell vehicles into the registration fee. The draft law would also like to bring peace to the framework conditions for fuel cell cars and electric cars in Denmark, where it has to be said that there has been some uncertainty. This has been due to the fact that the previous government announced that there should be a continued tax exemption beyond 2015 but, of course, did not specify funding for it. That's why trying to find a solution was a bottom-up task for me as tax minister. And I would like to sign up to those parties that have been united in trying to find a solution and, by the way, also to finance that solution. I believe that the reason why the previous government did not resolve this is that it costs some money if we are to continue with a full tax exemption. It costs a lot of money. And even if you wanted to find the very large amount of money in the general registration fee system, that is to say. It is a bit difficult for other car owners, and it is also a little difficult to find such a large amount of money on the Finance Act at a time when we also want to prioritise other things. That is why I think it was an unsolved task that we took over from the previous government. We have then, in cooperation with the two former governing parties, the Radical Left and the Socialists, come up with a solution for which I can fully support it and for which I believe the parties concerned can also stand by. I would also, of course, like to draw your attention to the fact that we have not discussed this much today, but Mr. Martin Lidegaard referred to the fact that a precondition for the phasing-in arrangements to enter into force is the existence of State aid approval by the European Commission. There is the Ministry of Taxation in a close and active dialogue with the Commission on this and hopes for clarification by the end of the year. And if there is no clarification, the electric cars are hit by the full registration fee. We are doing everything we can to get a clear answer from the European Commission, I hope. But it is the draft law here and the entry into force of the new tax conditions mentioned in the draft law, that is to say, conditional upon it. And if nothing happens, then, as I said, you hit the full registration fee. I should also like to thank you for the answers received and to the full extent of the hearing received by the Ministry of Taxation, despite the fact that the bill has been submitted for consultation with a shortened deadline. I am sorry that the four-week consultation period has not been respected, but that is partly due to this. in writing. - (FR) The fact that we must have it adopted by Christmas so that, hopefully, it can enter into force with EU approval only in January next year, because if that does not happen, the electric cars with the construction that is now in place, when the tax exemption for electric cars runs out on 31 December of this year, will be affected by the full registration fee, and then those who are concerned about whether the electric car market is stalling can at least see it happen. The purpose of this bill is to make sure that hopefully it doesn't happen. I am, of course, at your disposal to answer questions. Sir. Martin Lidegaard had a few that I have not answered here about a specific situation with regard to whether or not this is a binding purchase agreement, and I propose that the question be put in writing, and we will, of course, look at it constructively. I would also like to acknowledge the progress we have had, the number of parties involved in the negotiations. Some people ended up back. I think that was quite constructive. There was a will to try to solve this task. And with the parties that are behind the agreement, we will, as the debate here today has also illustrated, tackle any challenges that may arise. It's not wanted to kill the electric car market. It's wanted to make a phase-in. That is why some prerequisites have been laid down in the agreement, and if there are significant changes in terms of those conditions, we will meet again. It's just that it's all about that, I think the debate here today may have lacked a little bit of priority. It is a question of how to prioritise the state's finances. I would like to see a complete tax exemption for all cars. I would also like to see a tax exemption for electric cars. But whether I want one thing or the other, I have to deal with the fact that there are quite a lot of revenue coming from the registration tax. It is a very, very large amount of billions. And if you want to remove the registration fee, you have to find that money somewhere in the state budget. If you want to tax-free electric cars in 2016 and 2017 and 2018 and 2019, you have to find a billion euros on government finances, and I think that all the time that no one has so put forward concrete proposals on how to do it is an expression of the fact that it is not as easy as it sounds. And that is why I think that the agreement we have made here reflects a sensible phasing-in of electric cars into the ordinary registration fee, and I do not believe that it will kill the electric car market, but it will, of course, slow it down in relation to a situation where there is a total tax exemption. I do not think I will say anything other than that, and I will answer any questions that may be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204140630	There are a number of questions for the tax minister. The first brief remark is from Mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204140637	It is for this discussion about the tax exemption when you let your car up at the barnstands that companies have made into a business in the form of roll-out infrastructure in this area. We have now decided that there will be no electricity tax in this respect for one more year. I am well aware of the Minister's point of view on this, but I just think it is necessary that it should also be part of the discussion here, namely to hear the Minister's position on the possible extension of it. By prolonging it, we are still making sure that there are some taxes on cars, but the actual ability to get in and get them charged across the country has some favourable conditions, so that there is a continued spread of infrastructure. So I would like to hear some reflections on this from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204140730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204140731	Well, we have decided that we will meet in August and discuss the further financing of the agreement in the financial years forecast, because it costs some money. That's the way it is. The amount of money to be found depends on whether the conditions laid down in the agreement are met. One of the things that I welcome is a desire that has been raised both by the Radical Left and also by the Social Democratic Party, in relation to whether to extend this lucrative system for electricity to these electric cars from public charging stations. After all, it has been said that there are a number of infrastructure projects which have been based on the fact that this tax exemption was granted for a number of years and, after all, it is removed by the agreement. We have then said jointly in the circle of agreements, at the request of the two parties concerned, the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party, that we will allow it in 2016. And I would also like to take a positive view of the fact that we will be able to look at this in the following years when we have to finance the agreement here in August. But that depends on whether we can reach an agreement, and I hope we can. There may be other parties that also have other wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204140839	Sir. Jesper Petersen does not want any further brief comments, and so it is Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204140846	I would just like to be part of the government's plans for the green restructuring of the transport sector, including, of course, the fact that this is the tax minister's resort to the reorganisation of the registration fee. After all, the minister says that this costs a great deal of money and that it has been a great deal to do for the government and also for some of the parties that have made the agreement that the money should not be paid by other drivers. But I guess that's what it's all about when it comes to the whole thing. If you want a green change in the transport sector or a green change in passenger car transport, you will actually have to take away from the technologies that are deceiving and which emit CO2 and then you will also have to promote technology like electric cars. I don't quite understand what the government's plans really are. Do you want the green change? I shall not suspect the government of that, certainly not, with the magazine that has already been developed. But I still want to ask what the situation is with this sector. Is it a green switch, or is it just a question of some drivers not being hit?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141016	Then it's the minister! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141017	After all, there are two considerations for each other, and that is what lies in green realism, where we are looking at the fact that we want a green, environmentally-friendly conversion, that we want cars to pollute less than is the case today. But there must be realism in it. After all, it is the two considerations that are there. I think, in fact, that you could choose to take the helicopter perspective and, for example, if you take the helicopter perspective. to reduce emissions of CO2 I actually think it will turn out to be a very expensive way to do that. There are many other ways to go further and to reduce emissions of CO2 more cheaply than by replacing our vehicle fleet with only electric cars. If you look at where electric cars are produced and what it costs to produce them, you get a slightly different CO2 We generally have a desire to get a more environmentally friendly car park, and you can get that by supporting a technology like electric cars, but you can also do that by creating a charging system that supports cars that drive a long way on the gallon.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141124	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141125	I am glad that the Minister has mentioned this. Are petrol cars today driving 16 km/l, or if it is a diesel car 18 km/l, good fuel economy from the point of view of the Minister? I think it's over 93 percent. of all cars sold today, which receive a deduction for good petrol economy. It has nothing to do with good petrol economy. If you want to promote a good petrol economy, you have a tax system, which means that it is the cars with the best technology and the most fuel efficient cars that are sold, and that, of course, you phase out those that are at the bottom and then, of course, you take the electric cars, which are the most clean, the most fuel efficient and those with at least CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141214	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141215	Thank you. I don't think the Enhedslisten and the government are in complete agreement. We in the government have the view that there are areas in this country where you can't drive an electric car, because there isn't a barn around the corner like there is here in the capital. It must be possible to carry around, including in the north and west Jutland parts of our country. It has to be said that the only alternative is a cheap passenger car, and a cheap passenger car is often a used car. And if we force these people to drive around an expensive electric car, which they cannot charge, you might do something good for the environment, but you do something bad for the mobility of the Danes. It is important to weigh attention to each other, and that is where I think we weigh a little differently in the government with our green realism than Enhedslisten does. It's a political difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141304	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141306	Thank you. Apart from Tesla and other luxury cars, most electric cars can travel about 150 km on a charge, which is more than 80%. of ordinary people's daily driving needs. It can then be said that the infrastructure that we have developed has been greatly expanded with the help of the industry itself, because they have believed that Denmark is a country that wants the electric cars. So you certainly cannot imagine that they will invest even more billions in this if it goes the other way. What I really want to ask the Minister is: does the Minister think it is reasonable that the tax reduction today is below the average of what a new car can drive per? liters?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141352	Yeah, I think that's fair. I think the agreement we have reached is reasonable. To make a phasing-in over a five-year period for electric cars in the general registration system seems to me quite reasonable. My party's view has been that we should actually make it a little faster. Then there have been some parties that have agreed to the agreement that have moved in the other direction. I think it is fair that we have landed where the small electric cars are not hit very hard, where some of the large electric cars are hit a little harder, as well as large cars being hit harder in our registration fee system, by having a crack in our registration fee. I think it is fair that this parallelity is also reflected in the registration tax on our electric cars. I think it's a fair deal. I think it's a fair place we made the crack, but you could have done it elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141444	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141446	Several of the Minister's own colleagues have been out to say that it was really stupid to make a fixed tax crack as cars go further on the gallon. It should have been made dynamically or found a different model for that. But the Minister's point of departure is that it is not unreasonable to give people money in hand to have a car running shorter per car. Literally than an average car. In any case, there was a funding proposal from among others. SF's side, which more than could have covered what we were talking about. So I do not think it is fair to say that we did not have funding proposals. You've just been politically opposed to it. But the government could find the same amount to make luxury petrol cars cheaper, and that amount could have been spent on electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141533	It is quite true that this proposal has been up on the part of the SF. I fully acknowledge that. We wanted these negotiations to be as fair as possible, and the bill should be as small as possible, when it was now to be financed under the general system of registration fees. As I said, we think that the agreement that is in place is quite reasonable. We can stand by that. That's why I've brought this bill down to Parliament today. And then I fully acknowledge that there have been other funding proposals, among others. on the part of the SF, but it is not someone we have seen this time from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141607	Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141609	First of all, thank you for your statement. I would like to make it a matter of priority, because I very much agree that this is a political priority. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister if it is meaningful to say that when we provide better conditions when buying luxury cars set against providing good conditions for driving green, you can then make a set-up that says that driving green is an investment in the future and maybe actually an investment in some synergies that are in Denmark. It may require some support for a period of time, but it is an investment in something. And when we make good relationships with those who choose to buy a luxury car, but maybe not necessarily missing something, it may be more a perks. I think there is a duality in that one is an investment in something that is part of something more, and the other is an investment in increased quality of life for some, perhaps, but not an investment. Does that make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141703	I can follow the premise and premise of the question, but I do not want to go in as a minister and define why people are buying a large car. There may be different reasons for this. There are some who love cars and buy a car they really can't afford. There are some who see a special value in it. I own a Volkswagen Polo privately, and I do, because I want to drive around cheaply privately in a car that drives a long way on the gallon. It is not, in fact, for environmental reasons. What is important to me has been that I have a low registration fee car. It is not certain that everyone feels that way, so I do not quite buy the premise. However, I agree that when the parties behind the Finance Act choose to say that they spend 0.5 billion. kr. to reduce the registration fee in general rather than tax-free in 2016, this is an indication of priority. Generally speaking, the registration fee would be reduced from 180%. 150 per cent. than for approximately the same amount low tax exemption for electric cars in 2016. Well, it's a matter of priority. You can't get it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141810	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141812	I agree that it may seem silly if the Minister is to stand and define exactly what is the reason for buying one car or another. But when the phase-out is complete, you have a situation where you choose to let it continue to be more lucrative than today to buy someone you could call it a luxury car, or at least a larger car. I'm just thinking, what's that good for? Is it good for our growth in Denmark? I find that hard to see, but it may be that there are some elements I haven't seen. This is not because we have a huge production of cars here. Is there anything in the effort for the green economy that could actually drive something if you got more people driving electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141853	I have the basics as a Liberal and as a Liberal, that people have to buy the car they want. Personally, I feel bad that we are paying so much in registration fees, but I must also say that my task as tax minister is also to guard the state's income. Well, there's gonna be about. 14 billion kr. into the registration fee. Some of the money comes in as a tax on some of the large cars whose percentage tax is high. We will probably not get that done for the time being, but now we have come a step in the right direction with the financial agreement that has been made and the concession that has been made to the Liberal Alliance, and I think that is quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141934	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204141936	The minister calls this a fair deal. I think it would be more fair to call it an unambitious agreement where 160 million are spent. kr. to phase in registration fees on electric cars. We have then achieved the huge result of the changes here that you no longer obtain a deduction for having car radio in a new car. It is fantastic progress that has been made here. I would like to ask the Minister if he could not have gone a few steps further. It has been mentioned that reductions in registration fees, if a petrol car drives just 16 km/l and a diesel car just 18 km/l, are too unambitious. And then we still have a deduction in the registration fee if you have the statutory brakes. I think it seems rather out of date to have a deduction from registration tax if you comply with the requirements of the law and have the brakes that the law requires. Could the Minister not imagine going a little further and having sunk something more in these registration tax rules, which seem so outdated in modern times?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142041	I therefore agree that some of the deductions made in our registration tax system are not adapted to the time we are in. The reason why car radio was deducted was that you could hear when there was an accident on the highway, and now people are sitting with their iPhones and mobile phones and everything else and getting warnings about accidents on the highway. Then you can say that there is no basis for the radio deduction anymore, and the same applies to some of the things that are mentioned. This, of course, has not been borne by the government's desire to make a major change to the registration tax system. It has been borne by the desire to phase the electric cars into the general registration tax system, pick up the bill and meet the challenge that the previous government failed to meet before leaving the government offices. It had been said that a phasing-in into the general registration fee system would be desirable. That is the way I, as Minister of Taxation, have gone to the task. If it were to have been a major reform, some of the things that have been mentioned might have come into play, but that has not been the task and is not the task at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142147	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142150	I would like to call for a slightly more modern approach when it comes to the phasing-in of charges for electric cars. I would like it to be done in a way that would allow electric cars to be loaded at the right times. In my view, it is reasonable for electric car owners to be rewarded if they charge at the times when we have surplus power from our wind turbine production. Then you got the cars to charge at the times when Denmark otherwise sells power to Norway at 7 øre per. kWh. I would urge a lot to look at it with modern eyes and see electric cars as part of a modern energy system where we are going to use more electricity in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142229	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142230	We are happy to take this appeal to the government. I don't think we'll agree with the Enhedslisten. After all, we in the government want to promote private carism, and I believe that Enhedslisten has the view that they want to promote public transport. That is my impression of Enhedslisten's policy. If you have to do something to promote private carism, it must definitely be electric cars. We in the government feel that we have nothing against electric cars, but we want to promote private carism in general. However, we take note of these proposals, and I am sure that we will have the opportunity to discuss them at a later stage during the coming parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142306	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142323	The debate is open. That is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142337	Thank you. The bill that the government is making here is a very small bill, I think, one can say, all the time that it will affect somewhere between 1,000 and 1,500 people. But it is a matter of making it a little cheaper for the commuters to drive over Storebælt by increasing the transport allowance from DKK 90 to DKK 110, and at the same time not here in the bill, but on the part of the government, has been chosen to reduce the cost of commuter cards from DKK 4,000 to DKK 3,000. The bill here costs in isolation approx. 4 million kr. in the absence of tax revenue. That is why it is quite a small bill, but of course significant for the very many people who every day have their driving across Storebælt as part of their work. This is, of course, welcome for the people who are being affected here. At the same time, it can be said that on the other hand, the government has chosen to extend the repayment period on Storebælt, so that the same people will pay for a longer period than they would otherwise have done. But we in the Social Democratic Party can immediately support this bill and look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142455	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142504	It is very important that we have a labour market where there is good mobility, that we have people who want to move a distance to get a job. We have to say that transport costs naturally mean something, and that can be a challenge, because of course it costs more money, and so it is something to be reckoned with when you figure out what you get in wages. This is among other things. also why we have a transport allowance which works generally across the country. It is a very good model we have there because it is good for the labour market. On the whole, a mobile labour market is good, because better mobility also means that we will have better use of labour reserves in this country. One must also just say that there are some special places where there may be a greater challenge, and Storebælt is one of them. That's what this bill is about. That is why it is specifically proposed to increase the deduction for workers crossing Storebælt. Specifically, the deduction from DKK 90 will be increased. for 110 kroner. We think this is an excellent idea on the part of the Danish People's Party, which is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142624	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then it is the rapporteur for the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142631	With this proposal, the Government has taken another step on the way to ensuring Denmark a better balance with mobility and growth opportunities throughout the country. The proposal to increase deductions for commuters over Storebælt makes it more attractive to travel after work. This is needed in a situation where growth is centred on the larger cities. As elected and resident in the Region of Zealand, I can feel the barrier that the costs of the Storebælt Bridge are for the movement of labour. Therefore, it is important that we deliver in connection with our promise to raise the commuter allowance on Storebælt. The intention is that for several Danes it must be worthwhile to seek a job that requires travel across Storebælt. In other words, with this bill, the Left delivers what we have promised in one of our electoral promises. It is worth noting at a time when it is clear that people's confidence in politicians can lie in a small place. In the Left, we are concerned that we can count on what we say and that is why we give priority to fulfilling our electoral vows. Of course, as elected in the Region of Zealand, I am also particularly pleased that there will be a better opportunity to commute over Storebælt. The proposal is part of the 2016 Finance Act and enrolls in the series of actions that include: count for a historic relocation of 3,900 state jobs for the benefit of the whole country and for a growth package that, among other things, proposes a break with rigid rules in the planning law and ensures better broadband coverage. All of this is with balance in mind. Against this background, I can tell you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142810	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142814	I come from South Funen myself, where, unfortunately, we have not received any benefit from these state jobs being relocated. We have just seen that some of them are moving away, i.e. SKAT. So I would like to know: is this supposed to be some sort of Band-Aid on the wound, since you have now placed all the state jobs on the other side of Storebælt, by giving a twenty every time people drive over the bridge?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142840	Now it was the former government that chose to centralise more in the area of taxation. However, I would say that it has been important for us to relocate jobs. After all, we have got jobs for Odense at least, and we have also put emphasis on the fact that it should be easier to commute over Storebælt. That was something we also promised before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142855	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142856	I would like to follow up on a question. Is the rapporteur of the same opinion as the Minister on the previous point, namely that we want to promote private carism? They say you want to give a discount to the commuters. That's actually about $1,100. a month for a car commuter, whereas a train commuter gets 0 DKK. and for comparison with the 110 kroner. has a deduction of DKK 15. to drive over Storebælt. Is this simply the line that the Left is running, namely to promote private carism and get people from trains into cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142932	Now, of course, there has been a clear position in the past that only public transport will be promoted. It must be possible to use both. It should not be the case that only one mode of transport can be used. It must also be the case that if you live in a place where there is not just a train, it must still be possible to commute over Storebælt in order to get a job, and it must pay more than it does today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142953	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204142956	I think that may have been a rather strange answer, because if it is both we would like to help, why would one only in this case take into account those commuters who are so lucky to have a car and not the other commuters who might be low-income families who cannot afford to drive and who have to take the train to get to work? Why the discrimination on the part of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143021	After all, commuting by train has been more attractive for many years. I can understand that. I'm commuting by train myself. I think it is nice to commute by train, but it should also be possible to commute by car, and so commuting opportunities have been unequal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143030	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143031	If you look at the overall price of buying and using cars and the trend in the prices of public transport, you see that it has gone exactly the opposite of what the rapporteur says. Then you see a sharp increase in the cost of public transport, while it has become cheaper to buy a car, cheaper to drive a car. So I'm having a hard time recognizing that picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143055	Once we adopt the bill we have today on lowering registration fees, we have a registration fee of 150 per cent, while public transport is heavily supported. I think it is positive that we have a public transport system. I support that, but not everyone has the opportunity to use it, and that is why everyone should be able to go to different places. That is certainly our intention, of course, we cannot ensure it. However, our intention is that as many people as possible can transport themselves to get a job, and that is why we think it is positive that people have the opportunity to have a car and the opportunity to transport themselves. And now it's better to drive over Storebælt to get a job. We think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143128	No one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143142	As we have heard, the bill in isolation provides that the deduction for drivers will be DKK 20. more every time you pass the bridge. But the government is also proposing to lower the price for those who commute over Storebælt by car. It is presented as part of the government's growth plan, so overall, when you drive a car every day over the bridge, you get a discount of DKK 1,100. a month. It is well known that the government is trying to manage many things and much through economic incentives. This applies to everything from available jobs for the unemployed to whether refugees should now set course for Helsinge, Helsingborg or Helsinki. In these cases, the whip and less money have been used as an incentive. Now the trip has come to the car owners, and there the carrot has been found. It is a good thing that the government would like to give an incentive to look for work on the other side of Storebælt, but the train commuters are so cheated here. They don't get a discount on the ticket price or an increase in deductions. Reductions for train commuters over Storebælt are compared to the 110 DKK. only 15 kroner. Thus, the deduction is not just a carrot to seek work on the other side of Storebælt. There is also a carrot to replace trains with the private car, and it is quite wrong according to Enhedslisten's view. A trip over Storebælt will typically derive two to three times as much CO2 We have noticed that the government continues to participate in the climate negotiations and has not completely resigned, but it has now also been noted, as others have said here before, that the government is in the process of lowering climate ambitions and that a price has already been collected as today's climate villain down in Paris. But we do not hope that the government has taken the view that it is going to come home with as much as possible of that kind of price. Because when the government generally zealously turns on all sorts of handles and thumb screws to give people incentives, you are also aware that you give the commuters an incentive to increase CO2 It happens when you give an incentive to change trains by car. The unit list cannot support an increased deduction for commuters over Storebælt, which applies only to drivers. If we are to support this proposal, an increased deduction must of course also apply to rail commuters, and that is why we intend to table amendments in the next reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143411	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143422	The comments to L 64 state that the government considers that there is a need to improve incentives to commute across Denmark. We in the Liberal Alliance fully agree with that. The bill increases the deduction for motorists and motorcyclists when crossing the Storebælt Bridge from DKK 90. for 110 kroner. per crossing. This is a relaxation that we in the Liberal Alliance naturally accept. But, and there is one but: The whole system we build up in Denmark with towering taxes and then a network of deductions, we are fundamentally opposed. We prefer a simpler system in which we simply charge fewer taxes... the benefit is that citizens can decide for themselves what to spend their money on... instead of a system where the state with weights and trisses will regulate how much we call the craftsmen, drive over the bridge, buy an electric car, buy a hybrid car, etc. Less of it, more freedom and more growth, please. The Liberal Alliance is in favour of this proposal because everything else is moving in the right direction. As the government rightly writes in the comments, the proposal will have a positive effect on business. There will therefore be good music in making a much greater relaxation of the bridge charge, which will increase mobility, reduce costs for businesses and increase incentives for individuals in relation to looking for jobs on the other side of the bridge. And then we want to sit down with the government and find out how we can put in place a plan for dismantling the toll. It doesn't make much sense, and certainly not at these times, that you can roam right across the border between Germany and Denmark, while we have some sort of border and tax boom between Funen and Zealand. Easing the toll is good for mobility in Denmark and good for growth. We start here, and in the Liberal Alliance we are ready to do much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143606	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143611	Generally speaking, this is a very good proposal, we think in the alternative, and we would like to support it. But there is the bias that Enhedslisten has pointed out, and we simply do not see an opportunity to go into a legislative proposal which in this way completely neglects public transport. It has been said earlier today that public transport has been massively supported. That's not how I think about it anymore, because now I have a free pass that allows me to travel by train for free. But I must admit that I thought a lot about it earlier, also when I worked from Jutland and drove to Copenhagen. There were all kinds of good reasons not to take the train • it could be flexibility, it could be the whole feeling of having calm and peace to do your thing or sit and relax. So there's a difference between taking a train and taking a car. And then I think we should bear in mind that the direction in which we would like to push Denmark starts with such a proposal here. So if we were to join, it should be because they then said that at least they went in and gave the same advantage to those who drive public transport. It could be the same percentage. That is not to make it odd for drivers at least to take public transport into the equation. Then I also think, when I look at the answers to the hearings, that the FTF goes in and says that they also recommend that public transport should be included. So it is not such a completely green-forced thinking that comes from here on our side. It is right and proper, according to the views of many. I also find it interesting that, in the way you want to finance it, it is highlighted that there will also be increased incomes on increased fuel consumption, and at least it screams a little, in relation to what we stand for. So we are going to table amendments to the effect that we can bring public transport with us. I very much hope that you will continue to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143803	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143811	I mean, with your hand at heart, this is not the biggest bill we have dealt with here in the Danish Parliament. One might be tempted to say that this is pepper nut treatment, namely 3 million. kr., which we need to spend time on to give a 20 in tax exemption to drivers over Storebælt. That is not a major policy, I would like to start by saying that. And that's why it's hard to swing up to one hundred percent against or against. We always have a lot of sympathy for it, but in principle we do not know whether it is here that money is needed. And I actually agree with what several rapporteurs have said: why make differences between commuters depending on whether they drive a car or a train? We would also like to see that the commuters on trains at least got the same thing, so that people do not differ from their mode of transport. So this is also something we want to pursue in committee and will mean a little bit of how we end up looking at this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143911	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143925	I'll be brief. We share the view of several of the other rapporteurs that it is unreasonable to make differences between private drivers and rail passengers. So we could consider voting in favour if the Minister would be willing to look at it. Otherwise we will have to vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143947	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204143954	The Conservative People's Party is very positive about the proposal. The more mobility in the Danish society the better, the more barriers we can break down the logistical, physical and transport systems the better. Danish society needs us to be more flexible and more mobile. It is good for jobs and it is good for families. So we can support the proposal without hesitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144021	There is one brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144023	I would just like to hear the opinion of the Conservative People's Party on the proposal made by several parties and rapporteurs that rail commuters and car commuters should be treated on an equal footing and that the same subsidy should be given to rail commuters.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144042	It is the Conservative People's Party in the best of all worlds positive towards it, but the Conservative People's Party is not such an all-or-nothing party. We take the treats that we can get and the positive things that we can contribute. There is a good proposal from the government. By the way, it is part of the financial law agreement, so we are, of course, behind the proposal, but we would have done so too, even if we were not part of the financial law agreement. If, next year, a concrete proposal is put on the table with regard to funding, so that conditions for rail commuters will also improve, then we are very positive about it. We don't care what mode of transport one chooses as a commuter. We would like to support the mobility of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144125	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144128	I would, of course, like to sign for the last remarks here. There will clearly be proposals on this; it is certainly • if nothing else then from my own party. But I would just like to arrest what the rapporteur says, because, as the radical rapporteur said, this is really about peppers. So from just taking what you can get now, it doesn't take the very big step to say: okay, let's put rail commuters and car commuters on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144207	I totally agree. I mean, I'm not helping to oversell this proposal. I think the government itself has done so abundantly. It's peanuts. By the way, I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard of the Radical Left and Mr. Henning Hylllested. Well, that's not what's rocking anything. But the fact that the commuter allowance is increased by DKK 20 does also make it possible to read from the notes that, if you commute more than half of the month, it will be an attractive business to use that deduction. So, of course, we are taking all good steps in the right direction, but I fully agree that we should not oversell this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144244	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144254	First of all, thank you for the brief but still thorough discussion of the draft law and also the largely positive reception from at least a majority of parties in the Parliamentary Assembly. After all, the bill is part of the government's proposal for growth and development throughout Denmark, and although it is true that it may not be what revolutionises things, it is one of a number of measures that offers better opportunities for citizens throughout Denmark and ensures better accessibility also throughout Denmark. And the increase in the bridge allowance must be seen in connection with the fact that we also lower the price of the driver's commuter card to the Storebælt connection from 3,920 DKK. for 3,000 kroner. When you live in the countryside, distances are often a challenge, because transport time and transport costs can be a barrier. And the toll, which must be paid to pass the Storebælt Bridge, is seen as a barrier to looking for work on the other side of the bridge. Lower transport costs make commuting more attractive, thus allowing more people to get or retain jobs while staying where they now live. So the bill thus contributes to • although I acknowledge that it does not revolutionize anything • to create a greater balance and coherence between parts of the country in Denmark. So I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place and, of course, I am answering any questions that may be raised during the committee's proceedings. And I can say to those who may ask whether it may be that the question is still coming why this does not apply to public transport, that the reason is that there are very large subsidies to DSB in advance, and we from the government have wanted to do something for drivers. That is why we are proposing to relax only in the one way proposed by the draft law. Then I would say to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, I do not think this is a pepper nut proposal. But I would like to say more that it is a Christmas present for the commuters. And I think some of them will be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144511	There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144512	I would just like to ask briefly whether it would be attractive for the Minister to give the public transport and those who use it nothing violent, but just the same advantage in terms of deductions as the drivers. In that case, I would certainly say that it was something else to give the money to DSB than to give it to its citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144544	That's right. You can choose to give the money to DSB in the form of larger subsidies, you can also choose to screw the deduction screw. The government chooses neither. To this extent we want to promote the commuting over the Storebælt Bridge, which is why this is what we have chosen. True, you could choose to do other things, but that would require greater funding. I think I have given an answer to the Committee on Transport that it costs 3 million. kr. Of course, it can be said that it is peppers and nothing, but 3 million. kr. is 3 million. kr., and that's why the government has decided to stop here. However, it should not be held by other parties if the funding can otherwise be found from transferring it to public transport. However, we have just said that such large subsidies are being granted in advance that we do not think that this creates a disproportionate imbalance between the two modes of transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144631	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144632	But can there not be anything about the fact that perhaps these peppers are the ones that mean a little more to some of those who go by train than to those who drive by car? I fully agree that it is not a common or completely unambiguous picture, that those who drive the train have less money and means than those who drive a car, it would be quite wrong to say, but on the other hand I think there are many who sit and watch, who will probably think that it is not pepper nuts in their daily lives, whether they received an extra deduction on their train tickets back and forth. So could one at least say that you would give the same conditions to those who drive public transport as to those who drive by car over Storebælt?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144707	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144707-2	You might want the same support for the different modes of transport. In that case, we would have to support air traffic massively in this country. We don't, and I'm not sure we should. I am happy to go into that discussion, but it is a little wider. There is discrimination between public transport, private car and aircraft, and with this proposal there is a slightly greater discrimination between people driving across Storebælt by car and people driving over by train. I think that is perfectly fair when you look at the overall picture still, and that is why the government is only going to do what we do, among other things. has promised, namely with regard to private carism over Storebælt.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144751	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144752	The Minister says, in line with what other rapporteurs have said, that this is not a revolution. No, it is not, but it is very much symbolic policy. The Minister also says that you want to do something for the drivers and that it is really a Christmas present for the commuters. Yes, it is not for that part of the commuters, and after all, many of them also take the train. In comparison, it could be pointed out that the government has started in this area with the removal of 300 million. kr. from DSB, and if the Minister is asking for funding, he could of course reduce the theft from DSB by the very few million, it would also cost to bring the train commuters in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144839	But the money still has to come from somewhere. It's not like it's a theft from the DSB. After all, it's an agreement made with DSB's board of directors that they should deliver a little more to the state. It helps to finance a number of other things. Of course, you can choose to change it if that is what you want, but that is what a majority of parties have agreed in relation to the Finance Act, and I can fully stand by it. We've wanted to do something for the commuters, and we do. After all, it's not that much money in dollars and ear, but it does mean quite a lot. This has to be seen in the context of the price of the driver's commuter card being lowered by almost DKK 1,000. a month. Some people will feel that, and this will increase mobility across parts of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144932	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204144934	But then this will also be symbol politics. And it does so to a great extent in relation to the environment and climate, because this is a clear signal to promote a mode of transport which causes major environmental and climate problems due to CO2 So, with these very selective proposals, we are promoting a mode of transport which gives us problems with the environment and climate, and we are then under-priority in reality very, very clearly: it is symbol policy: that mode of transport, that is, the collective mode of transport, that is to say, the train driving, which is precisely good against the increasing climate and environmental problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145022	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145023	I simply do not agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Henning Hyllested in that you will be able to read it here in the Danish emissions of CO2 I already doubt how much difference there is in reality between the emissions from DSB's quite diesel consuming old train and a new car. It could also be a driver in an electric car who drove over the Storebælt Bridge, who benefited from this. I don't think you can count on it to make a difference in that way. It makes a difference to those people who are now receiving a higher commuter allowance that they can cheaper drive across our parts of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145058	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145059	I hope, then, that the Minister for Transport is aware of the fact that there are calculations on how much CO2 it is so widely known. There are two or three times more CO2 so I just want to hear: when there is talk of balance, is it a good balance that you will now give a grant of up to 160 DKK each time a commuter runs over the bridge, when it also has to trigger a greater deduction? The argument that rail commuters should not receive a deduction is that they receive a subsidy, but the car commuters are now receiving a huge subsidy compared to the normal price of DKK 235. to drive over Storebælt.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145146	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145146-2	Well, I recognize that you make the difference bigger. But we fully believe that we can stand by that goal. And I recognise that there may be a difference between CO2 there are little polluting aircraft, there are very polluting aircraft, there are little polluting cars, there are very polluting cars. I am merely saying that I know that the old IC3 trains running on diesel are polluting quite a lot. That is why I do not believe that any climate effect, positive or negative, of this proposal will actually be possible. It is fair enough to put forward the point of view, but I do not think it makes much sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145229	No one else has asked for brief comments to the Minister, so thank you to the Minister for Taxation. No one else has asked for the floor at all, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145230	The debate has been opened, and the first in the series of rapporteurs is Mr Cryer. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145310	Thank you. Workplaces that is the Social Democrats' main argument to support this bill, in which we repeal the law on advertising fees that was agreed in the context of the 2012 Finance Act but is not yet in effect, as we have waited for the approval of the European Commission. According to the consultation answer from HK/Privat and the employers in the graphics industry, the bill will save hundreds of jobs for unskilled workers working in distribution, production and transport, skilled printers and children and young people employed as advertisers. According to the government, the bill will secure 100 jobs permanently. When the advertising tax was adopted, it was to strengthen environmental efforts. In the original calculations from autumn 2012, it was assumed that the basis of the tax would be approx. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With the tax it was estimated that the amount of household advertisements would decrease to approx. 145,000 in 2013. However, it has been found that the volume of household advertisements was only approx. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Actually, 80%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of medicinal products for human use. It was against this background that the Social Democratic and Radical Government earlier this year proposed to dismantle the advertising tax as part of our growth initiatives, and that is why we are, of course, quite pleased that the current Left Government is putting forward this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145441	There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145445	Of course, we have also been very concerned about the debate that has taken place on jobs. But there is one thing that puzzles me a little, and this is all about the fact that if the number of tons of printed advertising cases has fallen so significantly, it must have had a consequence for graphic jobs as well. So it was so afraid that it would bring down the number of printed matter to introduce this tax, but the number of printed matter has actually decreased even more. That may be something I have misunderstood, but it sounds as if the rapporteur thinks it is positive, and I think we see that as well, even though 128 000 tonnes are of course also a certain amount of advertising printed matter. But is it still the rapporteur's wish that this might actually be the question that we should see a continued decline in the volume of advertising in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145546-2	I wouldn't mind, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145551	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145553	Does the rapporteur have any ideas on how we could address this? After all, in the process that has been going on, we have tried to see if we could find any other proposals. Unfortunately, the EU's rules, which so often prevented us from making demands in this way, compared to some of the world's best printing plants in Denmark, have been the most environmentally efficient printing works in the world. Something that is proposed in one of the consultation answers is, among other things, that of the Commission. this one with an advertising yes-thank you scheme instead of an advertising no-thank you scheme, which would probably have an effect. What does the rapporteur's party say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145634	I will not be able to answer that here, unfortunately. On the question of whether I have any ideas, the answer is: No, but I would say that in relation to the ideas that come on the table, we will attach great value to it, whether it has implications for employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145648	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145649	I would just like to say that I am happy today and, above all, glad that, after years of hammering and knocking on the door of the Socialists, it has finally succeeded in making the Socialists realise that the advertising tax was a mistake, that it was an end and that it should never have seen the light of day. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145713	I am incredibly pleased that the rapporteur of the Left is happy today. The rapporteur of the Left could also have taken the liberty of being happy in the spring when we ourselves put forward ideas for phasing out the advertising tax. So that's six months of joy. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145728	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145730	I'm not that happy. We have lost a referendum, but at least this is a Band-Aid on the wound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145737	I have no comment to make on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145741	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204145749	As the previous rapporteur said, this is about abolishing the advertising tax, a tax which never came into force. It is now being proposed to be abolished. We are very happy about this in the Danish People's Party, because we have been opposed to the tax right from the start. Indeed, many of us, even when it was introduced, had anticipated that it would probably have to be abolished again. Because there have been several countries which have tried to introduce an advertising tax, but all of them have had to abolish it again, including the United Kingdom. Because it has been a distortion of competition. The purpose of the tax at that time was to have fewer advertisements, which should, of course, result in less paper waste and thus a better environment. However, as was also mentioned by the previous rapporteur, the amount has decreased more than was provided for in the old legislation, even with the tax. So there are so many reasons for abolishing this law, and the first one I want to mention is precisely that of the quantity. In 2013, it was expected that there would be a paper quantity of 153,000 tonnes. If you introduced the tax and it was allowed to work, which then it did not reach, then it would have done that you had come down to 145,000 tonnes. In the meantime, however, market developments made it possible to end up at 128,500 tonnes. This was therefore a much greater reduction, even without a tax. It may be that it can give inspiration to other areas, that only by threatening a tax can one get quite a lot of behavior regulation. However, it has certainly become apparent that the tax has been superfluous if one has wanted to have a reduction in the volume of advertising. It must be said that market forces themselves have also led to initiatives which have enabled it to be resolved in other ways without tax, for example. with what's called a No Tak+ scheme. Many advertisements have begun to come via digital media. Among other things: On your iPad and elsewhere you can get Bilkas or Kvickly's newspaper, or whatever it may be, which I also think many Danes appreciate. So there have been some digital opportunities which have become more widespread and which mean that there will automatically be a fall, even without a tax. A third thing I would like to mention, which is a minus in the tax, is that it has given less price transparency and less price transparency will lead to less competition, and worse competition typically leads to more expensive products. One last point I would like to mention is probably one of the important things that has led the previous government to realise that it had to be abolished, namely that it had to be abolished, among other things. has been a major issue with the fact that it was very distorting to competition and that it affected various media very differently and was therefore also very difficult to handle. I can only mention that there was a huge difference between how weekly newspapers and newspapers were affected by the tax. For example: was an advertising press, which was an entry in a household newspaper free of charge, with tax, but the corresponding advertising press was taken as an entry in a free newspaper distributed at a train station, so it was free of charge, or if the same advertising press was just distributed in a shop, it was also free of charge. So there were a lot of competitive things that were not very appropriate. Finally, I can say that this bill is part of the Finance Act, which has just been agreed on by the Danish People's Party. So, in addition to the fact that we have been opposed to the tax all the way through, we can of course also endorse the bill, because it is part of an agreement that we are part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150132	Today, one of the only socialist fingerprints that Enhedslisten got through under the previous government is being wiped away. This is about the advertising fee for household advertisements, which is a tax that has never been more than an ideologically conditional attack on private business and on commercial freedom of expression, which is at least as important in a free society as political freedom of expression. What are ads? Advertisements are communication from company to consumer. Advertisements inform and help the consumer get the best product at the cheapest price. Advertising stimulates growth and prosperity. We love to hate advertising, and we hate to love advertising, and deep down we know that advertising works. When you come from a party that wants to remove advertising, profit and private property, I understand that you want to introduce taxes on advertising. But it is incomprehensible to me that the Social Democrats and the Radical Left joined the Red Crusade of Enhedslisten against advertising. Moreover, the advertising tax is also unfairly combined. Political parties, for example, should: We find it difficult to introduce laws that affect ourselves too, so Enhedslisten could continue to leave free propaganda in the mailbox of unspoken voters who could not even say no. But advertising such as this one. The Christmas catalog from Cousin BR and I was supposed to greet and say a great deal more cheerful in Danish homes than political leaflets. And it was not only the Christmas catalogue, but also something as peaceful as Christmas cards that risked having to pay taxes. There were also other built-in peculiarities in the law. For example: magazines and weekly newspapers were not to pay taxes, but monthly newspapers were to pay taxes. Household-divided advertising for cultural services such as: Theaters and venues had to pay tax, but the very same cultural offer did not pay the tax if it was an evening school that stood as the organizer. Fortunately, a broad alliance was succeeded, with the participation of among others. the trade union movement to make the Social Democrats understand that a tax is an extremely bad idea, which dampens private consumption, leads to higher prices in the retail trade and costs good Danish jobs. Fortunately, the advertising tax never came into force. However, it was never formally abolished, and the proceeds, which the tax would more or less theoretically bring, were apparently not available by any other means by the previous government. During the Finance Law negotiations, the Left Government has now managed to obtain the lack of funding, and now we can put the final nail in the coffin and bury the advertising fee forever and ever. We pay the bill that the Red Government left behind. We fulfil another election promise and send a Christmas present to Danish business, Danish consumers and Danish workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150429	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150431	I would like to ask the rapporteur if one could equate having a digital mailbox with having a physical mailbox. I myself am from the advertising industry and am a commercial textwriter and must acknowledge a very, very humorous speech that at least made me smile. I'm thinking that it sounds like advertising is only of the good. At any rate, advertising is not only evil, but I wonder if one could imagine that one would also have a permit, an authorisation, an agreement that one should receive advertising in one's mailbox, in other words a so-called 'yes' system? Would that be something that the rapporteur might think was sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150508	There are problems, among others. EU law, by introducing such a system. But the real reason why we in the Left are against this is now more that we have a system that works quite well. We have a no-thank-you scheme, and then we have even got a No Thanks+ scheme, so that the rapporteur, for example, can choose to receive the advertisements he wants and can say no to the advertisements he does not want. So the market itself has found a very good solution, and no one is interested in sending out advertisements to people who do not read them. Then you can target your adverts and only send them to those who actually want them, so it is, of course, that you achieve the best possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150549	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150550	I think that there are a lot of people who want to send out advertisements to people who do not want to have them. We see it digitally with spam mails that generate all sorts of profit. That is why I would just like to say: could it not be imagined that instead of drawing up the lines as hard as I think it is being done in relation to the Enhedslisten here, it may well be that this legislation is crooked and therefore needs to be changed, but then go into a debate that one should not just learn that advertising is only of the good, and that one can therefore think about whether it is, as it is illegal today, to send mails to someone who has not asked for it, with advertisements, could be interesting to agree with the business community, whether we should try to introduce it properly • so in the same way as we do it digitally in real life, where it is actually not legal to send large-scale material with advertisements to people who have not asked for it at least?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150640	Now there is the huge difference between email advertisements and physical advertisements that email advertisements can be sent virtually for free in very, very large editions. And that does mean that if we didn't have a rule like that when we talk about digital advertising, then our email mailboxes would explode. Different is the case with physical advertisements. There is a very, very simple way to avoid them by getting a sticker you can put on your mailbox so you don't get the ads. If it ain't Broke don't fix it, as they say in English, and we have a very good arrangement. I see no reason to introduce new ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150717	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150719	Now I could understand from the previous debate that the rapporteur of the Left has a rather sad day today on top of yesterday's referendum. It is also bitter when one has put the effort into it that the people choose something else. But I must also say that the rapporteur really does come up in the red in relation to Enhedslisten's efforts on this. I can reassure you that when Enhedslisten was in favour of this tax, it was not due to opposition to private property rights or anything else; it was due to a simple concern about our environment, a concern which the government unfortunately does not share or at least does not take seriously, namely the huge amount of advertising press charges, which are a huge environmental impact, even if we have reached 128 000. So I can easily understand all the lirumlarum that the rapporteur brings, about growth and consumer information, etc. and so on, but could the rapporteur not just make a few comments on the environmental problem of advertising? I understand that we have different priorities, but we have to deal with the negative side of the medal too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150830	I mean, if you were really so concerned about the environment in the Enhedslisten, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is trying to express itself, so you could, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances. However, the environmental impact of paper printing is far, far less than many people think. It is very, very visible, but firstly, the paper is recycled, by far most of it, and secondly, the trees that are used to produce the paper are not rainforest trees, as some people run around and think they are trees that are replanted. It's no worse to use a tree than to use some grain in a field. It is simply replanted. And the very stress of the printing process in Danish printing works, which is for the most part swan-marked or flower-marked, i.e. the eco-label, is also quite limited. Of course there is a certain environmental impact in printing advertising, just as there is printing books, but I think it is good with books and I think it is good with advertising and therefore I do not understand why you want to tax it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150934	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204150936	Now I believe that the printing of printed material by the Left in this referendum was considerably larger than that of the Enhedslisten, even though it did not have the desired effect. However, one of the points raised by the rapporteur is also that the European Union has set foot in this area. Why should the European Union interfere in how we organise our rules and what requirements we make, in order to ensure that, if we are to have this level of advertising, it must at least be done in the most environmentally sustainable way?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151012	Yes, yes, but now I am not the one who is hypocritical of some giant concern for the environment, which I myself am not willing to live out in the real world. We are not saying that we are against printed matter or advertising for that matter in the interests of the environment. On the question of the European Union: Well, one of the objectives of the European Union is to ensure that we have a free internal market with competition on equal terms. And there were a number of problems with the advertising tax that went in and discriminated between different types of companies. This was one of the reasons why the advertising tax could not be passed in the EU, just as it had been put forward, but that some changes were necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151055	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151112	It is, of course, nice to have such an ideological debate in this very afternoon. I would like to begin by denying the rapporteur from the Left's dream that this advertising tax was the only socialist fingerprint that Enhedslisten was given. You've been good at finding them, I'd say, and removing them, but this isn't the only thing. If you look at the draft budget, you can see that it is almost one long catalogue of the abolition of socialist fingerprints, or you could also call it equality-building, green, solidarity-based fingerprints; that is the reality, I would say to the rapporteur. It is true that we in the Enhedslisten have been working for many years to limit the amount of advertising printed matter, and we have thought this was important because large quantities of these printed matter are a significant environmental impact, both in relation to the process of printing them, and in relation to application and so on. etc. That is why we have supported these opportunities that have come to say no thank you and now there is also No Thank you+ and it has had a positive impact, but there is still a very high consumption of advertising printed matter in Denmark. That is why it is true that one of the green fingerprints that we helped to put on the first Finance Act, which we adopted, we have been involved in adopting a few more measures, this was a tax on advertising printed matter, which unfortunately never came into force, both because of a number of stumbles from the European Union, but probably because some problems arose and because the government at that time might have been a little reluctant to implement it here. After all, there has been some discussion of this proposal and we have also met the criticism, not least from the graphics sector and from the trade unions which are organizing the employees in this area. They have feared the relocation of jobs from Denmark as a result of this, which in the end will also lead to a worse environmental record. So if the same amount of advertising printed matter were printed in Poland or Lithuania, we would still have the same extent, but the environmental impact would be greater and we have listened to that, and we have also tried to see if we could find solutions. The problem is that what we have been talking about, and as so often happens, is the EU's rules that have stood in the way. We have not had to impose the environmental requirements that we would like, environmental requirements that could have ensured that it was indeed some of the printing works with environmental expertise that we have in Denmark that we have some of the most environmentally efficient printing plants in the world • that could get this task. We have also tried to find other solutions, and in the discussions with the previous government we have been actually open to the fact that if we could find solutions that reduced the scope, we would also be prepared to look at dropping this advertising tax. One of the things that there among others... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the hearings which have been mentioned by several speakers, the possibility of introducing a 'yes' to advertising is a possibility. As the rapporteur from the Alternative, I think it is very correct to point out: why are we allowed to receive unbridled quantities of spam in our physical mailbox? Why are we not allowed to choose for ourselves what we receive in our mailbox? Why is it that we should not say 'yes' actively? But we can then hear from up here that it is apparently also the EU's rules that stand in the way of it, and I think that is worth taking note of that. Because it is not so rare for the EU rules to stand in the way when we discuss environmental policy and our ability to take sensible action in this area. Now we are simply abolishing the advertising tax without taking any other initiatives, and we cannot support it on the part of the Enhedslisten, which is why we are also voting against it. But we welcome three things that have come out of this lengthy process. First of all, in connection with the advertising tax, we had a slightly higher green base deduction introduced. It is not of a princely scale, but it does benefit the very poorest Danes, and fortunately it exists even if the advertising tax is abolished. Secondly, we closed a VAT hole, which was used to print Danish magazines abroad and thus avoid Danish tax. This has really been an advantage in maintaining jobs in Denmark. I do not know how the rapporteur of the Left felt about it. Thirdly, there has been a voluntary agreement between trade unions and employers' organisations in the graphic field to try to improve environmental standards in Danish printing works for advertising printed matter. So, with these comments, I can only say that we do not support the proposal in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151620	The advertising tax has always been a crazy idea, which stems from the very imaginative basis for tax printing that we have in Denmark. The idea arises from an equally strong desire to collect taxes and apply them to public affairs. If you charge very high taxes, it means that activities that would otherwise take place stop or move somewhere else. That is why new taxes must be invented when the tax base disappears and so on. Thus, with the advertising tax: collecting advertising tax in a globalised and digitalised world simply does not make much sense, and the Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151703	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151712	Once again, I would like to emphasise that we must of course look at the smaller operators, the printing works, who have seen that this was a hard one when it was implemented, well in the cards and then say: OK, that was not what was meant to be. That is why I think it is commendable that the government should go in and change things in this area and see what can be done. Conversely, I would also like to say that the rapporteur on the Left's speech just before proved very well why we are not really going to be able to be positive about this anyway, because it is something about thinking that there is an opportunity to meet somewhere. That possibility I'm thinking is non-existent here. It's just too far, compared to what we think we can do on this point together. But to say yes to what might be sensible, given that it was wrong legislation that was waiting because we expect something better to come, we cannot, because it is simply too far away, think that there is something better on the environmental side right now. That is why we have to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151814	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151822	As the Socialist rapporteur pointed out, the then SR government itself would also remove those taxes, such as: because we had reached the goal by other means. On the other hand, it can be said that it is also a goal of the Radical Left to put an end to the environmental problems which may be associated with household advertising. There has been a proposal from the Alternative on how to do it, and other things could certainly be done. And then we're a little bit unsure how the government finances the money that's gonna pay this tax exemption. Perhaps the Secretary of State can make us a little more clever when he gets on the platform, because it will certainly also have an impact on how we deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151913	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, whom I can see has been very clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204151928	First of all, I would like to acknowledge to the advertising industry that a great deal has happened in a number of years. I myself have also visited several printing works and, as other rapporteurs also mentioned, there have been major developments in relation to paper recycling, environmental certification and so on. I think that is actually quite impressive. It's still just huge quantities we get in the mailbox. I even have such a 'no' to the advertising mark, but no one seems to respect that, but that is a different discussion. I think it would be good if we could have an active yes-than-you scheme. I really think the government should discuss this with the European Union because it is a large amount of paper. I think it is fine if you really want to receive them, but it should therefore be the case that you should opt for it and not actively opt out of it. And despite the great progress that has been made, there is still an environmental impact. There we have a charging system that in many ways tries to compensate for some of the things in our society that affect our environment and our environment. Before the summer holidays, we were prepared by the SF to look at the advertising tax if it could be included in a larger solitaire and we could, as it were, have something else in a package that could have a positive impact on the environment. Unfortunately, that is not the situation we are facing today, and we cannot therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152111	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152119	At least in the past, creativity has not known any limits to the launch of grotesque, baroque, crazy tax proposals, and the advertising tax law clearly belongs in that category. For what is an advertising fee? An advertising tax is, after all, a tax on advertising. An advertising tax is a distortion of competition and an advertising tax will cost jobs everything else equally. Its purpose was to reduce the environmental impact by not sending out the printed matter. But what are the realities? The reality is that the number of advertising printing cases has declined dramatically since both volume and volume. And that shows that the market is working. New technology has meant that we get information in different ways, especially via the Internet. Stores also choose to concentrate their marketing more on certain areas and target groups, so it works without the need for such a tax. The tax met massive criticism from all actors in the case, which meant that there was a risk of losing relatively many jobs in the graphic sector and that customers risked higher prices because there was no price comparability in relation to the information provided as a customer in such an advertising press. At the same time, it was a distortion of competition in relation to the various forms of distribution. That is why Conservatives are very pleased that with the Finance Act we are helping to remove the advertising tax. It ensures more Danish jobs, it gives more competition, and it gives more informed consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152313	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Henning Hyllested does not want the floor. All right, then no one has asked for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152325	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for your agreement to the draft law. The government wants to make it cheaper and easier to operate in Denmark. That is why I am also pleased that, as part of the financial agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, we have agreed to cancel the previous government's advertising tax before it enters into force. The abolition of the advertising tax means that companies are now assured that the tax will not be introduced. This will be of benefit to industry and, in particular, to the printing industry. Then, as some have said, we can in the meantime welcome the fact that the volume of household advertisements has already fallen sharply, even though the tax has never entered into force. In addition to the threat of the tax, this may be due to the major developments in digital marketing and opportunities for more targeted advertising. And in its quiet mind, as a bourgeois Left Treasure Minister, one can at least also welcome the fact that this case is another example of the fact that when we invent new strange taxes, they are hard to get to work as intended. We can, of course, if we like to look back on some of what the former VK government made up of, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It has not worked as intended, and either it has not happened or it has been rolled back, and I think that is an important lesson to take with it, that is to say that we should not come up with new taxes and taxes. It's not my wish as a tax minister. My wish is to abolish taxes and duties. That is why I am also pleased that we can abolish the advertising tax here today, even if it has never entered into force. I look forward, of course, to the further consideration of the draft law and any questions that the parties of the Folketing may have. If I am going to make a single comment on the debate that has taken place, in addition to what I have said, this is a request for a 'yes' to advertising, and I can understand that wish. As I have been informed, in 2012 the Ministry of Business and Growth examined the possibility of introducing a "yes' to advertising, and in this respect the Ministry of Business and Growth was in contact with the European Commission, which considered that the scheme would be contrary to EU law, as it would restrict foreign supermarket chains from advertising to Danish consumers. That is why it is not the policy of this government to introduce a 'yes' to advertising. If there are some of the parties in the Danish Parliament who want to ask the European Commission again, of course something may have happened over the last four years; however, I do not think so, I am sure that my ministry or the Ministry of Business and Growth will once again make contact and have it examined. However, I do not believe that legislation has changed and, therefore, such a system is likely to be contrary to EU law, and therefore it is not the government's policy to introduce it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152642	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152645	I would like us not to stand there with our hat in our hands and ask the European Commission what is not their concern at all, namely how we organise our environmental protection here in Denmark; what Danish consumers can expect. Why should the European Union interfere in this? That is exactly the kind of detailed regulation that makes many Danes so tired of that EU. Why does the Minister think it is reasonable for the EU to interfere in whether we are introducing a yes-than-you regime here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152718	I'm gonna give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152721	I believe that the Enhedslisten is sometimes also pleased with what is being achieved in the European Union. I note that when it comes to green renewable energy and climate, you are very pleased with the European Community and that we are actively working together on it. I believe that being part of the European Union is to be part of a community of good and bad. And one of the main objectives of the European Community is to ensure equal competition, and it is from the point of view of equal competition that consumers benefit, it benefits citizens, it creates better prices. I should not be able to say what is at the root of the immediate EU assessment and whether it would be contrary to EU law, but there may be some equality in competition that can play a role. And I think it is quite fair that the European Union should interfere in how we organise parts of our Danish legislation if it leads to, for example. less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less competition, less
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152823	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152825	We are, of course, a little off the discussion. So what I have to understand is that when the Left talks about a slimmer EU, it is not where it is about competition. That is where the European Commission must decide exactly what they want. Then they must prevent us in yes-thank you regulations and bans on dangerous chemistry and everything else. It is only when it comes to such things as social rights that the EU should be slimmer. Otherwise, they just have to get involved. Is that how the Left understands a slimmer EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152852	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152853	Now it will be a little outside of what is really on the agenda, but I think that the lesson of yesterday's referendum is that the Danes are frustrated by some of the European project. I believe that most of the basics support all the good things that we stand together on in the Community, but some of the things that come from Brussels do not agree. And perhaps we should also be better able to explain some of this on the political side and take on the responsibility that goes with it, and we are happy to do so in the Left. We do not believe that the European Union should be able to argue in favour of everything on the grounds of free and equal competition or the free movement of workers. Of course, there must be limits to this. However, as I have said, I do not believe that we have anything to do with the assessment of a yes-than-you system in question. We think that the no-thank-you scheme is really, really fine, and we can continue to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204152941	No one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one has asked for the floor at all, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153001	The debate has been opened, and the first in the series of rapporteurs is Mr Cryer. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153015	The bill here to make the most expensive cars cheaper adds to a gradually longer series of tax proposals with a rather biased distribution profile, which the government puts forward with the support of the Danish People's Party and the other parties in the bourgeois bloc. A family car will get a cut in the price • if you buy a new • of between 10,000 and 20,000 kroner, it will be reported. And it may well be a sympathetic move • we have relatively high car charges in Denmark, you might say • but where it is really bouncing out is for the luxury cars at the expensive end, which will be several hundred thousand kroner cheaper. And I wonder if that is one of the main reasons why champagne corks were popped in the group room of the Liberal Alliance after the agreement on the Finance Act had been concluded. The proposal is part of the Finance Act for 2016, which also provides a tax relief for the homeowners, not least in the large cities and in the municipalities where housing prices have risen most and where the tax on heirs to family-owned businesses is reduced, while at the same time cutting back on the elderly's housing benefits, introducing a ceiling on cash benefits, extending the target group of integration benefits and removing the cheap housing law. Add to this that the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives with the Finance Act also give hands to each other to vote for a minus growth in the municipalities in the coming years, which we have discussed thoroughly in the Chamber today. And these are things that need to be done in order to be able to finance these skewed measures in a number of areas in the area of tax policy. So it is a crooked financial law that is not given a much-needed boost to close welfare, does not give priority to upgrading skilled and unskilled employees and does not support the creation of new jobs throughout the country. And the proposal will therefore mean that the excise duty rate of 180%. put down to 150 per cent. for the part of the registration fee and the value of the car that is above this crack at the approximately DKK 80,000. The government expects a positive effect on the supply of work for a total of 700 people. This is a very positive estimate, and we really need to make the drill more thorough in the committee work, how it is felt to have such a favourable effect on the supply of labour, and perhaps even more appropriate to have a look at the caution in it as well. Because at the same time as the government warns strongly against balancing the edge of various deficit limits which we are obliged to respect, it has an assessment of this proposal, where the dynamic effects are even very dynamic and you very quickly get a behavioural effect, so it goes from the fact that it actually costs over 1 billion. kr., that after reflow and behavior there will only be an expense of 350 million. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). But we can all get the drill out, and we can get the government's statement that we can be comfortable about it, so there is a guarantee that we will not go beyond the limits despite this rather positive assessment of dynamic effects. The proposal also has a clear negative impact on the environment. After all, the tax minister himself has had to reply that the proposal will increase CO2 and as the change passes through the entire car park, CO2 is estimated to have been sensible to make a real revenue-neutral change of car charges so that it becomes more attractive to buy more environmentally friendly, climate-friendly and safe cars, while at the same time making the system more transparent and manageable. And it is actually still the policy of the Socialists to want it to be possible to do so because there are some inappropriate things about our registration tax system as it is today. But instead, with the support of the Danish People's Party among others, you choose to make a rather antisocial financing with some skewed tax proposals; this is one of them. We believe that this is a strange priority for a financial law, which, at the same time, reduces housing support for the elderly and reduces the close welfare of the municipalities in the coming years. In our draft Finance Act 2016 these are exactly the things we prioritise: the welfare of everyday life for the Danes, the care of our children and the elderly and the upgrading of skilled and unskilled workers for their own benefit and for the benefit of Danish companies. On the other hand, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153457	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153501	The fact that you are a Social Democrat or a Leftist in the Danish Parliament and participate in the public debate is very often not something where you contribute with any substance, but more something where you contribute with some rhetoric, and the rhetorical feature here is that you lighten the registration fee for the most expensive cars. The substance is such that by far the greater part of this relief comes to the benefit of ordinary cars. Let me give you some examples. An Opel Astra 1.4 will be approx. 9,000 kroner. cheaper, a Peugeot 3008 will be approx. 18,000 kroner. cheaper, a Volvo V 70, which is such a station wagon, which is the most sold car in Sweden, will be approx. 28,000 kroner. cheaper. So it's ordinary family cars that get cheaper. My question now is to the Socialists: if the Social Democrats get a majority in the Folketing after the next elections, the Socialists will raise the registration fee from the current 150 per cent. at 180%. Again?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153614	With regard to how we are going to put our policy as we approach election day, we have to wait until then to see. On this point, however, I can repeat from my speech that we are actually interested in a change in car taxation, which makes it more attractive to buy environmentally friendly, climate-friendly, safe cars, and that it becomes more part of the way to calculate taxes, which simply gives a greener car park, gives a smaller CO2 This should be more the way we assess what cars are going to cost. So let's see if it's been successful by then, then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's question turns out to be superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153701	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153703	Now I mentioned three cars that will be considerably cheaper as a result of this. I mentioned an Opel Astra, a Peugeot 3008 and a Volvo V 70. When the Socialists have finished their preferred change of registration tax, will the three cars, which will be cheaper by this tax reduction, become more expensive again? In the view of the Socialists, should the cars we are making cheaper now, these ordinary family cars, be more expensive again? And I remind you, sir. Jesper Petersen said that most of the 1.2 billion. kr. A great deal of relief from registration tax that we are dealing with here will benefit these kinds of cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153745	There is no doubt that it also affects ordinary cars, because most cars have a value above the crack that you also touch when you make this tax reduction from 180 to 150 per cent. That's for sure. I only dispute the wisdom of making this kind of unilateral reduction in registration tax from the top when a more thoughtful change in car taxation could have been made. So, sir. Ole Birk Olesen can save himself some kind of scaremongering that now all these cars are going to be more expensive, but should then embark on the fight simply to have a better car taxation system than what we have. Then it is true that you can mention some types of cars where there is a small gain. Where it really bons out is on the very expensive cars, and I think that is also the segment, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen has been interested in benefiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153834	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153835	Thank you. It must be understood from the Social Democrats that they think this is incredibly wrong, because when a percentage reduction is introduced, the person who buys the expensive product will, of course, make more of it than the person who buys the slightly less expensive product. Well, those who buy a more expensive car will automatically get more out of it. And since it is socially crooked, I would really just like to ask the Social Democrats what they thought it was when they completely removed the tax on electric cars in 2012. Wasn't it socially wrong, because you just gave a much bigger discount on a Tesla than you did on a VW e-up!? It is a little strange that we are criticising this reduction from 180 to 150 per cent when we have introduced a total tax reduction on electric cars ourselves in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204153919	I think so, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær is aware that it is different discussions about different considerations when one has done so. I would be careful not to pursue too high a rhetoric in the field if, as the Danish People's Party, I had just been involved in negotiating a financial law agreement, where you among other things. In order to finance this, we have to do what we did earlier today, namely vote in favour of the fact that there should be minus growth in the municipalities in the coming years, although this was not necessary for any economic reason, but only in order to finance a number of tax cuts, including this one, which in the case of some cars would mean that they would be a little cheaper, whereas the really expensive cars would get a huge discount. One could have chosen to increase the crack for when to start imposing the high tax. Smaller cars would have benefited from it too. The smallest cars get 0 kroner. in winnings. On the other hand, everyone will experience the loss of fortune that is that the used car they have right now will be worth correspondingly less. So not least older people who own a car for the last time are quite directly affected by this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154028	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154029	It was a finance agreement for 2016 that was made where there is neither negative growth in the state nor in the municipalities, although this proposal is included. But since you are so opposed to it, you could also answer: if you have a majority after an election, will you change it? I agree that efforts should be made to restructure car taxes, but the starting point will be that we have the system we have now and if we do not manage to restructure, will this relaxation be removed again?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154056-2	As I said earlier, our campaign papers have not been prepared, but I find that hard to imagine. We will go for a tax reform so that we have a better car tax system, which means that if you buy a more environmentally friendly, climate-friendly car, you will be able to afford someone who is better than the one you can afford today so that that is more important than that. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær simply cannot avoid the fact that this financial law also means that there will be less income for the state in the years to come, and that it also means that you have to have some money in order to make these reliefs. And it's from the close welfare that you have to take that money. You have to answer for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154141	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154144	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen says that the Social Democrats are interested in changing the registration fee, but they have just had four years to do so, so why has the opportunity not been taken to redeploy the tax? Nor did we get an answer as to whether the registration fee will be raised again if we come back to power at the next elections. But I am actually also interested in hearing quite specifically whether Mr. Jesper Petersen has noticed that with the relaxation, the citizens get 1.2 billion. kr. again, while the Treasury in the long term loses only about 300 million. kr. What does the rapporteur think about this? Is it not remarkable that we in Denmark have taxes that are so high that it costs so little for the Treasury to give the citizens so much back?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154230	It is well known that in an international context we have a rather hard taxing car tax system which taxes the value so directly that quite high car prices are obtained and that cars, which are actually relatively climate-friendly and environmentally friendly or involve new technology, are also being disproportionately expensive. And that is one of the things that could be dealt with if car taxation were to be changed. It's not that easy, among other things. because it gives quite a lot of money to the state, and that is something that needs to be taken into account. You have to be able to finance it. Then there is also the fact that there is quite a lot of money out there in the car park now, and so you have to think very carefully when you make such changes. We will continue to seek to achieve this, and it will be far better than making such unilateral reductions, looking at the percentage alone and doing nothing special in order to have a more environmentally sound car taxation system. As I replied, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær before, I find it hard to imagine that we will put the tax back up again. But we have not yet put forward our campaign plan for the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154341	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154342	Thank you very much for your answer. There was then a little comfort in the fact that the registration fee will not be raised immediately. Now, in his speech, the rapporteur mentioned that there is a reduction in welfare in order to implement such a proposal here, so I would like to ask again whether the rapporteur does not find it remarkable that in the long term the Treasury will lose only 300 million. kr., whereas the citizens get 1.2 billion. kr. Again. Is it not also welfare that citizens can get back some more money that they can use for oatmeal or air costumes, or whatever they need? Isn't that welfare too?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154417	I know that there are some forces on the right who are trying to introduce such a new concept of welfare, which must, as it were, be about that one can buy oneself for that. And it's just some kind of welfare society we're opposed to. It should not depend on one's insurance size or how good one's ability to buy for basic welfare benefits is. It has to be something everyone has the right to and can get to, no matter how much money they have. It's just a weakening of the funding of it. You cannot spend the same money on day care and care and hospitals if you have given them away in lower car taxation. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154455	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154458	Thank you very much. I would like to sign for the rapporteur to emphasise that we need to give advantages to the climate-friendly cars via registration tax, because we know that if we are to achieve Denmark's both short-term and long-term climate targets, something must happen in the transport sector. Next year, we can expect very ambitious reduction targets from the European Union of between 36 and 40 per cent. in the non-quota sector, but we will never do so unless we do something about the transport sector. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that we really need to do something about the registration tax, which is going in the opposite direction to this proposal, so that with the registration tax we can ensure that the car park is transferred to a car park based on electricity so that we can achieve the long-term climate targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154551	I would like to see more electric cars, but I would also like to see changes to the charging system, which means that conventional cars that we have in our car park simply become more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly than those that are there now. So basically, yes. That is also what I say in my speech, and we will still seek to do so. I would just like to warn against thinking that it is easy because there are so many considerations and built-in issues in changing car taxation after as many years of driving as it has now and that it is not an easy exercise. That is also part of the answer to an earlier question as to why it did not succeed in previous years. There are major issues when it comes to doing so, but I do not want to hide the fact that it is our intention to make a better car tax in Denmark that brings our car park in a more climate-friendly and safe direction than our current system does.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154645	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154647	Thank you for your answer. I think it is very important to pay close attention to the real challenge of the transport sector. I agree that this is difficult, but the challenge is also gigantic. CO 2 higher today than it was in 1990. That is to say, it has gone the wrong way for many years. There has been a small dive as a result of the economic crisis, but it is not certain that it will last. So I would really like to call for this to be taken very seriously, so that if you regain government, along with the green parties on the left, you go in and look very seriously at this whole registration system, so that we basically have it changed, because that is what it takes if we want to promote green transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154735	The call has been received and I hope that as little time as possible will pass before we can start that debate under a different majority. Some figures have been given on how much extra CO2 so I would just like to repeat before the hopes get too high that it will be difficult to do so, but that is the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. If he wants to come up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204154814	This is a proposal that is part of the Finance Act between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, so we can in the Danish People's Party support the bill. It is about reducing the registration tax on passenger cars and motorcycles. After all, we have a very high tax system for cars and motorcycles, in fact among the highest in the world, in that we have a levy of 180 per cent, which is now proposed to be reduced to 150 per cent, which is still high internationally, but a little less than 180 per cent. It should be seen as a help to the families of children who now, with this tax reduction, are better able to afford to buy a better and safer car, and we really think that is quite sympathetic. You have to bear in mind that the vast majority of the cars sold in Denmark are around this target group. However, we've seen the last few years that a lot of people have bought these microcars, and it's to be expected that more of them will now buy these middle-class cars, which are typically safer. Then I can understand on the left, both the Socialist rapporteur and what I have seen in the media, that the left is of the opinion that this is really socially wrong, that it should be very wrong, that a car tax should be reduced for everyone. But that is precisely the percentage figure. Whoever buys the most expensive car pays the highest tax, and he will do so after this bill is passed. Should we follow the logic that it is always socially wrong to lower a tax which is a percentage, what was the case with the electric cars, which would be totally exempt from duty from the left? It must really be socially wrong, because then Teslaen would be highly taxed, but now we are saving an awful lot of taxes compared to a VW e-up, where there is not much tax. That is how the percentage is calculated, that is to say, you get a higher discount on a more expensive product than you do on a cheaper product. One could also turn it around and say that logic must also apply the other way. Now it is said that this is socially wrong, but it would have been socially balanced if the tax had been raised to, for example. 250 per cent.? It is true, then, that those who bought the expensive cars will pay much more, but everyone else will pay much more, but it must logically be much more socially right when it is socially wrong to lower a tax. I think this is a strange way of arguing against this from the left. It could also be turned around and said: what about the municipal tax? If you put it down by 1%, the one who makes the most money would of course make the most of it because it is a percentage. Or what if you just lowered the bottom tax? Then whoever makes the most money would make the most of it. It does not necessarily have to be socially wrong. It is certainly difficult to do a great deal about our market system in Denmark if that is the way to argue. Then you just have to look at what taxes are on cars in other countries. So there they still have lower taxes than we have in Denmark, and therefore the way we tax our cars may not be so socially skewed. In the Danish People's Party, we can get a safer car, because that's what this is all about. This is not about Porsche and Lamborghini, which are sold very few of in Denmark, but about middle class cars, which are sold very many of in Denmark. They are now becoming a little cheaper and thus there is a greater incentive for children's families too to have a slightly better and safer car, which we think is positive enough. But it should not be a secret that this is a part of the Liberal Alliance that has brought into the Finance Act, and if we in the Danish People's Party could have decided for ourselves how it should be, we would have liked to have liked to have spent this revenue on a general change of car taxes, which I can also understand many other parties in the Danish Parliament would have liked to do, because I think it would be easier to change car taxes if you had some revenue, you could put into that work and thereby make it easier. But that is the way it is when there are financial law negotiations, you give some things and you take some things, and there it is the Liberal Alliance, you have to say that it has demanded that it be this model, and it has become so. The last thing I want to mention, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, is that there is another positive effect on this draft law, and that is that there is an increase in the labour supply effect of 700 people, which, after all, is also positive. The Danish People's Party is a contracting party to this agreement, which is why we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155244	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155247	In other words, it is just before I feel sorry for the rapporteur, who stands and sounds quite lazy on the basis of the agreement reached by the Danish People's Party. This may well add up to the question I would like to ask, because part of the agreement is that you go in and reduce the housing allowance for what the Elders Case estimates to be between 160,000 and 180,000 elderly people in Denmark. They are cut by between DKK 7,000. and 16,000 kroner. a year. Thanks for the coffee, that's a lot of money. In total, in 2020, this will amount to only half of what we are talking about here today in the Chamber. I have to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: how does it really feel for the Danish People's Party, when at least in the election campaign you have given the impression that you fought the cause of the elderly, to stand and help to spend the money on facilitating the registration tax on cars instead of spending the money on the elderly? What is reasonable, and how does it feel for the Danish People's Party to have made that agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155346	I therefore believe that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, has come to the debate on the wrong bill, because the debate on housing benefits is on Tuesday next week. So it might be more appropriate to take the debate on that one. However, we are quite satisfied with the financial agreement we have concluded with the conditions that were once economical. The fact is, we should start by finding 5 billion. kr. just to bring Denmark on the right side of the EU recommendation, and in order to finance the actions that had to be prioritised, some money had to be found afterwards. We are quite happy with that in the light of the framework that exists. That is why we would have liked to have made a different financial law and that there were some things that could have been given more priority. After all, there are always negative things in a budget law, and that is how it is for all parties, I think. Nor do I think that the Liberal Alliance or the Conservatives think everything in the Finance Act is very good, but that is how it is when a compromise is reached. After all, the Socialists should know this from before the elections, where they themselves sat in government and where they themselves lowered the top tax and corporation tax, and that may not exactly give money to the elderly when it comes to that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155444	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155445	Now we gave in the same rebirth 5,000 kr. to the poorest elderly. I think the rapporteur should bear that in mind. It was not the top tax that we lowered, but the limit on when to start paying it. You could have chosen to do that here too. One might have chosen to say that it was actually the cheapest group, that is not the cheapest cars, but the middle-class cars you went in and freed. You haven't done that. There's a lot of profiles on this. In my view, the rapporteur himself agrees with this. Then the rapporteur makes it sound as if this proposal is something that we are forced to implement. Reference is made to an EU recommendation and everything else, and it is said that some money should be found. No one, either from the European Union or elsewhere, has forced anyone to make this proposal. Would the rapporteur like to confirm that this is money taken from the elderly and given to some car owners? And then I just ask again: is this a fair way of distributing money in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155538	I do not think it is unreasonable to say to the families of children that they can have a safer and safer car to drive around in. I think that is quite reasonable. It is clear that if we could spend the money alone, we would rather spend it on health or the elderly, but it is a compromise when you make a settlement and it is clear that the other parties must have something too. The main demand from the Liberal Alliance was that you want something on car taxes, and it was this model you wanted. On the front, we still saw, in the same way as the Socialist Group, that a general change in vehicle taxes was made, which was more technically based, but it is probably a discussion that needs to be put in place in order to move forward later. This isn't part of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155615	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155617	Finance laws always involve compromises. But there is also something called a lower limit, and Mr. rapporteur: The Danish People's Party finds funding for their Finance Act by sticking its hand into the pocket of over 100,000 Danish folk pensionists and stealing their housing allowance in order to spend the money together with the Liberal Alliance to lighten the tax on the most expensive half of the cars, not to lighten the car tax for the early retirement family or the low-paid ones, who are going to buy a car and of course the most expensive cars. This is not a compromise. It's a total surrender.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155702	I'm not buying the premise that this is only for the most expensive cars. Well, the vast majority of cars that are bought and sold around aren't the most expensive cars. It is not a Porsche or a Lamborghini; it is a Skoda or a Toyota etc. These are the ones people who have children drive, and here you just make it a little cheaper for them to get a safer car. I think that is quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155725	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155726	When the rapporteur read his speech, I had some doubts as to whether the rapporteur has read and understood the bill. For the rapporteur said that it was only percentage by percentage that the most expensive cars received the greatest tax reduction. But that's not true because they're above the scale. The cheap cars get 0 kroner. So the early-retirer, who has to buy one of the small, cheap cars, gets 0 kroner. That's reality. After all, the bill says that only about half of the cars sold this year will be covered by this. Just ordinary Danes who can't afford to buy a car for more than DKK 160,000. in the case of tax relief. If they are old-age pensioners, they have to pay the bill in return.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155810	You could turn it around and say that with this bill they might have a bigger opportunity than they would otherwise have had to buy a car that is a little safer and has a little more space. And now that you think it is so totally wrong, what is happening in all the other countries that have a much lower tax on cars? So it's a social mass grave? Or is it just Denmark that may have an unnaturally high tax on cars? I don't think it's so unreasonable to make sure that the families of children can get a little safer than they could before this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155836	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155837	I really think it is a good thing that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær in his speech just like just lays it out and says: Here the Danish People's Party had to give lost as on so many other points in the Finance Law negotiations. I think it was a few weeks before the agreement was made that I saw statements to the press by the party's finance rapporteur saying: now registration fee is being discussed, but the Danish People's Party is opposed to that. Nevertheless, this is how it ends and, as has been mentioned, and as I mentioned from the platform before, it is not the case that the smallest cars are being taken care of, but there are some who really get a huge prize. We discussed funding before, and we cannot sneak away from it, even though there is a debate on Tuesday, that money comes from somewhere, and that is one of the things that is happening. About the elderly. That, my question to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is about that the mechanism is, of course, that your used car is worth less, and that makes the new one you want to buy, too, but those who own a car for the last time, older people who no longer need a car will experience a definite loss of the same DKK 10,000-20,000. for the smaller car that is mentioned as an example around, when they then sell their car last time and go out of the car market. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204155949	In fact, in the background material for this bill, there is an article in which one from the BilBasen is quoted as saying that the cars that are more than 3 years old are not expected to have the big effect. But in relation to the cars that are quite new, it will of course have the effect that they fall in value. And there's the consequence, when people go out of the car market, that they'll get the problem if you have a brand new car if you've just bought it and then don't have a car after all. But I do not think that is the case for most people, because many times you may have a slightly older car. But CarBasen, who, after all, are those who have quite a lot of control over what is being sold by cars, says that cars over 3 years of age are not going to fall in value. You don't think that's the big challenge with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160032	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160034	Well, it's possible that the amounts aren't the same... 300,000 kroner. or more, which you get at a discount, if you buy a new Porche, i.e. that it is not what you lose if you have had it for some years. Nevertheless, if you have had a middle-class car, which costs relatively much in Denmark because of our taxes, then you will get a loss. And I just think this is part of the fact that the Danish People's Party has to finance this proposal by taking money from the elderly by reducing the local welfare and thus taking directly from the housing benefits for older people and at the same time causing them a loss when they sell their car for the last time • a greater loss if it is a relatively new car, and a smaller loss if it is a little older, but a direct loss for the elderly. It's just part of the picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160121	I really think that is a rather strange logic, because you could also turn it around and say that if you had to do a favour for those who have to get rid of their car, that is, if for one reason or another they have to get rid of it because of illness, or because they are going to study, or because they want to take the S-train, yes, then you just had to set up the tax, because then you did everyone a favor. In other words, it is socially much more balanced, and people will have expensive cars when they buy them, children's families cannot get quite so safe cars, and people who go out of the market may then be fortunate enough to hope that the car market for used cars has also increased. Well, it's kind of a reverse logic. But what's a little exciting in this discussion is, of course, whether the Socialists will roll this back again if they come to after an election. I seriously doubt that you will. I think it is a not very marketable task to go out and say that there must be higher car charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160201	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160206	Although we are not discussing at all the greatest challenge we are facing at all, namely climate change and the changes that, among other things, are taking place. We need to do this in our transport sector, so that we can help ensure a green transition, and even if we do not give a damn about it, and I do not think that DF cares so much about it, I just have to agree with my colleagues and say: it is absolutely crazy when you have the profile that DF has, that you then take elderly people's housing support and take money out of the pensioners' pockets to give a huge check in the hands of the car owners who have the most. That doesn't make any sense at all. The rapporteur then says that it is for everyone, but that is exactly the same as saying that the top tax is removed completely, because it does not get anything out of people with ordinary incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160312	Now the question was not about the green, but it is still mentioned. But I also do not buy that it has to pollute much more, because you get a better car. The problem with the value-based tax, and I actually believe that the Social Democrats and the SF agree with this, is that it actually means that you do not get the new technologies that are greener. By lowering the tax there is actually a greater incentive to buy a better car with a better technology, so you might be able to drive longer on a litre of gasoline, diesel, electricity, or whatever it is. So the fact that it was supposed to be harmful to the green profile, I'm not buying. The combination of 1:1 in a Finance Act by the rapporteur does not really last. It might as well be said that this is being reduced by funds from the reduction of aid from developing countries, or it could be from all the other sources of funding. Nobody says this is coming from the housing service, so I think it's a weird clutch to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160356	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160358	In the end, the money comes from the same place. And I just have to say to DF, who often talks about us having a welfare majority, that you're never there to take advantage of it with the rest of us, but you make such an antisocial finance law. And who's going to have it? These are the richest company heirs and there will also be other tax cuts. Here it is they who have the most expensive car that gets the most out of it. For the rapporteur himself says it is a percentage, and it means in cold cash that it is those with the most expensive luxury cars that get the most out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160440	So the vast majority of people who get something out of this bill are families with children who buy an ordinary Skoda, Toyota, So it is quite a few Danes who buy a Porsche or Lamborghini. So I'm not buying that claim that this is just a gift to the very richest, and that everyone else isn't getting anything out of it. I do not think that many people in here have an expensive car, although we are actually quite paid in relation to the average Danish. I think we're also driving around in regular cars. The fact that you had to buy a Porsche or Lamborghini is simply a bad argument, and I think it is very unspeakable that you use it to say that it is a bad proposal, because it is families with children who get safer cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160516	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160518	First of all, a brief comment on Mr. Jesper Petersen, who cares a lot about pensioners, who allegedly, I understand, buys their expensive last car and then already sells it a year later and therefore loses on this. Outside the real world, the last car the pensioner has is typically one that gets driven until it can't drive anymore and then the pensioner stops having a car. But to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dennis Flydtkjær must stand for shots here. But for the fact that the best thing will always be to redeploy, as all the other parties also say, one party only went to the financial bill negotiations with a desire to do something about the registration fee and would like to set aside money for it, and that party was not the Danish People's Party. That was the Liberal Alliance, and that is why the Liberal Alliance has got something here, not the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160609	I can fully confirm that, and I think I said so in my rapporteur's speech. It was the Liberal Alliance that carried this to the negotiating table and wanted this model. And when you make a budget law, it is the case that you get something, but you also have to give something, because these are compromises, as I have said several times. So there's no doubt that this was the Liberal Alliance model and their condition for joining an agreement. So I can only confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160628	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen? Then the next sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160634	Well, there may be a lot of balances and imbalances in a finance agreement. Now we can see here that the Danish People's Party has helped to prioritize the use of 360 million. kr. We have seen from the debate that it is they who are buying the most expensive cars that make the most of the agreement that has been reached. If you look at the large amount, 360 million. kr., what could you have got instead? Well, you couldn't have taken the 200 million. kr. in housing allowance to the elderly out of the pockets of the elderly. It could also have been ensured that the freezing of the land would also apply to tenants and residents in general homes, disabled homes and elderly homes • it would have cost 225 million. kr. kr. So instead of these reductions in vehicle taxes, 200 million could have been retained. kr. the elderly, and it could have been ensured that the freezing of land was also the case for tenants. I would like to ask the chairman if the chairman is satisfied that the Danish People's Party got 1.5 million. kr. to runic stones.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160740	I think it is now the rapporteur who is being asked, and not the chairman. I think the President would be tired of having to answer questions on my behalf. I would like to say first of all that the wrong numbers are used. The lasting impact of this proposal is 200 million. kr. This must be countered by what was said in the previous question by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Ole Birk Olesen, namely that it was their demand for a negotiation. One of the things that we saw in the negotiations was an elderly billion ECU. kr. Well, you give some things and you take some things, and I don't think it was the Liberal Alliance's wish that you should give a whole billion more to the municipalities. Things get a little complicated if you sit here and you have to take things against you in a finance bill. There are a lot of things where there are both pluses and minuses, and what you have to do with yourself is whether there are more pluses in the weight bowl than there are minuses when you are done. So I think there has been for the Danish People's Party, even when you also include in the equation, that we started by having to find 5 billion. kr. Just to get on the right side of the EU's recommendation, money should have been found, no matter who had won the election. So, if the left had won the election, they should also have found some money to get on the other side of the EU equation before you could make a financial law. So with that in mind, I think this has become an okay deal where there are far more pluses than there are minuses. But yes, there are also minuses, of course there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160850	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160852	I understand that the rapporteur welcomes the fact that one billion is taken first. kr. from the municipalities, and then you give 1 billion. kr. back, and then it's 0 kroner. You're so happy about that. Then I understand that there are some things that can be found in the text of the Finance Act. It's not just the 1.5 million. kr. to rune stones, which I mentioned just now. After all, 1.5 million has been set aside. kr. to convey Denmark's history to children and young people. 1.5 million has also been set. kr. to mark something with the Danish West Indies. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether these are the significant fingerprints that the Danish People's Party has obtained from the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204160929	One would not think that the questioner knew that, but now it is not the Finance Act that we are discussing today, so it is now a concrete bill on vehicle taxes. And then you can pull somebody out of the Finance Act and discuss it. But I just want to make it clear that no one is taking 1 billion. kr. from the municipalities to give 1 billion. kr. to the municipalities. I myself am on the town council of Herning Municipality, and I can mention that, although we did not do anything in the Finance Act, where we fixed some things, we would actually have a plus growth next year that we did not have under the Red Government. It is true that we are actually losing 7.5 million in Herning Municipality. kr. on a re-prioritization contribution, but at the same time we are getting more money with these extraordinary financial grants. We get 5 million. kr. For integration and now 15 million. kr. to the elderly area. So there's a nice plus in Herning Municipality. So to the myth that there is minus growth in the municipalities, I would say that according to my own experience in Herning Municipality it doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161018	Sir. Per Husted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161021	I think that is a very sympathetic argument, that is, that families with children can have a slightly safer car. They deserve that. Then it is I cannot help thinking about the fact that when you on a slightly safer car will save 7,000-9,000 kroner. on such an ordinary car, this then means that the ordinary family of children, because of being able to get a cheaper car, chooses to go from the slightly unsafe car to buy e.g. a Volvo, which is known to be a very safe car? Does the rapporteur think that this is what it will have as a consequence?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161056	Yes, it will for some. I can't sit around and tell you what people can do with their money. It may also be people who bought a Volvo and now buy a new Volvo and save some money that they then spend on extra flysuits or new stroller, or whatever it may be. This is a matter for the families themselves, and I can tell them that, in other words, they will be able to find out for themselves what they are giving priority to their money. But I certainly believe that there are some people today who may buy a microcar, but would like a safer car, which they will then perhaps now be able to afford, because you lower the high tax from 180 to 150 per cent, which is still a high level, but after all it makes it a little more attractive to buy a family car.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161128	Sir. Per Husted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161129	Of course, I do not expect it to be car experts and that everyone can afford car prices, but we are actually talking about if it is Volvo, which has been mentioned a few times, that the cheapest cost is over DKK 500,000. I hear that you see that as the alternative to the sensible purchase of a Skoda I think that the rapporteur himself mentioned that you might be able to get down to DKK 250,000. Honestly, does that even have any effect? Shouldn't we be honest and tell each other that this is a relief for those who want the very expensive cars? Should we not be so honest and say that you simply had to eat it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161206	If you were to use the reverse logic, you might as well have had a tax that was twice as high, because it obviously has no bearing on which car people choose. I think the questioner can hear that himself sounds a little weird. Of course, it means something to a family of children who have enough costs for a great many different things, what they cost. If you want a safe car, which now becomes a little cheaper, then it has an effect on the fact that you have at least the option of choosing it. Whether you do it or not is up to you. It may also be that you choose to spend the money on a better pram or better flysuits or shoes or whatever there may be. There's a lot of expenses. But of course the price has an effect, otherwise you might as well raise it, but that may be what the Socialists want.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161243	Thank you. Then we have no more questioners on the list now, so we thank the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161256	This bill reduces the registration fee from 180 to 150 per cent. for the purchase of passenger cars, motorhomes and motorcycles. The bill is part of the 2016 Finance Law Agreement. We are a minority government and that is why this has been one of the things that has come out of the financial law negotiations, but it is actually also something that benefits ordinary families. In Denmark, families drive around in much smaller cars than they do in the rest of Europe. This is important because cheap cars often do not have the same level of safety as the slightly larger cars. It is therefore to be hoped that tax reductions will lead to slightly larger and safer cars. There is also an impact in relation to the risk of accidents and the extent of accidents when they occur. So with this tax relief, hopefully the ordinary family will be able to afford a slightly better and safer car. Specifically, this means that depending on which model you choose, you can save between 10,000 and 20,000 DKK. on a medium-sized family car. Lower registration fees help to make a difference for the ordinary family. When we lower registration fees, it is also beneficial for mobility and for labour supply, as other rapporteurs have already mentioned, and this is therefore a good agreement. I am aware that there are some who would like to see the registration tax completely removed, but here too we have to deal with the need to get tax dollars into the financing of our welfare society. This is about lightening taxes and facilitating the everyday life of ordinary families, and where relief actually matters. On behalf of the Left, I can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161441	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161443	It's kind of funny how the government uses the safety argument when at the same time proposing to raise the speed limits. I mean, this is really something that will lead to a lot of fatal accidents on the Danish roads, if you listen to those who are experts in that area, then it doesn't help so much that the cars are a little bigger. So I think it sounds like an explanation that is about covering up a proposal that is, after all, beating up socially. Medium-sized family cars are being said, but let us not just put the amounts on the table. It's about cars that cost more than $160,000 to $170,000. All the cars that a lot of Danes buy, about half of the cars sold last year, are not covered by this reduction. In fact, I would like to ask: is this something that the Liberal Alliance has taken care of, or is it also the position of the Left that if you are going to lower registration fees, it is best to do so in a way where half of the Danes who buy cars or who around there will not notice any difference, but those who buy the really expensive cars will get a huge relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161558	I think it's a very strange attitude to have like to suspect us that we don't want any safety in the cars. Of course we want safe cars, which is why I am delighted that we are getting safe cars out of this. I am not in any doubt about that. And the ordinary family car will be cheaper. Some of the examples we have heard of are such things as Peugeot 3008 and the like, i.e. an ordinary family car. It's a pleasure, then, for ordinary families to be able to afford a slightly better car, a slightly safer car. I mean, it's one of the things that matters, especially when you've had children, that you have the opportunity to buy a car that has some safety equipment so that you can protect them in the best way possible. So I think it's nice that we can help the Danes get better cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161640	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161641	Now I just pointed out that the raising of speed limits that you want to implement will have a negative impact on road safety for families, the same families that you say you want to protect. General family, says the rapporteur, but what is an ordinary family? Is an ordinary family a family with two in the lowest income group? They can't afford to buy those cars. The rapporteur himself says that this is the middle class. Is an ordinary family also common if one is on early retirement, or are ordinary families only families above a certain income group when it comes to the Left's assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161720	If you look beyond the Danish car park, a Peugeot is certainly not an unusual car. It's not a car you buy, if you have a crazy lot of money, it's usually not the car you choose. It is typically a car you choose if you are a family of children, who also have to think about the economy as a whole and have the economy to hang together. Therefore, the choice is to choose a car that is spacious and functional rather than a smart car. It is simply because of economic reasons that we choose from it, and I would like to see what we were given a safer car as well. Well, I'd like you to afford to make that choice. We see more and more car brands launching security packages that cost extra. That's some of the price tags, and I think that's fantastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161804	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161806	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to explain how, in the longer term, we will ensure that we reduce CO2 because we are here with a bill that will increase CO2 and there I think the rapporteur of the Left must agree that there we cannot possibly get around the transport sector. As I mentioned in a previous speech, we have huge challenges here precisely because the emissions from transport are 11%. higher today than they did in 1990. So we are standing here with a completely misguided bill that takes this entirely in the wrong direction and that basically socialally is completely idiotic. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to answer what it is that we are going to do in the long run, when we are going to have to decide on this next year, and when we are creating a problem that just grows with this bill and that will make it much more expensive in the long term to achieve the objectives that we have to achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161923	The aim of this bill isn't to reduce CO2, but it's that the cars you drive around in are better. It may also mean that some of them can drive longer on the liter • it can be hoped that in that way it can be. But I would have liked to ask a counter-question: what would Enhedslisten have done? Would Enhedslisten have made all cars more expensive so that people couldn't afford to buy a car and so we got less car transportation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161945	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204161947	Thank you for the counter-question. No, the Enhedslisten wanted to ensure that we still had tax exemptions for electric cars, which are also quite safe cars to drive, so that it would be easier for ordinary people to choose cars that do not contribute to climate change; which do not contribute to air pollution, which causes asthma, bad asthma especially for young children; which causes cardiovascular diseases and cancer for the whole population. So that's what Enhedslisten was gonna do. And that is what we need to do if we take climate change seriously and recognise that we need to take care of our transport sector and ensure that road transport is converted to a technology and to a mode of transport that does not contribute to CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162032-2	But that's where we disagree. Because we are not interested in making ordinary cars more expensive to make electric cars cheaper, and that would, of course, be the consequence of such a scheme. What we want to do with this is to ensure that ordinary families can afford a better car and preferably with better safety equipment. This may also affect the children, because if you crash, you may be able to avoid a lot of harm or loss of parents in a car accident. I think that counts too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162058	Then it's mr. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162103	The disagreement about whether it should be green has been well elucidated on the part of Enhedslisten, and I can only agree very much that there should be different thinking there. I wonder if you can find something positive in it besides seeing it as just a perk, that is to say you can buy a really delicious car. I have great respect for those who have put themselves in a situation where you can buy and prioritise a really delicious car. But is there anything positive for Denmark about this new legislation, other than that the individual can get into a car that is a little more delicious? I find it difficult to see that it benefits growth and safety very much, because the new cars that come are, fortunately, covered by very, very massive security packages, and I do not think anything comes out on the Danish market without it being so justifiable. There have also been developments with us if we compare with how it was ten years ago: The small minicars we drive around today get many stars in the safety tests they undergo. So is there something positive besides that the individual gets an extra pleasure when you get in this a little bigger car?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162159	Yes, there are several good things to do. Before the first, it actually increases the supply of work. Because we will have increased mobility, and that means that more people will have the opportunity to take a job. It's a very good thing for society, and it's also a very good thing for the individual because you get the opportunity to be an active part of society. Then there is the second part of it, namely the safety equipment. It is true that the passive safety of ABS brakes, ESP systems and the like exists in virtually all cars nowadays. But modern technology in the field of safety equipment, such as: safety brakes, i.e. that the car itself slows when you get too close to the car in front, or by ensuring that the car stays on the road or comes with a warning when you get tired, is optional. People have to pay extra for that. It doesn't exist in the cheapest brands. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Takes a Nissan Qashqai, which is an incredibly popular car at the moment, then it is an extra package to buy next door. It will fall in price, so that is why there is an incentive that will ensure a more secure car park and we may want to avoid more accidents. I think that too is something that society enjoys.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162301	Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162303	I very much share the interest in ensuring that everyone in all parts of the country can get around safely, even if the public sector is not in a position to provide a transport solution that can help you. But I really ask here because I haven't gotten into it yet. There are some used car dealers who have contacted me, and they say that right now they are experiencing a ripple ring because no one dares buy a car because you do not know what is happening. I don't know if it's a pity for them, but how is it going to affect whoever has a used car today and the used car dealer who's got a car park?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162339	Well, that's clearly a challenge. That's it. However, in order to avoid uncertainty, we have done so that it works from the submission, that is to say that the draft law will apply from the day it was put forward. There is therefore little uncertainty about this, but there will be a loss of value for certain used car dealers, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162357	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162402	Now the rapporteur of the Left talks a lot about the safety and safety of families with children. We know that the Left has been trying for a long time to paint this picture of Denmark having almost an Old Norse car park where everything is falling apart. It actually ended up in Detector, because the picture that was drawn was equally violent enough, and it turned out that it wasn't correct either. But does caring for children's families also include the 3,500 people who die every year because of air pollution, where some of it comes from passenger transport? That concern might also suffice to say: we should not spend money supporting petrol cars, where we actually give the biggest check in hand to those who have the most expensive car, to the richest car owners. Instead, we should spend the money on promoting electric cars, which, apart from the fact that if you do not care about the environment and climate, at least have a very, very positive effect on our air. Try to think: if there were 3,500 people who died of something, because of terror, in war, of some disease, we would all jump up. Was it not a place to take action, including for children who develop respiratory diseases and other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162520	It's a little paradoxical somewhere. Now the red block has so much attacked this scheme for being socially skewed, and then you're talking about this electric car system. You are unhappy with a scheme we have made, certainly because Teslaer does not get a sufficient share of the tax relief. It's a luxury car. It's socially crooked. If you make a complete tax exemption for electric cars, it is socially unfair. So I just don't understand the logic of this argument I hear every time. After all, I have taken the whole debate on energy and security with a rapporteur from the Enhedslisten earlier. I would say that here I think it is very important to stress that this actually allows for better safety, and that is what I think is really important about this, namely that we can get better cars and we can get safer cars. We think this is important too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162611	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162613	But safer for who? Here in Copenhagen there are several places where air pollution is above EU limit values. We have a main vein in Aalborg, where it lies above, and probably also in a lot of other cities. I am not talking about climate and environment. I have found that the Left is indifferent to air pollution, I am talking about diseases like asthma, where the number of cases is in a clear increase and where you can see a connection with the air pollution that is because there are some who live in an old-fashioned world where you are stuck in petrol cars instead of saying: there are hundreds of deaths that can be avoided every year if you want to enter the future with the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162656	I can then say that these are different things we help. One of the things that helps is the safety equipment in the cars, what they call Active City Stop. This means that if you drive at low speed and you do not notice that the car in front of you slows down, then your own car slows down for you. I mean, it might help to avoid some bad luck. It is therefore also human lives that will be lost if you have accidents. That is one of the things that also helps in the cities. Perhaps not so much on motorways, it cannot stop on motorways when you have to drive 30-50 km/h in order for it to slow down, but it helps in cities. So this also helps the city dwellers if the rapporteur was concerned that it only helped in the countryside. So it helps a lot all over the place. This is a safety measure that helps specifically when driving in the cities. There are other things that help driving everywhere else, but security measures are also something that helps people. It is not only air pollution that is important, it is also safety in the car.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162746	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162750	It is quite all right that the rapporteur is pleased that a little more security has come out of spending 360 million. kr. It is just a pretty large amount and I think you could have had just a little environment for the money. We currently have some charging systems which mean that if a petrol car goes over 16 km on the litre, you will get a deduction from the registration fee. If you buy a diesel car that runs more than 18 km on the gallon, you also get a deduction. I think it is extremely little and one should have looked at it instead. Then we have the entire particle pollution, which is the most massive, the bigger the cities are, and apparently in Copenhagen one per week dies due to particle pollution, and there are a lot of problems with respiratory diseases. Actually, I think it's alarming. When you have to adjust something as important as car taxes, you should not just be aware of whether there is a little more safety in the cars. The pollution that comes from cars should also be given more attention. I would like to ask the rapporteur if there are no environmental aspects to our driving, as we have seen in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162853	I think we are also doing something about the environment. We have made a transitional arrangement for electric cars to ensure that they are not completely phased out. So I would also like to say that this tax reduction can actually also ensure that we have more environmentally friendly cars. If we look at it, we see that we are some of those who have the engines in Europe that are the worst because we have a value-based tax. This means sending the old, bad engines to Denmark because it is value based and not based on the value itself. It may be that, when the engines themselves become cheaper, people will choose some engines that run longer on the liter • some of the fuel-efficient engines • and that is one of the things I hope for. At least it will be cheaper for people to choose it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162932	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204162934	[Sound emission]... if you buy the most expensive car possible. Then we will have the greatest possible economic impact on what has been the reality before this bill is adopted. That is the fact, and it is without question how far such a car drives and how much particle contamination there is from it. So we are up to something here, where we can see that the Left has not given priority to the environment in the agreement they have made with their blue friends. I think that is a pity when you are rowing around on so much money, so that you have not ensured that it is adjusted to promote cars that run longer on the gallon. It does not have to be just electric cars, but why has it not been promoted that cars running longer on the liter are cheaper to buy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163020	I fully agree that the Enhedslisten does not agree with our priorities in the Financial Law Agreement, which I think is quite right. But I am now delighted that it will be cheaper for ordinary families to get a better and safer car.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163031	We have no more questioners on the list now, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163052	This proposal is one of the very good examples of the social profile in the financial agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance. While cutting training to unskilled workers while cutting efforts to combat social dumping while cutting in the Labour Inspectorate, stealing money out of the pockets of thousands of retired people by cutting in their housing benefits, you find 1.2 billion. kr. before returning to a Christmas present for the Danes who can afford to buy the most expensive cars. 300,000 kroner. can a Dane who can afford to buy a Porsche Turbo, save as a result of this legislation, paid for by the cuts that I told you about before. It is not just funding that is antisocial, it is also the very profile of the tax reduction, because what is actually being done? Do you lower the tax for all the Danes who are going to buy new cars? No, you don't. The cars that Danes with low wages can afford to buy will not be a penny cheaper. On the other hand, you can save several million kroner if you belong to the small handful of Danes who can afford the most expensive models of sports cars. It is only about the most expensive half of the cars sold in 2015 that would have been covered by this tax reduction that I mentioned earlier, namely cars from around DKK 160,000. Up and up. If you want to lower the registration fee, there are some problems with that in relation to the environment and all sorts of other things that we have talked about, but if you want to, why on earth do you start from above, from the top, so that the more expensive car you buy, the greater the discount you get? Why should the half of car buyers who cannot afford the most expensive cars have a long nose? The low-paid family, the family, where one parent may be a national pensioner, is left, and there are no gifts from the government to them. But those who can afford to buy the really expensive cars get a relief of hundreds of thousands of dollars. I understand that champagne was toasted at the Liberal Alliance, and I am sure that champagne has also been toasted at other fine addresses in the country after that appointment. In addition to this almost comic-like social profile that's in this proposal, it also has a huge negative environmental impact. 30,000 tonnes a year further CO2 This is what we are dealing with here in the Folketing, while the whole world is gathered in Paris to try to solve one of the greatest challenges we as humanity face. How petty and short-sighted it is that we are sitting here and having a champagne party over the fact that we have managed to increase emissions of CO2 What was needed if we were to look at the registration tax, and it is also a criticism of the previous government, because in this way they promised in their government basis, was an intelligent change in registration tax, as a stranger, that it was the most environmentally friendly cars that became cheaper, so ordinary employees' families, including those who do not have high incomes and do not vote for the Liberal Alliance, were able to buy cars that could drive longer on the litre or drove on fuel sources that were not harmful to the environment. So this proposal is stupid, it's short-term, it's antisocial, and the Enhedslisten doesn't, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163514	There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163517	Enhedslisten's concern for people who are going to buy Volkswagen up! is touching in all its liar. The Enhedslisten is in favour of a change in the registration tax on cars, which means that there will be more tax on a Volkswagen up! It is therefore becoming more expensive as a result of the change in registration tax advocated by Enhedslisten. That's one thing. The second reason why it is touching with Enhedslisten's care is the following: Registration fee on an up! today is 20,000 kroner. A Volvo V70 station wagon will continue to have a registration fee of DKK 265,000 following the reduction of registration fees here. So because you are a family that needs space and therefore has to buy a station wagon, you still have to pay DKK 265,000. And it seems Enhedslisten is too little. Instead, Enhedslisten cares that buyers of an up! I'm gonna pay $20,000. in registration fee because they are so fortunate not to need so much space. It's touching, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163630	It is funny that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that it is almost the case that if you need space, you just buy an expensive car. I don't know if it's been done, sir. Ole Birk Olesen's nose completely past the fact that we have families in Denmark who have no money to buy a car for more than DKK 160,000, whether they incredibly wanted it or not. With regard to what the Enhedslisten is proposing, I would like to say that the restructuring of the registration fee that we would like to see will make it cheaper for families to buy cars that are fuel efficient, while the cars that are heavily burdening the climate will be more expensive. That is the profile we would like if we had to sit down and negotiate a change in registration fees. Of course, in such a change we will also take into account the fact that there are people in this country who need a car. It's a fact. There are people who are not fortunate enough to live close to their workplace. We have many people living where there is no public transport and who need to be able to transport themselves and their families. We must work for better public transport, but we must not, of course, make it impossible for ordinary workers to transport themselves and their families. And that is why we need to link up a registration system that is both socially and environmentally sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163744	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163745	Can I have sir? Pelle Dragsted to confirm that the registration fee on a Volvo V70 station wagon for the family will remain at DKK 265,000 after the tax has been lowered with this bill, while the registration fee on an up!, as Mr. Pelle Voigt... Pelle Dragsted cares, will remain at 20,000 kroner.? This means that the tax on a V70 is 13 times as high after the fall as on an up! Pelle Dragsted would rather lower the tax, even if the party is allegedly in favour of raising it in a change.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163830	Now I won't take out the guitar and start playing an answer that Pelle Voigt would have done! But that is certainly true. I don't know so many families who can afford to buy cars where the registration fee alone amounts to DKK 250,000, but that may be just the company I have. It is not true, however, that Enhedslisten will just make it more expensive for everyone to drive by car. We want to make a sustainable restructuring of the registration fee. That is what we want. And it must be both environmentally and socially sustainable, and it must also take account of where in the country you live.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163903	Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163905	Thank you. When the Left says that they want to make an intelligent change in taxes, it is my experience that they want to do so because they want to control people's consumption. The intelligent thing is simply that politicians have to decide for people what they have to buy, and then they set the charges accordingly. Then the rapporteur will not admit that there is also a good thing that people can spend their own money on those for which they have now worked, the value they have created, so that you can simply go and buy a product of your own choosing without Mr. Pelle Dragsted has sat and weighed intelligently, which products are the best for consumers?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204163950	Well, those who work for their money, that is to say the employees, I think I should be allowed to keep something more of the value they create before the profits are expropriated by the employers. Those are the terms. However, in terms of governance, I would like to say that I have heard the rapporteur of the Left standing up here saying that the purpose of this whole change was to get people to buy bigger cars, as they then say is more secure. So we're not alone in that. I think it is quite fine to use taxes to try to promote behaviour when we have problems as urgent as climate change, and when we have problems that are so urgent that we have people, hundreds of people who die from particle pollution. Then you can play lalleliberalist and say, 'We don't care if people get to fart around in their beating polluting cars.' But it's irresponsible. It is then to take freedom from those people who cannot choose the particle pollution from. We are not separate individuals, Mrs Merete Riisager. We live in a community, and the pollution that one of us inflicts on the rest of us is depriving us of our freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164057	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164058	Now there is at least the fine thing about the fact that if you reduce registration fees, newer technology will also be cheaper. This means that all the new cars that come onto the market and have intelligent technology that intelligent people have sat on and made up will also be cheaper. That must also be seen from Enhedslisten's point of view, one must say. But I'd like to dwell on something else, like Mr. Simpson. Pelle Dragsted said about this comic book-like social profile we apparently have in the Liberal Alliance, because we allow ourselves to drink a glass of champagne when we've done well. Did Mr. Pelle Dragsted not also, in addition to us cartoon people, a sympathy with people from Kolding who get up early, who need a car to drive in which they can transport their children in, who need to get to work and to sports etc., and who now get a little more money in their hands that they can use for oatmeal or meatball pops or champagne if they want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164157-2	You're damn right it is, but if we chose to give priority to spending that money on lowering some taxes, then I'd rather lower taxes in a way that benefited everyone and not just those who drive by car and not just those who can afford to buy a car from the most expensive half of the cars. So also some of the families who get up and don't have the exciting jobs don't have the well-paid jobs. I know these are the well-paid people that the Liberal Alliance is interested in. When it comes to the ordinary employee, it is never the person your policy is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164232	Then we don't have any more questioners on the list of speakers now. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. And this is Mrs Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164249	If you care about ordinary Danes and their ability to adapt as they wish, L 69 is really good news. A reduction in the registration fee from 180 to 150 per cent. is historic in that the registration fee has never been reduced in the past. We in Denmark have got used to paying huge sums of money for our cars and driving in older and smaller cars than we need. It doesn't have to be like that. In the Liberal Alliance, we want to remove the registration fee altogether. This will bring us to our neighbouring Germany and Sweden, and it will also be good for job creation. The removal of registration fees would increase labour supply by 11 000. The relaxation in the Finance Act alone means an increase in labour supply of around 700. It is therefore primarily from this reduction in registration tax that the positive effect on employment is included in the Finance Act. On the left, there is a very strong rhetoric about reducing registration fees. It is believed that it is the rich people in Copenhagen, in North Zealand, who benefit from it. But now it's like living in Copenhagen, it's easy to take the bike or jump on the metro. At least I do that myself very much. But if you live outside the big cities, a car is often a necessity. With the reduction of registration fees, middle class cars like a Peugeot 308 and an Opel Astra 1.4 T will be cheaper and DKK 8,900 respectively. cheaper. You can buy oatmeal, flysuits and meatball dads for that instead, or you can call a craftsman or something quite fifth. It's gratifying. It is also worth noting that a lasting reduction in registration fees is worth far more to citizens than it costs to the state. With a relaxation, the citizens get 1 billion. kr. In the long term, the Treasury will lose only about 200 million. kr. The fact that the citizens win more than the state pays, there are not many red parties that are preoccupied with, but we are in the Liberal Alliance. In the 2016 Finance Act, we have opened a dispute with the ever-increasing taxes and thus the regulation of citizens' behaviour. It's about a lot more than cars. It is about us being masters of our own lives to a greater extent, being free to prioritise our resources, taking us where we want, living out our potential, creating value and, in general, living life with less political interference.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164530	Thank you. And there are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164535	Thank you. I understand that the Liberal Alliance would like to be master of its own car, and I have also found that the Liberal Alliance has not helped to achieve an intelligent shift in registration fees. Because if you want to spend so much money, you could have chosen a model where you would have liked to alienate some of the cars that drive the gallon a long time ago. This could result in the benefit of reduced energy consumption and reduced particulate pollution, which affects all people on the streets, and could reduce CO 2 2 Some people in the world therefore notice what Denmark is doing with this destruction of the green transition, which has been in focus for a long time. So I have to say here that the Liberal Alliance thinks in money and that people just need their own car and spend the money on what they want. And I find it disappointing that the Liberal Alliance cannot contribute anything that could be an intelligent solution to changes in registration fees.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164645	It is absolutely true that we are thinking of money in the Liberal Alliance. My claim is that you do the same in the Enhedslisten. You are just thinking of money as something that politicians and officials need to consume, whereas we are thinking of money as something that citizens primarily need to consume. In relation to an intelligent change, I would say that we in the Liberal Alliance are therefore concerned about removing the registration tax, so there is no reason to sit here and be very concerned about a change. We are concerned about removing the registration fee. Now we've taken a decent bite of it, and we're happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164720	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164722	The rapporteur referred earlier to the fact that we in the Enhedslist may have such a cartoon-like picture of the Liberal Alliance. Recently, there was a good drawing in Århus Stiftstidende by a artist named Nex, a drawing by the leader of the Liberal Alliance who toasted in champagne, and who did he toast with? Yes, he toasted with a poor man and pointed out that the Liberal Alliance toasted what they had received to their electorate, while the foreign aid had been cut. It was really hit, I thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164758	It must in many ways be nice to be in the Enhedslisten and feel that you may be morally elevated; I do not know that. In the Liberal Alliance, we are concerned that we increase the prosperity of society at all, in Danish society, so that we can take care of those who are at risk and so that ordinary people who go to work can increase their own prosperity and help increase the prosperity of society. So we have completely different perspectives. We do not have such a taste in the Liberal Alliance for people from Kolding who get up early and drive to work and therefore need a proper car. We respect them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164837	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164842	Mrs. Merete Riisager's view of freedom is slightly different from mine. This may not come as a surprise either, because it is actually something we have discussed at times. But for me, as long as people don't hurt others, in principle, they have to do what they want. But what I hear Mrs Merete Riisager say is that some people are free to go beyond the many. And I know that the Liberal Alliance climate rapporteur has at least been out to say that he is a climate dissident and that the global warming is not man-made. But all of us, all of us, all of us experts, etc. at least agree that this is a problem. And the eyes of the whole world are on Paris because it's taking us all out. It's not just some people in some island states. It's us at home, too. The problems are easy to feel. Therefore, we need to look at many different elements in order to take our toll, and there is just passenger transport important. Everyone's right, according to the Liberal Alliance, to buy bigger cars and to pollute more is therefore something that goes beyond the freedom of other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204164955	Now we've been discussing the electric cars today. In the past, there has been a tax exemption for electric cars. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that there should be no registration fee on any cars. This means that many of the exciting cars that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would like to drive out on the streets of Denmark, we stop driving out on the streets because we have such a high tax. It is simply virtually impossible in Denmark to buy any of the cars that test new technologies because we have such a high tax. If we reduce the tax, more of those cars can get on the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165035	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165039	I do not know whether Mrs Merete Riisager was in the Chamber earlier this afternoon when I stood here and said so. But the fact is that globally, fossil fuels are subsidised at $5 trillion in 2015 alone. So we are state aid worldwide for fossil fuels with 40 times more than renewable energy. Does that fit into a liberal optic?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165113	Now it is difficult to discuss such a world accounting when what we are discussing today is the Danish registration fees. In Denmark, we are taxing new technology, including the green one. We are taxing the technology that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would like to drive on the streets. In Sweden and Germany, they do not have a registration fee. They have many more cars running and testing new technology, including green technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165140	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165144	Thank you very much. Now I know that the Liberal Alliance does not quite believe in climate change, but now that it is the case that all the scientists in the world agree that climate change is taking place and that there is also a general political consensus that this is a problem that we need to address, and we know that we will soon be required to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector quite significantly, is it not a very good idea to ensure that the cars in which private people invest are some that can help solve this problem? Because if that is not the case, we as a society need to invest a lot, and then it is going to be insanely expensive to secure these CO2 so is it not a very good idea, and do we not have to use a charging system to ensure that climate-friendly cars are much cheaper than those that harm the climate and that basically contribute to socio-economic costs that are quite significant?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165252	In the Liberal Alliance, we recognise climate change. I think the rapporteur knows that too, as far as I understand, she is the climate rapporteur. So she has certainly followed the debate and has also followed what our political leader has said. So I'm sure she knows that very well. But I would like to ask a counter-question. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that if registration fees were now removed, many more cars would be placed on the streets of Denmark, which had newer technology and which tested some of the technologies that the rapporteur would have liked to have tested in Denmark too, so that Denmark could also help to get these cars on the street on our land? You do that in Germany, and in Sweden you have more of this kind of car that drives and tests new technology. Should we also do so in Denmark by removing the registration fee?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165338	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165341	Thank you very much. In particular, I have followed what the Liberal Alliance climate rapporteur makes in various speeches in various media, and I have to say that there is quite a lot of doubt as to what is actually the official line of the Liberal Alliance in relation to climate change. With regard to the rapporteur's comment, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten would very much like to maintain the tax exemption for electric cars, but we do not believe that we will solve the problem and get investment into electric cars if, at the same time, we remove the registration tax on all other cars. The truth is, it's not enough that we just get a little bit of electricity. We must have a quite significant part of our car park to power within a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165433	Now we can stand here and discuss climate, but what we are discussing today is the registration tax, and it is the case that the Liberal Alliance thought that it was quite fine that there was tax exemption for electric cars. We supported that. We just think it should apply to all cars. As the rapporteur will be aware, this tax exemption did not apply to hybrid cars and many of the other technologies which the rapporteur is certainly interested in getting on the street. The Enhedslisten is therefore more concerned with a change than the removal of the registration tax, which would mean a veritable boost on the Danish market compared with the technologies that the rapporteur is concerned with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165515	Then we don't have any more on the list of questions. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the alternative rapporteur, and that's Mr. Knox. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165526	I would like to acknowledge that this is not a climate debate we have here, and that is why I will try to confine myself to talking about tax policy. In order to meet each other, I also think I must plead with myself. I think that earlier in the day I came to stress very strongly that we were talking about luxury cars. I would like to say that it is not necessarily. There are many cars other than luxury cars we are talking about here. But what is quite glaring for us in the alternative and perhaps the only new thing I am really contributing now is that I simply cannot find anything positive in this regulation. Nothing points to greater sustainability. There is nothing to indicate that we will have greater social equality. There is nothing to suggest that the Danes generally have better opportunities to buy a good mode of transport. We will have better opportunities to buy a mode of transport that is better than what we have, and perhaps newer and more delicious. But you don't give it a thought at all to make sure that people are going to invest in something that points out in the future, that is to say something about climate and driving further on the liter, so we use less CO 2 km. I think that is interesting and if anything positive is found in this regulation, then that should be it. Something that cuts in the eye is that the funding goes on that we are going to use more petrol. That makes very little sense to me, as I heard from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen before: something is being done to the benefit of some, which in fact goes against some others, making our total CO2 but the distortion is enormous. Now, when I say I don't want to talk about luxury cars, I'd like to talk about that when it's about. 50% of the market today, which is not going to benefit from this, it is really many people who are not going to benefit from it. I think it doesn't matter if it's luxury we're talking about. It is more interesting to say: who are we to benefit? In the alternative, we find it very difficult to see that this is beneficial to anyone other than those who get a perks on the account of the state and who may not have such a great need for it. So that's going to be a "no" by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165744	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165749	Thank you. In fact, I disagree slightly with the alternative rapporteur here. I very much believe that this bill is about climate, and it is very important that we also discuss climate when we deal with a bill that changes the registration fee and which increases CO2 For the green transition, which is to ensure that we solve climate change and that we do so in time, is all about so much more than just a few wind turbines here and there and a few solar panels on the roof. It is precisely about the fact that we need to look at all sectors of our society, whether it be business policy or tax policy or education policy, or whatever it may be, to ensure that everything, taxes, taxes, supports the green transition and ensures the green transition. So does the rapporteur not agree with me that this is very much about climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165846	It was not, therefore, a fine thing on my part in relation to getting a good question, because of course I fully agree with that. What I was trying to say in the first place was that I would like to accommodate the Liberal Alliance; perhaps I have pointed out a few times that it is not necessarily just luxury cars, and there we might be skewing the debate a little bit too, for my own part, by saying that it is just them. This debate is extremely important in relation to the environment and climate, and we would also like to keep electric cars completely exempt from taxes during this run-in period. Where it comes to its right to turn it over to being just a tax policy we are talking about, it is precisely in relation to who it is that gets the benefit of this. I think that we have the problem, and that is the only place we have included the word luxury cars, in other words in relation to the massive shortage we are going to have in the tax box, compared to these very large cars, where it is actually very large amounts that we are going to miss out on. It may well be that it is quite fair percentage, but I just don't really see that those who can buy these cars are going to care so much about whether it gets a little cheaper or whether it's a little more expensive because it actually hurts the environment when you buy them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165946	The questioner apostates. Then we'll move on to the next one, and that's Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204165951	Sir. René Gade correctly mentions that it is approx. 50% of the cars that are being sold today, which are now receiving a lower registration fee. That means that in future it will be more than 50 per cent, because more will then buy them because they have become cheaper. But that's a funny argument. We have the world's highest registration fee in Denmark, and because we have it, it is only the 50%. most well-proposed in Denmark, which can afford to buy a car of a certain size, from the lower middle class and up, i.e. as regards the size of the car. That is why we must never reduce that tax, because it is again the more well-proposed or at least the 50%. wealthiest people who get a relief, and for God's sake, they can't. But it is because we have such a high registration fee that only the people can buy them. The most sold car in Sweden is a Volvo V 70, which today in Denmark is considered a luxury car, but it is only because there is such a high registration fee on it. The most sold car in Denmark is a Volkswagen up!
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170058	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170059	In fact, I think that, and it is completely without empirical evidence, there are many of the Liberal Alliance's voters who would be quite okay to maintain these charges if you saw that you had a welfare system that provided the benefits that you once expected and so you didn't have to use private hospital, or whatever else you could do, and where else you can buy yourself from it with money. So I think it's wrong to say that because you go against this, which in no way benefits anyone but people who already have what they need, you're just after the rich. No, we're not. Just don't hurt others, you get to buy those cars, and it does climatewise. It is simply a calculation that is bad for the climate that we are making this legislation, and we cannot support it. It's not like you have to be after the rich. There are many who would not be described as rich around the kitchen tables at home, who also benefit from that arrangement, so that is not what we are looking for. It's just skewed for the environment, and it's skewed socially, because those who most need help don't get any help from this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170154	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170155	What we are doing here has an extremely small and very, very marginal impact on the environment. It has an extremely small effect. On the other hand, it has a very, very great effect on the private welfare of the Danes. Well, we can afford to cut the tax in 2016 by 1.2 billion. kr., but for the Treasury it only costs 350 million. kr., because there are behavior effects and dynamic effects in it. People buy a bigger car and so on, and then more money comes in the treasury because of it. There is an extreme loss of welfare in Denmark, and that is the correct word. That is the word used by economists, that is to say, an extreme loss of welfare, as a result of the fact that we only have a lasting 200 million. kr. extra in the Treasury via this part of the tax, but the Danes lose 1 billion. kr. on this part of the tax. There is a welfare loss of 800 million. kr. As a result of this tax that we are now lowering. It's really, really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170252	The hallway from the 1.2 billion. kr. for the 350 million. kr. After drain is just including a greater consumption and a greater purchase of larger cars and a higher emissions of CO2 It is certainly not what we get paid for, but that is what we are against. So I don't think we're gonna agree. It is simply fundamental that, in order to be able to participate in something, we must have a surplus on the social, environmental and economic bottom line. I fully recognise that when we talk about fiscal law and taxation, the economic bottom line must be very, very substantial and very important. I recognise that, and that is why I am trying to accommodate it where I can now. But it simply does not make any profit on any of the bottom lines for us, for those we care about, precisely those who are in need of money, those who are socially at the lower end.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170333	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see any rapporteur from the Radical Left. This means that it is the SF's rapporteur and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170349	This bill, as has also been said earlier, is both socially skewed and climate-wise completely out in hemp, and although we do not talk much about it in Denmark, the rest of the world is talking about Paris and what is going to happen there. It is as if a great many people have not realized in our own little butter hole what enormous challenges we are facing. We are discussing tax relief and tax relief for the richest, while, as a government, together with the bourgeois support parties, we are slaughtering housing benefits for the poorest pensioners and there is a ceiling on cash aid and there is no ambition whatsoever in the whole green area and in the whole climate area. I think it is very poor and it is very, very short-sighted, and of course SF is against the bill. One quarter of global CO2 Then you can say that Denmark is a small country, and you can ask what it means in the big accounting. But it matters, and that is why 950 NGOs yesterday shamed Denmark as a Fossil of the Day-land. That's something we can be proud of. We need to change our transport system fundamentally. I was born and raised in South Jutland and have lived many years in North Jutland, and there are many places in the country where you need a car, and you must have that in the future. But it has to be some other cars than today, and when you do this trick, you don't give those who don't have a lot of money an opportunity to save some money, but you give to the half who can afford the more expensive cars, so we get some bigger cars, and many of them will also emit more CO2 It says black and white. So this stunt is an attack on the environment, against action against air pollution, against health and against a more social distribution, and it is simply manipulative to say that this is something that is of great benefit to ordinary families of children. For it is they who can buy the most expensive cars that get a tax relief of several hundred thousand kroner. So much has been said from up here, and we know very well that there is a majority in favour of this bill. I just think it is a pity, because we could create a completely different tax system where we said: okay, people who have many cars are still gone, and they want to buy a delicious Tesla, etc., and they must also be allowed to do so. Some may have a little less money and buy a middle-class electric car, others have even less money and buy some of the smaller cars, which are also being developed all the time, and then there are plenty of people who can never afford a car. But it is not the intelligent change that is under way here, and it is, of course, self-criticism in relation to when we were in government ourselves, because then we could not. But this isn't just standing still, it's going in the wrong direction. So I think it is a very unfortunate and old-fashioned and short-term bill that we are discussing today, and I think it will add something to the black reputation Denmark is getting abroad. We're not wearing the driver's shirt anymore. It's been a while since we were known as the green forerunner country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170807	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170810	There are so many things I could address, but the first thing I want to address is that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that it is manipulation to say that this is going to benefit ordinary families. Well, how can you say that it's manipulation that an Opel Astra will be DKK 9,000? cheaper that a Peugeot 3008 will be 18,000 kroner. cheaper, or that a Volvo V70, which is the dream car for a lot of families, will be 28,000 DKK. cheaper? It is certainly true that it will be cheaper for ordinary families with children. That's one thing. The second point: can Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen confirm that for approx. One and a half years ago, she and I were on a radio programme in which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen spoke in favour of raising registration fees for small cars? It had to be higher because too many people drove around, said Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. High school students in North Jutland got them from their parents instead of taking the bus, so they had to be much more expensive, so there were not so many. And now Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says it's too bad they won't be cheaper with this. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204170918	No, what I am saying is that it is a pity that you do not create a system so that the environmentally friendly, climate-friendly cars become cheaper. And then I say, when you choose to do this anyway, it's one half of the car owners who will get something out of it. I don't know if sir. Ole Birk Olesen has a different definition of ordinary families for children than I do. But there are many types of ordinary families for children. Well, my mom made, I think, 23,000 kroner. It wasn't because we were poor, but it just didn't afford it. Then there are others, for example. Two unskilled, a mother and a father who will then buy cheaper cars. That's how a lot of people in this country will get nothing out of it. On the other hand, there are some who buy very expensive cars, and they must be allowed to do so, because there is a free choice. But politically we must try to create a framework, and we say that is what we have a tax system for; it is to try to trick people into making more sensible choices for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171022	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171023	Well, it's really nice to hear about the change of car charges that SF keeps talking about. SF had the tax office, was it for 3 years? Now we come here and do something to ensure that ordinary families can also afford to move from the little up! up to maybe a Golf, a Skoda Octavia or the like, because it is made cheaper and not coated with a 180 percent charge. And then we have to hear from SF that we had to change the registration fee instead, after SF has been in government and has had the tax office for 3 years without doing anything. That's amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171106	Well, that's what I started by saying. I just don't think that the solution to not finding a solution at that time is to go the completely opposite way by adding votes to a bill that will ensure much more CO2 Well, it's not just to stand still it's to go completely the opposite way, in completely the opposite direction. We would like the whole system to be reformed, and we would also like to do so broadly in the Danish Parliament, but it must benefit the most climate-friendly cars, also at the cheap end, so that people who do not have so much money can buy a car that does not contribute to CO2 I do not think that this Parliament takes seriously enough the biggest challenge we have at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171158	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171205	This is a fantastic suggestion. Respect for the Liberal Alliance, too, in order to get results back under the Finance Act in this area, because it is of particular benefit to ordinary families that we have reduced the registration fee from 180 to 150 per cent, because what does that mean for ordinary families? It means more mobility, and it means that you get easier to get to and from work; it means that you get easier to be a family person; it means that you get easier to work in your community outside the big cities. So it is a plus-plus gain for ordinary families, for ordinary people that it is now becoming cheaper to buy also ordinary family cars. It means something to the environment, it means something to safety and it means something to comfort. And why is that so crucial? Well, if we want a Denmark in balance, if we want a situation where families are given the opportunity to have a sensible and decent life outside Copenhagen and Aarhus too, then there must be the possibility that you have a car that you can drive children to sports in which you can get to work and which you can use when shopping. I do not think there is any contradiction between the fact that we have a very well-functioning collective transport system, while at the same time ensuring better cars for the Danes. I don't think it's each other's opposites. I would like to help invest in public transport, so that there are better rail links and better bus connections in the local areas. But what is crucial for ordinary families and ordinary people is that you get some cheaper cars. We would have liked to have gone even further than the registration rate. That was then not possible during the negotiations that were, but our goal is still to reduce the 180 per cent that is now coming down to 150 to at least 105 per cent. This means that there is no distinction, and in the end we just have to make cars cheaper, because it benefits all Danes without exception. If I am going to try to reflect in this way on the debate on equality and inequality and the debate on distribution, which has also taken place during the debate, then I do not understand it. After all, nobody loses anything by the fact that ordinary families can now buy a Ford Mondeo. After all, nobody loses anything by being able to buy a car type just higher than the one you had before. There aren't any people who lose anything about it. The environment also benefits from what security benefits, and families benefit from it. So if you're really arguing about this, it's almost just such a jantelovsargument that you're supposed to be against it. Then it would almost have to be such an envy argument that we were opposed to lowering the registration fee. Because there aren't any people who lose anything on it. It is, moreover, a relatively inexpensive pleasure because of the dynamic effects of lowering the registration fee. So, yeah, you could make history shorter. I am doing so now by saying that, of course, we support the proposal, because it is part of the budget law, and it is completely escaping with conservative thoughts about lowering the registration tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171523	A brief comment on Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171528	Thank you. Now the Conservatives are the green conscience of the blue blocs and the voice of the climate, and we are together on this 40-percent target in 2020, which the Climate Council has just established is, moreover, a very good, very good and very smart business. It is also very wise if we look at it a little further, namely that when we move towards 2030, we have to realise even greater CO2 This is a bit of what this bill is about, because the non-quota sectors are among other things. the transport sector, and we need to address the transport sector if we are to achieve both the short-term but also the long-term climate targets. After all, we know that we will soon be subject to quite significant reduction commitments in the non-quota sector from the European Union. This bill will then increase CO2 What does the rapporteur think, and what does the Conservative People's Party think in the longer term? How are we going to deal with this problem in relation to transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171640	I think there will be mixed apples and bananas here. The fact that we are giving families the opportunity to buy a little better cars, which means that you can get to work and you can have your family at home does not, of course, contradict the fact that we have to invest in public transport, that we also have to make tough environmental demands, that, for example, we have to make strict environmental demands. I believe that something more should have been done for the electric cars in relation to the agreement that we dealt with a few hours ago in this Chamber. So we have towering ambitions in the area of climate change, but ambition must go hand in hand with the fact that we can still afford to finance them. And growth in Denmark depends on the fact that families have the opportunity to live in different places in Denmark, that you have the opportunity to get to and from work, and that you have mobility at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171725	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171727	It's not mixing apples and pears or bananas or whatever it was. The point here is that things are connected, and if we are going to solve climate problems, we need to take a look and not fall into these sector gaps, where we are looking at things in isolation. Then we'll get nowhere. Then we do what we are doing today, that we adopt a legislative proposal, or you adopt a legislative proposal that increases the CO2 point, as the Climate Council report also shows, is very clear. We can't solve this with public transport. It is road transport that we need to do something about, and we need to change investments from petrol cars to electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171814	You cannot put it up like that, because it is clear that we would be a cleaner country, an environmentally cleaner country if all cars were abolished and we all drove a horse cart again. But I do not think the rapporteur is interested in that either. So the way we can finance our green growth and climate ambition is that we still have a sensible labour market and also have growth in business. Denmark is still away a pioneering country in the green area. We think that the government has been a little harsh in the green area compared to some of the savings they have made, but if we compare ourselves with most other countries, we are still away from the front country, and that goes hand in hand with the growth and development of jobs here at home, and mobility also means a great deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171854	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204171855	Yeah, it's a matter of this, that it doesn't hurt anyone. I am thinking that, apart from the environmental damage, I simply cannot understand why the rapporteur does not think that it is going to hurt anyone, because our welfare system is surely a single cake. So it may well be that nobody gets hurt, in that those who buy the smallest cars do not get taken away, but everything else just will be the case that when somebody else gets something, at least some take away from this whole welfare cake, where they are the ones who do not have so much, at least not take anything in this round. I don't really always have a problem with that if it just creates something if it's an investment in something better. But as I have also said in the past, I simply cannot see what we are creating with this, except that it is a perk. It doesn't promote anything. Quality of life was said before or now I cannot even remember what the term was with the Liberal Alliance. But it does nothing but a quality of life that is being increased by some relatively wealthy people, some who at least have no problems financially. I am just thinking: can the rapporteur really think that nothing is being taken from anyone in the overall cake?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172004-2	Yes, it is a relatively cheap proposal. Despite the figures that have otherwise been made available from several different parties, it only costs a net cost of approx. 360 million kr., and it's falling over the years. It is no money in the overall state budget, so this is a very, very cheap proposal. But why does it matter that it doesn't matter to anyone else? This is because the welfare of Danish society is increasing. That is also why there is a greater supply of labour by lowering the registration fee, because then we can be more mobile. This means that there are more people who can come to work and you can also take care of your family at home. So that's how it works. One can make an account that says: how much does it cost in terms of finance? But then you can also make an account next to it, as we do, which says: What does it mean in terms of welfare? There it is plus-plus-plus, because more in the families are given the opportunity to get to work while at the same time caring for their family at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172052	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172053	I am very much in favour of looking at the derived effects and synergies, so I will not deny that there will be more jobs. But I'm thinking it's still an equation that it's a little hard to say is a fact, because it has something to do with the flexibility you want to create, I guess. I have not just answered that question as to whether it is correct. I just think it is essential to say that this is so bad for the environment. For some of the savings that will be in relation to the 1.2 billion. kr. that brings them down to 350 million. kr., comes just by that we pollute even more. There I have to say: it just does not rhyme with the Conservative People's Party that I see at the moment, and it annoys me a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172128-2	I welcome the objectivity of the dialogue here as well, but as a Green Conservative, I believe that it is better to allow growth to go hand in hand with climate improvements and an active environmental policy than to close your eyes and turn the time back 10-20 years, perhaps even 30 years, and have a completely different type of transport system. The fact that we are investing in growth means that, among other things, we are investing in growth. If we reduce registration fees and many other things we can do, as the Conservative People's Party has proposed in the area of business, then we can also afford to invest in climate improvements and in having a high ambition in the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172208	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172209	You could have made this change of registration fee, so you'd have promoted the sale of cars that run a long way on the liter. That weighting could have been made, and I am rather annoyed that Conservatives did not push it through, because I really believe that the overall budget law will lead to a CO2 and that makes the task we have to solve together bigger. Conservatives have, of course, tabled a motion for a resolution calling for us to stick to our objective of reducing CO2 emissions, which is why it is rather a pity that the Finance Act includes elements that increase CO2 I can actually come up with instruments, but I can also see the outlines that in many areas of traffic and agriculture it may be a challenge to agree with the Conservatives. I would, for example, like: I would like to suggest that we reduce the speed of cities and motorways. It would reduce CO2 but can the Conservative rapporteur reveal where the Conservatives see that CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172321	We have a whole host of tools for that. There's a whole palette that we've also been out presenting before. We are sticking to the target of a 40% reduction, which, moreover, we have indicated in an agreement with the previous government and the Enhedslisten, which was also included in that agreement. We'll hold on to that. There is, of course, a majority outside the government on this point, and we must put that into practice and put it into practice. We have also said, and this is linked to this discussion, that it must not cost jobs and that it must not cost competitiveness. We must keep that addition in mind, because we believe that things go hand in hand. Let us take the discussion on the speed limits. If you lowered the speed limits or went in and closed your eyes and like turned the time back to the time of the horse cars and abolished all the cars that I mentioned to a colleague before, you would save a lot of CO2 but we wouldn't be able to finance our wind turbines in Denmark. We would not be able to finance our biomass; we would not be able to invest in hydropower and geothermal and all sorts of other things if we did not also have any growth and some jobs in Denmark. That's why things stick together and go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172431	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172433	I think that the registration tax on cars could have been made without including horse carriages, absolutely, but we have to say that we have a major task ahead of us. I look forward to it very much, and I have a lot of suggestions. I think we have a common task of getting as much involvement of civil society as possible so that it is not just in small political circles that we have to find the CO2 that I look forward to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172505	We would very much like to take up that ball, because we fully agree with that and I look forward very much to that dialogue. Regarding the registration fee, I would like to say that we would also have liked to see a more ambitious restructuring of the registration fee under way, so that not only had we closed our eyes and reduced the percentages. We do not get the registration fee completely removed, but we can do a more intelligent restructuring of it. After all, the government has also mentioned this in the government base, and of course we also have some concrete proposals on this, where one of the parameters is, of course, the environment and climate when the registration fee is to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172535	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172542	First of all, I would like to thank you for the approval of the legislative proposal by a majority of parties. These are the parties behind the financial agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. And as most people who have followed the debate have probably realised, the draft law is, in its simplicity, about reducing the high registration tax rate from 180%. 150 per cent. The Danish registration fee is among the world's highest, and that is why we in the government want to make it cheaper for Danes to buy family-friendly and roadworthy cars. I can say that although we reduce the registration fee from 180%. to 150 per cent, Denmark will continue to be one of the countries that unfortunately, I would also say where we pay the highest tax on owning and driving a car. The tax reduction means that a medium-sized family car will be DKK 10,000-20,000. cheaper. At the same time, this means that in future the Danes will have better opportunities to buy some newer cars with better equipment and hopefully also better safety. A reduction in the registration fee is estimated to have a positive effect on labour supply. What has been calculated is that the effect is in the order of 700 full-time people per year, and I think that is also part of the discussion we have here today, i.e. that this is something that creates employment. I should, of course, like to thank you for all the answers received by the Ministry of Taxation, despite the fact that the proposal has been in a very short hearing. However, this is due to the financial law process and the fact that a great many of the consultation parties also acknowledge that when you have decided politically that registration fees are being reduced, it is a matter of getting it adopted quickly so that they can actually adjust to it, otherwise the car market will be completely stalled. However, it is still regrettable that there has not been a four-week consultation period in the draft law. I look forward, of course, to the further examination of the proposal that will be, and I will answer questions both today and also in committee. If I have to reflect a little bit in this way on the debate we have had here today, it is true, and that is also the answer, that when the registration tax is reduced, a little more cars may be sold, and perhaps larger cars are sold, and this may lead to a slightly higher emissions of CO2 but the fact that people buy larger cars does not necessarily lead in themselves to a higher emissions of CO2 It may be more environmentally friendly cars that they buy. It also makes it cheaper to buy large luxury electric cars, such as those in the United Kingdom. a Tesla. They are also favourably favoured by the low rates of taxation. So that coupling, which I can hear some left-wing parties have to say that this is an environmental disaster and that one cannot be aware of doing anything like this at all, while at the same time a climate summit is being held in Paris, I have to say that it is really a little out of place. This will, of course, lead to increased emissions of CO2 2 I think this is a good day for those who want Danes to have the opportunity to carry their way around by car and who also want Danes to have the opportunity to buy larger cars and a little safer cars and a little more family-friendly cars than was the case before. I want you to welcome this bill. Although there is some dissatisfaction among some of the parties in the Folketing, I have to say that when I visit people in the country, car dealers and others, you are actually happy that this proposal is coming, and so it also creates a little employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204172959	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173002	Yeah, the car dealers are happy. I don't think it's gonna come as a big surprise to anyone. Then it was said that it creates employment. I hope we agree that this is structural employment, that is to say a little magical work, which no one really knows will ever turn into real employment. I do not see how the fact that some intermediate and very expensive cars become cheaper should create more jobs in Denmark. The result is shown to be something you have to be employed over in the Ministry of Finance's department of calculation, i.e. those who also calculated on the effect of the benefit reform to arrive at. But my question is actually very simple: does the rapporteur, or apologize, the Minister now have to say that there is a fair social distribution profile in this, i.e. in the Finance Act? You take money out of the pockets of folk pensioners, thousands of folk pensioners, and then you spend the money this way, i.e. among other things. to make it up to millions of dollars cheaper to buy the most expensive models of sports cars. Is this a social profile of which the Minister is proud?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173112	I do not accept the premise of the question. This is a bill of finance that the bourgeois parties have made. There, quite a lot of money has been given for welfare, especially for the elderly, and it has been a wish of the Danish People's Party. Then there are other parties that have had other wishes. It has been one of the main concerns of the Liberal Alliance and, as I understand it, the Conservatives too, that we have to pay less in registration fees, and I fully understand that wish. We pay the world's highest registration fee, and even with this reduction, which is quite significant, we will still be away absolutely in the group of countries where you pay the most to own and drive around in a car. I believe basically that we live in a country where public transport is a good complement in the larger cities, but outside the larger cities you simply need to get around by car. This allows you to buy a slightly bigger car, and I don't think that's a social side. This connection from housing benefits to the elderly and to cheaper cars you can't make.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173218	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173219	Of course you can. After all, you told me yourself that with this finance bill, you had to fund everything you came up with from gifts. Of course it's connected. You're gonna need 1.2 billion. kr. Before rerun back on this, and since, according to your own words, there was no money in the box, you can discuss it and you had to go and find it. So where did you find that money? Yeah, you found them, among other things. by going out and asking the folk pensionists to return DKK 7,000-10,000 to one of the groups in Denmark who has at least one alleralleraller. a year or more. Well, can we not get an answer: is it a good social profile from the government's point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173300	Again: I simply do not buy the premise for the question. It is not surprising that Enhedslisten will not make it cheaper to drive by car. At least in the capital, Enhedslisten doesn't like cars at all. Then all people should be forced to drive by bus or by bicycle, and there I just have to say that it is possible, it can be done in the capital, but it cannot be done in the rest of the country. It is quite a fair view to want cheaper cars. That is what some of the bourgeois parties want, and that is what this proposal gives us. I think we can fully support the social balance of the Finance Act, where there are quite a lot of millions for the elderly, which affect and accommodate some of the weakest in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173343	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173345	Enhedslisten likes people better than cars, that's right. I have to say on top of the debate here that the conciliation circle on the Finance Act has not been able to find intelligent solutions when it comes to redeploying the registration fee. It has not been possible to give priority to the environment, so that a solution could be found that would lead to less energy consumption, less particulate pollution, and I think that is actually very important. Here in Copenhagen it is said that one dies a week because of particle contamination. One could have chosen a solution that had weighted some CO2 It could also have been done with some foolishness in these registration fees, where people who buy a car with legal brakes get a deduction from the registration fee because there are legal brakes in the new car they buy. Well, it seems quite grotesque. However, I think there are some obligations when you are a minister and when there is a conciliation circle that will not think of anything intelligent, namely that you then involve the whole of the great administrative apparatus in finding sensible solutions. So I am actually a little disappointed that the Minister has not come up with a better solution and has persuaded the conciliation circle to come up with something more intelligent. Doesn't the Minister have a few comments on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173453-2	In other words, what has been agreed in the context of the financial law negotiations has been agreed with the parties, assisted by the officials of the central administration, who help with the professional basis. Officials are not politicians. It is a political decision that has been sought by the Liberal Alliance, a concession they have wanted to obtain, a compromise that has been reached. The Danish People's Party has been given a dignified billion for a wide range of areas in which the elderly have been taken into account, as the Danish People's Party had promised in the election campaign in order to honour their electoral vows. The Liberal Alliance has got something on the registration fee, and I think that there is an excellent social balance in that respect. Then I think that we should not think that making a major change in car taxes is something that is being done around the table at the financial negotiations. You have to spend some more time on that, and so if you want to lower registration fees, I think that is an excellent way of doing it, with what is contained in this bill. But I find it hard to imagine that the Enhedslisten, no matter how we did it, would be excited to do anything about the registration fee, because one basically prefers that people drive a bus or a bike than by car.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173555	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173557	It is always a little unreasonable to put words into other people's mouths, especially when you have the last answer. I think that Enhedslisten has said many times that, of course, we must have passenger transport and carism in this country. There are many places that the minister knows as well as I do where it makes no sense to have buses and trains, and there you need a car, but some cars other than today. I'd like to ask the minister is quite simple question. I think it is. Does the Minister believe that climate change and global warming are the biggest challenge we all face?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173634-2	Well, that depends on what kind of term you're talking about. Within a few years, I think there are problems that are greater, but in the very long term there are challenges in the climate area, and we will have to deal with them and have to find solutions to them, and we will also have to find lasting solutions, but we also have to have what we in the government call green realism. If we are to reduce CO2 but I fully recognise that the challenges of climate change and global warming are a problem, but in the medium and long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173729	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173730	It is very good to set it up. For the reason that President Obama says it is the biggest problem, the reason why a large number of world leaders say it is so much more than climate and green transition for us who care about it, it is also about a lot of things that you care about. Therefore, I just think that when the Minister talks about the most cost-effective way of dealing with this problem, you should listen to your own Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173823	I think that perhaps what distinguishes part of the left and then at least my party and the government is the question of whether we should go Danish alone. And there I have to say that I recognise that we have a challenge with climate change, but we have to solve them with the rest of the world countries, and there we can do CO2 in Denmark. So there we have to see things in a context, and that is why we have to have green realism, and then, hopefully together, we have to solve this climate challenge that we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173857	Thank you. And then I'm sorry that I cheated on Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the second brief remark before, so he gets it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173904	Thank you. I understand from the Minister that what is about to be adopted here on the registration tax is not what solves the CO2 problem. Now we are a number of parties who would like to state in a short time that the 40 per cent CO2 so I would like to hear from the Minister for Tax whether this is something that we can expect him to go into and whether we can have a process where we can make use of the strong administrative apparatus that the Minister has in his back.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173949	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204173950	Yes, you are welcome to ask various questions, and then it is my duty as Minister to answer the Folketing, so ask questions, I can say that calmly. We also have a desire to live up to the climate commitments, but we will do so with a green realism, and also without undue damage to competitiveness and we go Danish alone and lose Danish jobs, while the countries around us do not live up to their obligations. There must be a connection between what we do in Denmark and what we do in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174023	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174024	I think there are many of us who are only now beginning to understand these climate challenges and how much they actually make us hear it from all over the world. We hear it from Paris right now, and we hear it from many politicians here at home and also regularly from the Left. I would like to ask the Minister whether the people of Denmark can in any way see from the policy being pursued right now that there are some of the things we are doing in Denmark that are good for the environment, and here I am thinking in particular of the tax side, when we are sitting in the Committee on Taxation and discussing it, and let us stick to it, otherwise it will be almost impossible. I find it incredibly difficult to see it, and that's why we might get a little skinny in this debate. Because we have heard several times today that these are peppers we are talking about and that this is a small thing and that it may not be where we should be doing things in terms of climate. It is just going to be incredibly difficult not to take it into account in all the considerations, because there is now simply no place to take account of the climate and the environment. In this case, it could have been done by taking account only of the large climate-friendly cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174131	Yes, you could, but you have chosen to make a general reduction in the registration fee. That means, I think, that if you buy the premise • and I understand that you have a large part of the left and also in the alternative • that the Danes care about the climate and the environment, then when they buy a car, they are also willing to think about it and not only on their purses, and that is what I think is liberal, it is reasonable that we give it freedom of choice. I think that this government is doing a lot of things that are good for the climate and for the environment, and I think that if you compare Denmark with a large number of other countries in Europe, you will see that we are leading the climate and the environment. We are the leader in terms of renewable energy, and we will also be the leader in the coming years. If I may mention something that we are doing in the area of taxation, I can say that we are one of them. together with the Alternative has created the green housing job scheme, where you can now obtain deductions for a number of things that also have a climate and environmental effect. For example: If you install a barn slot in your house, you can use the housing job scheme for it, and you can also use it for a number of other things, among others. climate protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174238	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174239	That's exactly what I'd like to come up with. In other words, when we provide some relief, when we give people more money between our hands, I think it is interesting that we feel that it is an investment because it does something better for society, and there is, for example, precisely a housing job scheme or something that lowers something that creates greater social equality or does something good for the environment, and then there is some direction you set. I would just like to repeat for the last time today that we are giving something similar to fringes to those who already have so much, and that is not because it is luxury, but it is some who do not need help right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174315	You can discuss that. I think there are a lot of children's families who can now buy a slightly safer and larger family car, which thinks it is very nice and is happy with it, so I do not quite buy the premise. It is therefore my impression that in the alternative, which is a party where you believe in collective consciousness in relation to climate and energy, you must also have confidence that this is what the Danes want to give priority to when deciding how to spend their money, and they buy themselves a new car or a red steak or something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174355	Sir. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174356	I should like to return to the financing part of the question here. The Minister must be able to confirm that throughout the discussions on the Finance Act one has worked on a principle that one had to get in every penny that one would give out again in the context of the agreement but that, as a starting point, it was not thought that there was anything to negotiate with. I think we can discuss that too, but that was the government's premise. It is also true, therefore, that, had the tax relief not been made, as is the case here, there would not have been a need to make the same savings in education, in research, in housing benefits for the elderly as we have mentioned, and in various other welfare areas. I do not know which one should be pointed out, but I would ask the Minister of Taxation to confirm that it would have been possible to take this DKK 200-360 million. less from those areas, if you wouldn't have given this tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174502	Well, you can only spend money once, so I can confirm that you can only do so and that a financial law is a priority, but also a compromise where there are no parties to get it all, because there are no parties to have 90 seats. I think that is basically very good for our people's rule, for our society and for our country. But there is also the basis for this financial law a desire to increase the cake, and therefore there is a positive effect on employment. I think that if I am not mistaken, then the 2016 Finance Act increases structural employment by 1,500 people. This can be compared with the previous government Finance Act for 2015, which had a negative employment impact of 1,000 people. So our desire is also to try to make the cake bigger, to create more growth and prosperity, and better conditions for businesses, so that in the longer term more money can come, among other things. also to care and welfare for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174604	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174605	I have to say that I have the exact opposite view of what the government's financial law is really about, namely that it is very short-sighted and cuts down on many of the things that would actually bring our society forward. But it's a major financial bill discussion. I welcome the confirmation that some of these savings and, in my opinion, reductions could have been avoided if this tax relief had not been granted. That is what we have chosen to do anyway. My question now is: when you choose to put some money into facilitating registration fees, what is the reasoning behind lightening it in the top and not moving up the scale and, so to speak, also benefitting the cheapest cars? What is the reasoning behind this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174646	Well, there's no secret that it's been the Liberal Alliance that's had this as their priority. This has been the concession they have wanted and negotiated in order to obtain in the Finance Act, and therefore they have also had a great influence on how it has been implemented. It's a victory for the Liberal Alliance. I think that if other parties had been included in the Finance Act, for example. Social democracy, or if the Left had had 90 seats, then perhaps we would have done it differently. But that is the compromise that we have negotiated, and I think it is a compromise that I, as a tax minister and a member of the government, can fully stand up for. But it is the case that it might be that others would have done differently if they had negotiated the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174722	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174736	The debate is open. Sir. Per Husted of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204174751	Thank you. The bill we are now considering is on the reduction of NO x in particular. It will benefit a number of very energy-intensive companies in particular. An example of a very energy-intensive company that benefits from this is Aalborg Portland. They can look forward to a tax reduction of approx. 12 million kr. according to their own information. To this the director of Aalborg Portland says: We now believe that there will be better conditions of competition for energy intensive production in Denmark and we will therefore press the button for launching a number of investments in the coming years. We expect increased competitiveness to lead to additional jobs in the factory, and a number of additional jobs will be provided by subcontractors. We in the Socialist Group are very pleased that we can see these investments and we look forward very much to following the investments. It is also important for their investment that there is a good deal of work in the Danish economy, so there is a need for e.g.: cement. There has been a lot of focus on this from the former Socialist Government, where there have been a large number of initiatives that have helped to boost both private and public construction. The relief of NO x We have listened a lot to it, and we fully agree with their arguments that Denmark should continue to be a production country with many jobs in industry. L 70 can make a contribution to this, as we saw with the example of Aalborg Portland. Taxation in the energy sector is probably one of the most complicated areas on which we legislate here in Parliament. This is partly due to the fact that when we make changes it has major consequences and it is very necessary to take a very long-term view of it. When we made the energy settlement in 2012, it was very sensible to carry out a total tax analysis where a number of ministries are involved and where the tax minister has the honour of sitting at the table end. The analysis should have been completed already in 2014, but it has been postponed several times, last by the current government, and the last thing we have heard is that the report is expected in 2016. With the legislative proposal that we have to take a position on now, we have actually started on the changes in our tax policy, and that is good. However, we are also very much looking forward to the report coming so that we can launch more initiatives so that we can create more reasonable tax systems in the field of energy and, above all, adapt our taxes and taxes to the common ambition to create a greener Denmark. We are very much looking forward to doing so, and with that attitude we want to support the L 70 wholeheartedly and look forward to further cooperation on the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175106	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175109	I find it interesting that the rapporteur drew an example from Aalborg Portland that they had the prospect of saving 12 million. kr. in NO x I 2014 Aalborg Portland made a profit of 812 million. kr., so with this they have the prospect that they can increase their profits by about 11⁄2%. So I do not think that is what matters whether that company survives in the fierce competition. Nor is it the PRS expenditure where the last years paid 36 million. kr. I sometimes think that we should be careful not to be too uncritical of business when they come and say that they need certain things. I think that Danish industry is very comfortable with having tough environmental requirements so that they can deliver products that can meet some green requirements when exporting products from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175207	There is a great deal of truth in what the questioner is saying here. I find it so difficult to take a profit from a year for a company and say that is absolutely exactly why. After all, we have companies that are cross-border and what we know very well is that it is an international competition that we are in and that Danish companies must have some conditions that make them competitive. But I also respect and accept the background of the questioner for what he says there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175237	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. No, thank you? Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175241	I'd like to follow up. Now I am elected in Aalborg, when there was the debate about NO x It is clear that you think and think that when this company, which is important to the city, says that it would be quite disastrous that people should be fired and that you might have to close and so on, we know that sometimes it is theater order that comes from the companies, but of course you are also considering whether it is right, because none of us gets anything out of Aalborg Portland closing and reopening in Poland. But what happened when they got away a little cheaper was that they have never succeeded better afterwards. The best period in Aalborg Portland's history has been the time after which they invested 600 million. kr. and employ hundreds of people and have big plans for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175352	To me, the investments were decided before they were made. I do not believe that there are direct investments related to the fact that the levy was raised. And that's a real consideration. But sometimes we have to say that when we make a tax which, as in this case, exactly hits individual companies very hard, we sometimes have to breathe and ask: was it right? But basically we agree with that is such a very Porterian way of thinking, I was just about to say that environmental requirements are actually quite good at creating development, but in this case we hit a single company really hard. We have listened a lot to what trade unions and employers have said and actually tried to follow their attitudes this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175439	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175440	Now NO x We are listening e.g. also sometimes to Funen horticultures. It must always be a balance. But when we introduced this tax, and it was under a SF tax minister, there was a lot of trouble about it. I had doubts myself. Would that mean the end of a very, very large and important business or not? And I just have to say that the day when the right would put forward a proposal to abolish it here in the Parliamentary Chamber it was six months or a year ago that these figures had arrived exactly the day before. So, of course, it's not a result of the tax, but those figures came well after the company got this tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175533	You can sit and look at a result for a company and take a single year. Then we were in the year you refer to, after the tax in the deepest crisis we can possibly imagine. And then you go watch today. I simply do not think it is quite right to put it up in this way, precisely because there are other things that are involved than this particular tax. We've actually seen that, and we can, among other things. I would like to thank the previous government for the fact that we have come out of the crisis and that, of course, means a lot to a company like Aalborg Portland. You can also see that on their bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175610	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175618	Thank you. This bill is also, like many of the previous ones, part of a financial agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, so we support the Danish People's Party, but not only because we are in an agreement, but also because we were actually opposed in 2012, when they chose to fivefold the tax. After all, it was a financial agreement between S, RV, SF and Enhedslisten, where we are happy to see that some of the parties today have also realised that the effects of a five-fold increase in taxes may not have been so lucky. In the Danish People's Party, as I said, we were against five-folding of the tax already then, because it damaged Denmark's competitiveness for these companies, because it was an extra cost and for some companies a rather high additional cost, among others. Aalborg Portland has been mentioned, the market gardeners and so on, and so it costs a great many jobs to reduce competitiveness in this way. What really happens with this bill is that you actually just roll it back again, so we're gonna come back for the $5. per kg emitted NO x per. kg emitted NO x The goal is actually quite logical, that you want to roll back the damage from the old government and thereby improve competitiveness again and thereby also preserve the Danish jobs. Then there is one thing I think is important in such a debate, namely that it is a little naive from my point of view to believe that pollution stops at the border, and I do not believe that Denmark alone can solve the problem of NO x It has not helped anything in the sense of a discharge of NO x So you can simply say whether it is better for a company to pollute in Poland or Germany than it is in Denmark, and I think it is not. So it is no good that we in Denmark alone believe that we can solve the world's climate problems. Of course, we have to do our part to help keep it down and reduce emissions of NO x I know the logic when it was introduced was that it was said that the polluter should pay for the pollution, but that's just not how this NO x of the NO x is equal to 90 per cent. comes from abroad, and not even all the 10% that are in Denmark are subject to the tax because the emissions from cars are exempt, so only stationary plants are subject to the tax. That means that it's a pretty small part of those that emit NO x x So there's been a pretty limited environmental effect in this, you have to say. In conclusion, we in the Danish People's Party, of course, as I started by saying, support the draft law, which brings the change back to what it actually was before 2011.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175948	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204175952	I can understand to some extent that we had this discussion when the previous government introduced this NO x and there it was Aalborg Portland that was also thought of. But I find it strange that we have it today, because, as I mentioned before, one year ago it was actually on my birthday, on December 1, 2014, there was a big story in all the major newspapers and in Nordjyske, the most important newspaper, that Aalborg Portland would invest 6 billion. kr. in total and alone spend 600 million. kr. to expand the plant in Aalborg plus additional employees even though they had said a few years earlier that they threatened to close down. And the 600 million. kr., which they wanted to invest in the factory, should include: used to reduce fossil fuels and other emissions and pollution. Therefore, I just have to say that what we have become good at in Denmark is earning money and growing, while we are at the forefront. So this is not an example of how it can be done plus that NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180113	It doesn't change the basics, namely that you hit a very narrow group that expands NO x of NO x And out of the 10% coming from Denmark, it is a very small part that the permanent institutions stand for. And then there is a wrong premise in this question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, because she assumes that it is going well for Aalborg Portland because this tax has been introduced. Well, shouldn't you just raise it again or five times it again if it has such a good effect? I don't think you'd think that was a good idea in Aalborg Portland. So I don't think we can conclude that because there was a five fold of NO x kr. It could be that there are many other parameters that make you have a better turnover. It may be the business cycle. I think it is quite logical that, if the tax had not been introduced at the time, they would have saved 12 million. kr., which they could have either spent at lower prices or to have some money to invest for, and which they could use to create some growth in Aalborg Portland. So I actually think it's a wrong premise to put it up as if because you've fivefolded NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180211	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180213	That's not what I'm saying at all. But I say that even if you fivefolded NO x So evidently despite it, despite the polluter pays principle, despite the fact that NO x kr. That's 600 million. kr. alone in the factory and the recruitment of more people. Apparently, things can be connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180251	So think about how it would have been for the company, if you had not had a five-fold increase in NO x then they could have grown even more and created even more Danish jobs. It may not be said directly, but it is a bit in the premise that it does not harm companies, that they have a high tax burden and therefore also higher costs than they have for a similar company located abroad. And it has an effect on Danish companies if we have a much higher tax level than you have elsewhere. That is why I do not quite buy the premise that it is going to work anyway. Because then you could have set it up even higher, if that's what you wanted. I think it's a good idea to put it down, also because it hits awkwardly, in the sense that it's a very small part of NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180333	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180334	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned that there was a prospect that some companies would close because of these NO x kr., i.e. a NO x kr. This corresponds to approx. One-and-a-half percent. of their profits, so they seem to be able to manage. I also think it is important to focus on what has been developed in Denmark. One has developed solutions that can draw NO x One has thus developed some solutions that one can export to the whole world, and we should also bear that in mind when we discuss what it is that we get out of being a pioneer country. Energy technology exports from Denmark totalled 75 billion. kr. I think that is a good thing. have had some demands in Denmark, and then some solutions have been developed. And it's true that that NO x x I think there's a need for us to find solutions that can be used in any country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180442	Again, there is indirect in it that if only we set the tax high enough, we can get some export of technology. But what about all the other companies that have poor competitiveness and then cannot compete? In addition to Aalborg Portland, which is probably the most well-known company, there are at least a lot of Funen companies and some horticultures that are affected by it, and a lot of companies are generally affected by NO x So I just think that the most important thing is that you do such taxes because it should have an effect on the climate, i.e. an effect on how much NO x comes from abroad and only 10%. comes from Denmark, and out of the 10%. If that is a small part of what you have actually put a tax on, it means that you are down to a very small share, you actually reduce NO x There has to be some kind of behavioural regulation that you can defend and when you get a very small effect out of introducing this five-fold NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180542	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180543	If you look at the Danish emissions over the last 25 years, you will see that different sectors in Denmark have been able to reduce their NO x. Then I would like to draw attention to another aspect. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is something that has been involved in the discussions in the conciliation circle around this NO x.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180617	I would like to start by saying that I am one hundred per cent in agreement that it is good that the emissions of NO x x tax is in relation to the debate we had on the advertising tax, namely that it might be that the industry itself had an interest in resolving it, so that the market itself solves the problem, rather than trying to regulate its behaviour with taxes. With regard to the last part of the petrol tax, I would like to say that I have not been a Finance Law rapporteur and have not been part of the negotiations, so unfortunately I cannot explain what the considerations have been about it, but I can confirm that it has been chosen not to withdraw it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180655	Thank you. We have no more on the list of authors, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180708	The previous government fivefolded NO x per year. Pounds emitted. With this proposal, NO x is reduced per year. Pounds emitted. The government would have preferred to see the tax abolished completely, and that is still the ambition when the funds are available. It is proposed to abolish the base allowance for companies which derive particularly large quantities of NO x. It is also proposed that the possibility be introduced for companies with high heat consumption to register the charges on waste heat under the same conditions as for the consumption of, for example, coal-based heat. The proposal confers a liquidity advantage on the undertakings concerned. NO x There is a need to give Danish companies the best conditions to grow and create jobs in Denmark. NO x x There is, for me, an independent point in the fact that industrial companies are particularly affected and encouraged to move abroad. This is precisely the kind of jobs Denmark has lost so many of during the crisis. If we want to continue to have industry in the country, we need to ensure framework conditions that are not completely distorted in relation to our neighbouring countries. The previous government's tax increase was headless and to the detriment of Danish companies, and therefore the government will now bring the level back to the original one. This is done as part of an overall policy which is that the private sector is driving the growth of Danish society, and we must support it from a political point of view. The proposal is part of the Finance Act 2016 concluded between the Government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. On behalf of the Left, I must inform you that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180902	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204180922	Around the lowering of NO x It is evidently part of the government's so-called green realism. In the 2011 Act, however, NO x x NO x x x x x The Danish experience with NO x Current Danish emissions remain significantly higher than the emissions in Sweden. In the Finance Act, it has been advised to lower NO x kr. in 2016, and planned to reduce the State's taxes by 700 million. kr. in 2017. At the same time, environmental measures are being cut sharply in the financial bill settlement. Research and development funds, EUDP, are reduced in the Finance Act from 385 million. kr. to it under half. The Finance Act slaughters the green transition in which Denmark, according to the Climate Council, is in the lead, not as the government speaks, but only in the driver's field, and with the slaughter of the sustainable conversion there is a risk that Denmark will fall in the middle of the field in the EU. The government will reduce the state NO x kr. At the same time as the Finance Act cuts support for large heat pumps, aid for the spread of geothermal energy is cancelled and research and development funds are more than halved, the spread of electric cars is bothered and supported by only 160 million. kr. In 2016, while it is likely that the most expensive cars will be subject to lower taxation, regardless of their pollution, with a loss of State registration fees of 350 million. kr. As a result. There is no doubt in the Finance Bill that there is a need to increase NO x It is also for this reason that yesterday the government managed to get the appointment as today's fossil at the Paris Climate Summit. Reduction of NO x kr. less in revenue to the Treasury. What, then, is the negative environmental impact? According to the bill on page 13, the environmental impact of tax reductions will lead to an increase in pollution by 10 million. kg NO x Only 13% of the pollution will hit Denmark, so the cost of damage will be estimated in Denmark at an environmental damage cost of 150 million. kr. a year. This means that there will be a damage cost for the 87 per cent. of NO x kr. At the same time, it is unknown how much NOx pollution from other countries affects Denmark. The Enhedslisten believes that we have an international task in helping to show how NO x The Government's green realism can generate less revenue from NO x DKK, while the damage costs annually amount to 1 billion. kr. to the neighbors and 150 million. kr. in Denmark. We think this is an irresponsible environmental policy. Denmark also has a leading position in environmental technology to reduce NO x When NO x When you introduced NO x I think it is deeply questionable that the government now does not propose that petrol and diesel taxes be increased so that the total fuel taxes could be unchanged. We should really increase the fees by four to five cents per annum. The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. The government would rather empty the treasury than pursue environmental policy. The socio-economic costs of the increased NO x I think it is a deeply irresponsible environmental policy that the government and its blue friends lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181347	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Merete Riisager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181358	Abolition of NO x All Liberal Alliance's draft Finance Act and our overall economic 2025 plan address the business and competition harmful tax. That is why, of course, we are satisfied that the government has kept its election promise and with this bill takes what hopefully is the first step towards the abolition of NO x It is no secret that we in the Liberal Alliance would like to look at all taxes more closely in terms of possible reductions. But we would have liked to see a total abolition of NO x We are already looking forward to the next stage, which could possibly be taken in the context of adjustments to the PSO tax, which is indeed imminent. When I visit the Funen horticulture in particular, it is quite clear that NO x The energy-intensive companies are under pressure from their existence as a direct result of the charges, and therefore we are pleased that these very ones are met with the possibility of being registered for taxes under the same conditions as apply to heat types. The cash-flow advantage which, for example, the horticultural sector obtains in this way will be a welcome and fair hand-out. All in all, then, it is a very sensible proposal that leaves a small space for further improvements that can be made on another occasion. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181536	There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181539	Does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur accept the polluter-pays principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181548	We do, of course, but when we make taxes, we must always consider the extent of the damage to the industry in relation to the environmental benefits that will be, and that is what we mean in relation to NO x.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181610	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181611	One might say that there are always some who have to pay, and socio-economically it is just some others who will pay. I didn't really think it was the policy of the Liberal Alliance that when somebody pollutes, somebody else has to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181624-2	It depends again on what effects you're looking at. Looking at the health effect of the violent raising of NO x Therefore it is also reasonable to say that the whole purpose of fivefold NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181657	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That's the rapporteur for the alternative, and that's Mr. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181709	Many good things have already been said which confirm us in the alternative that we cannot in any way support this. All I really want to say here from the platform is that it is a fundamentally different approach that we have to contribute to the world that we have in the dialogue here today. We have just been in a debate in the European Union where we have seen that the most important thing was to find out what we could only contribute. And on this point, I completely disagree when it is said that we cannot just take the lead and let all the other competitors benefit from environmental advantages because they are allowed to burden the environment in a way that is economically more beneficial to them for a short period of time than what we allow the Danish companies to do. I simply think that is wrong. The premiss is wrong. By adopting a bill like this, we are doing so that it will not be as interesting to develop new technologies. One of the areas we could be very keen on in Denmark and where we have shown ourselves to be really sharp is when we develop new technologies that promote the green transition. It is not because we have to lay hold on the business community, on the contrary. But I think it is wrong to go in and make a Danish legislation that probably, and now I am guessing, must be changed in order to adapt to the demands that we will have from the United Nations and the European Union in a few years' time. It is by no means the right thing to do. I believe that we have a responsibility in Denmark because we are in a privileged situation. We are precisely among those who, as a nation, can put on the lead and show that we have a surplus to be able to think beyond the wheel running around. We have a very well-developed welfare society that we have got because, among other things, we have. have taken the lead, and if we are waiting for those countries that are currently working hard to make their economies work together to put on that led-bearer, or if we expect China or the United States or other nations to put on the lead, then we will have to wait a long time. With our well-developed welfare society, we are much better placed to put on this driver's shirt, so it's a completely crooked direction to go in. If we do not believe that it is good for our business community and for our growth environments to invest in developing new technologies that enable us to comply with regulations that have been implemented in order precisely to take care of our climate, we are wrong. It is in every way good to go in and develop new technology in this area, and if it is a problem today, then I am sure that we will be one of the nations that will benefit from it very much in a few years' time when it becomes a requirement for everyone. So we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181938	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. I see no rapporteur from the Radical Left. So we move on again, and then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204181958	It's no use even putting on high heels! As I have said before, when the previous government, under a SF tax minister, who is today a Social Democrat, made a financial agreement for 2012, it was decided to fivefold NO x. Of course, this was done in the light of the environmental and, above all, health costs that exist and the socio-economic costs that also exist. It caused a lot of trouble, and I have had many debates and discussions in North Jutland, where I have been asked whether it was not unreasonable, and whether a large local company would not close on the basis of this. And then, of course, you become in doubt, because you are not interested in Danish companies closing down, but that they have to adjust and take the lead and also inspire others, so that we in Denmark can both create jobs and develop new technology and at the same time make money. Then it also turned out fortunately last year, exactly a year ago, when Aalborg Portland went out with the announcement that it had never gone better. By 2019 they would invest 6 billion. kr.; 600 million kr. should be used alone at the Aalborg plant to adapt and reduce the use of fossil fuels, reduce energy consumption; and you would hire a lot of new people. When I asked the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance earlier about the polluter-pays principle, it was because there are more of us in here who have discovered that the Liberal Alliance is not so concerned about climate and the environment, but then I thought that from a liberal perspective, it is not possible to accept that other people should pay for some costs they incur. And I didn't really get a clear answer to that. There, however, I believe that we generally have a principle that the polluter pays agriculture is, of course, exempt and also elsewhere and, as we have discussed earlier today, we are subsidising, for example. fossil fuels to an extreme degree, because the socio-economic costs that exist affect all of us, and we will all pay the bill, whether you like it or not. That was also the reason for NO x NO x We do, but we just need the most climate-friendly cement production. And there was a rapporteur for another party who said at the time that it was very provocative to me that Aalborg Portland was a typical sunset industry. This is extremely provocative, because cement must of course be used to set up the windmills we are all so happy about, but we must have a cement production in Denmark which, within what is permissible, is as climate-friendly as possible and where you pay the social costs that will be borne by all of us. It's only fair and fair. That is why I regret today that the Socialists have changed their minds, especially in view of the fact that the factory, which has been mostly mentioned in the whole debate, has been able to demonstrate a large turnover and a large profit and some historically high investments, despite the fact that NO x The change of attitude seems to me to be a pity also because at the same time we are sending the signal, 1) that a private company should not be able to pay the bill for the costs for which all possible other taxpayers have to pay, and 2) that the green transition is only a burden for all of us and not something on which we can also make money. I believe that Danish businesses from Grundfos and Aalborg Portland to Danfoss and many others have become strong and competitive because we have had an ambitious environmental and climate policy in this country, not least carried up by unfortunately the late Svend Auken and his visions. And this shows that we can make money and create jobs by developing green technology and by making demands. So this is another one in the series of proposals that goes against this. We keep hearing the government talk about not being in the front line, not carrying a heavier burden than so many others. But I can reassure the government that neither do we anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182458	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Per Husted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182501	It is always good to take out the latest accounts, and I have to repeat and ask the rapporteur whether she will not accept the assumption that the economic situation Denmark is in now is much better than it was 3-4 years ago, and that is, of course, the reason why it is going so well in the company in question. I also welcome the investments that are there. However, we are talking about a tax which affects a single company exceptionally hard. We have a trade union, we have employers who have gone out and have said that this is one of the things we can do to exactly support a large company in North Jutland, which is not the place where it is easiest to get new companies to. I do not quite understand why the rapporteur, as a North Jyde, cannot accept the premise that we have to do such things to support a company. We basically agree that environmental taxes are very good at getting companies and not least private individuals to think new, but here we are talking about a single company. It was my question, in other words, whether the rapporteur does not accept that it is not fair to use accounts in this way when much has happened since.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182617	Yes, and I would think that was a good point if I had just been based on the latest financial statements. Now it was my colleague, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who commented on the 812 million. kr. in surplus. After all, I am not commenting on a single year's profits or accounts. It is a long-term investment plan that Aalborg Portland came out with on December 1, 2014, where they said: Now we are so well consolidated and so sure what it is we can do that until 2019 we invest 6 billion. kr. wide, 600 million. kr. to expand the factory in Aalborg. We are going to hire more people, and some of the money and the expansion of the plant must also be used to reduce our energy consumption, because that is economic common sense for ourselves. That is why I do not think it is just a single year's profit. It is a long-term investment plan that they have put forward. There were concerns when we negotiated the Finance Act for 2012, but there I just think that the long-term investment plan has shown that the company and factory can thrive even if they have to pay for the health and environmental impact that their emissions mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182734	Sir. Per Husted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182735	Allow me to quote directly from Aalborg Portland's own website. I see it as a slightly more reliable source than a newspaper article. Director Michael Lundgaard Thomsen from Aalborg Portland says: "We now believe that there will be better conditions of competition for energy intensive production in Denmark, and we will therefore press the button for launching a number of investments in the coming years. He's linking those investments to this tax relief. It's gonna be a little muzzle-clanking. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182818	It is, of course, a discussion that we have had for some time here in the Folketing. But I do not think that a company would go out with a long-term investment plan over a year ago because one had the expectation that at some point government might change and perhaps the Social Democrats would vote for perhaps, perhaps. This is not the way to put forward long-term investment plans for 6 billion. kr. Let's go. But I can just hear and accept that we disagree. I just cannot see what has been different when the Socialists supported this in the context of the 2012 Finance Act. Because then we were told that everything would shut down and shut down, and today we see that things are going well. So I cannot actually understand what has changed, at least in the negative direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182903	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line with the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204182913	Anything that improves the competitiveness of companies; anything that makes it possible to invest in growth and jobs in Denmark; anything that combines the green transition with investing in jobs, the Conservative People's Party can support. That is why we were also happy when we entered into a financial agreement with the government, which means that we get NO x per. kilos emitted NO x We think it's appropriate. We would have liked to have had it down to DKK 0, but for such different financial policy reasons we landed on the DKK 5. 5 kroner. is equivalent to the tax that was when we last had a VK government, and that means everything else equal that companies, consumers, households save 700 million. kr. in 2017. Half of them can be directly related to companies that improve their competitiveness. Not only the very mentioned company Aalborg Portland, which many North Jutland politicians have talked about today, but also many other Danish companies will benefit from a reduction in the tax to DKK 5. It may be the famous horticultures, but it may also be Holmegaard Glassworks in Næstved, and it may be a lot of other companies that will thus ensure their competitiveness. By reducing costs, you can then invest not only in employees, but also in innovation and new technology, which means that you will pollute less and eventually deduce less NO x. But it is no use considering Denmark as such an isolated island. I think we need to pursue a very restrictive policy in this area, so we also need to tighten up our measures in relation to companies so that they invest in energy measures, which means getting rid of NOx. However, we need to invest in some technology that makes us first in class in the area of energy emissions and at the same time makes companies competitive. Because if we see ourselves as such a closed island, where you can just derive a lot of NO x Poland and can just produce down there, then Danish companies just move the production to e.g.. Poland. There aren't the same restrictions, and since NO x is why you have to land at a reasonable level, and we think we've landed at this. Hopefully, in the next round we can do it down to DKK 0, while at the same time we have an offensive environmental and climate policy that still makes tough demands on companies in Denmark. So the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183206	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183212	I simply think it is impressive how the Conservatives' rapporteur can constantly support anti-climate, anti-environmental measures, and so to say: but we are very keen to support the green transition. I do not know whether there are two wings in the Conservatives that need to be taken into account in the same way. However, I would like to put a question to Mrs Merete Riisager. Mr. Brian Mikkelsen as a good citizen, that everyone should answer theirs? Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, that you have to pay the costs you incur on the basis of the polluter pays principle? Or is it something that has to be paid by taxpayers? Because at some point, the bill comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183302	The starting point for Danish energy and environmental policy in a lifetime has been that first you have a principle that the polluter pays, but there is a lot of expenditure that society pays. Let us take another profession, which has not been so controversial but by a single rapporteur, as I think I have mentioned today. It is the gardeners on Funen, who were also very, very much discussed in my time by very persistent Funen people. It is clear that we cannot simply impose all the costs on horticulture in the field of the environment and climate in Funen, because then we do not have any horticulture on Funen. Then we do not have any horticulture, then we do not have any jobs on Funen, so we do not have any exports from the horticultural industry. So this is a common cost that society is helping to bear. So it cannot be simplified by saying that the polluter pays. No, it can be said that society helps to encourage less pollution by imposing strict environmental and climate requirements, which then means that we can approach it, that we emit, for example. less NO x Last time we had 5 kr. We had a megaambitious climate and environmental policy in the time of the VK administration, and all of it succeeded, even though the tax was only DKK 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183415	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183416	In fact, it was I who mentioned the Funen horticulture, so in this way I agree that it is possible to face the dilemma of relaxing environmental and climate requirements if the ambition is to keep a particular profession. There is a clear challenge with the Funen horticultures, and SF has never neglected that. I just think that in view of the fact that, for example, Aalborg Portland now I'm using that example again, they're the focal point of this, and it's also a company that we're very happy to see in North Jutland have been able to show that they can invest, expand, hire more despite what has happened, it's not fair that they pay the cost, because it costs something to derive NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183504	I don't think it was fair that Aalborg Portland, for example, should pay a large two-digit million in NO x I don't know what the alternative is, and I would very much hate to discuss individual companies from here, but the alternative to not having such a large NO x So it's not a zero-sum game in that way, except that if you talk about competitiveness and if you talk about cement production and other things, it's in competition with other countries that don't have as strict and restrictive requirements as we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183545	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183547	I think it is only fair to involve specific companies when the specific companies have interfered in the debate, and Aalborg Portland has. It was the Socialist rapporteur who brought the figure forward, namely that they should have a NO x kr. at this time. I don't know the number. Now the rapporteur for the Conservatives says that it was a large two-digit sum of millions. 12 million kr. I don't think it's a big two-digit million. If you then see the amount, the 12 million. kr., in relation to Aalborg Portland's surplus of 812 million. kr. In 2014, what is the impact of what the financial settlement here does? That's that NO x kr. will be reduced to 2.4 million. kr. This means that the company has saved almost 10 million. kr., and that's where we're down in that it's just about 1%. of their profits, which they save. Well, I hope that's not what's decisive for their production. I do not think it is right for the rapporteur to start talking about it by saying that we risk companies moving out of the country, because if there are particular industries that are hard hit, I think we should look specifically at it, but not just from such general considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183657	I think it is a bad thing to talk about specific companies in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I can see that we are spending 700 million. kr. on to lighten NO x kr. The 700 million. kr. facilitates the costs for households, which will then be able to gain greater consumption in some other places and gain some more freedom. Half of it relates directly to companies that improve their competitiveness, and they can then use this to invest in innovation, new technology and jobs in Denmark. That is what I, as a Conservative, have as my aim, namely to ensure better conditions for business. And they get that when we put NO x per. derived kg NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183748	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183750	I just do not think it is particularly targeted because it is such a general reduction. I would much rather go into some processes where you look at whether there are certain companies that have particular challenges with their energy consumption or special taxes that hit them hard so that you focus on going in and looking at: What about the horticulture industry in Denmark? Are there any particular problems? I've got one of them. heard that it causes them problems in some places, that district heating plants change fuel so that it can actually be the case that a horticultural company can have higher costs if the local heating plant shifts from coal to wood pellets. I'd love to go in and look at that kind of thing, but this just making such general reductions I don't think is focused enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183831-2	Well, the Conservative People's Party would like to talk about more specific reliefs, also with Enhedslisten, if Enhedslisten is ready for it. We think this is a good way to start making general reductions, the more, the better. But if there are areas where Enhedslisten seems that companies pay too much in taxes or taxes, then we would very much like to talk to Enhedslisten about it. And then we can quickly obtain a majority, I think, if Enhedslisten is on it to ease some taxes and charges for some particular types of business.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183859	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we are done with the rapporteur's line and we are giving the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204183911	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for agreeing to the bill, partly to the parties that are behind the financial law agreement, where we have agreed to lower NO x It is a tax that hampers our competitiveness and costs jobs. The parties to the agreement agree that it must be easier and cheaper to operate in Denmark, and we do so, among other things. by reducing taxes and charges for business. It's also in that light that you have to see this proposal and that you lower NO x per. kg from 1 July 2016, benefits the competitiveness of Danish companies. But I would also like to say that it remains the aim of the government and the Left to completely abolish NO x I, as Minister of Taxation, do not want to introduce new taxes and taxes, I want to reduce them and would like to abolish them, especially the taxes and charges that cost jobs. I am, of course, sorry, as I do with my other proposals, that there has not been a four-week consultation of the draft law, but this is due, as I said, to the fact that it has been put forward as part of the Finance Act and that we would like it to be adopted before Christmas, as has been customary in the case of financial legislation. In relation to the debate we have had, it is not surprising. It looks like the debate we had when you introduced NO x x x So it runs a little in circles, and I really don't hear much else new. But there are two things I should like to comment on here today. One is the fact that this is a tax that should only be about one company. I think there is a single company which has been mentioned today and which is one of the major contributors, and it is located in North Jutland, but, overall, there are very, very many companies that pay NO x x I also think that is why a few years ago Dansk Metal really came to terms with this, and that is perhaps what persuaded the Socialists to see the sense in this, I should not be able to say that. I am just glad that they are now seeing the light and will help reduce and hopefully also abolish NO x But that is then because it is important for our competitiveness. Having said that, NO x I would just like to read out the part that Enhedslisten's rapporteur did not get, because I think we should read it all. It is true that, in isolation, the NOx tax will lead to an increase in emissions of NO x x. It says something about the fact that we should not go Danish alone. We must take care of the environment, we must reduce the emissions of harmful substances, but we must not go Danish alone when it comes to cross-border pollution; then we must do so in cooperation with other EU countries, and that is also the government's line in this matter. But what is further stated here a little further on page 13 is that in isolation it will lead to increased emissions of NO x x In addition, technological developments and demands from the EU can dampen NO x Business still have to comply with environmental requirements, including BAT requirements. This can contribute to further reduction of NO x If you read the consultation answers, you will see that a large number of the companies benefiting from the fact that they now have to pay a much lower NO x x as a result of the BAT rules that apply within the EU. So this clear context, given that this is going to lead to a substantially larger discharge of NO x It depends entirely on what else we do, and there are other ways of achieving it in relation to NO x It should be my two comments, and then I should like to take questions both now and in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184355	There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184359	If you look at the current NO x So I think it's a little too bad if you want to change these NO x x So with the lowerings you do here on NO x I'd like to hear the minister if it wouldn't be reasonable to do the parallelity of the process that is now being set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184453	That is, of course, a perfectly correct explanation of the practice that has been used in the past. We have not chosen it, among other things. For the sake of the government's tax freeze, we have a desire that the indexations that have been decided be followed by excise duties and other things. Otherwise, however, we do not want to raise taxes and taxes, nor do we want to raise the tax on petrol and diesel. So among other things... for those reasons, there is not the parallelity of the proposal here that Enhedslisten is asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184526	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184527	Thank you for your answer. Well, I think that's very unfortunate, because otherwise it could be that the negative environmental effects of making these changes could be a little less, and I think that would be a good thing. I would like to hear from the Minister whether these changes in terms of the harmful emissions from diesel cars, which may seem to be the reality for more types of vehicles, more manufactures, give rise to something that needs to be re-evaluated, i.e. that the NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184603	That is how it is, as I understand it, in relation to the emission projections in Denmark made by Aarhus University, what is called DCE, National Centre for the Environment and Energy, that they make their projections for the Ministry of the Environment and Food. And that is something the government is following, because soon we will be running into an EU obligation legally to reduce NO x, but I think we can achieve it by other means than by making a competitive tax like NO x and there the government will closely follow developments, and then we will make sensible choices that ensure that we can live up to our environmental commitments without it, I hope, costing Danish competitiveness and Danish jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184653	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184709	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Socialist Group, and that is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204184729	After all, the proposal here is another part of the Finance Act and yet another part of the Finance Act, which has harmful consequences for some of the things we care about. It is a proposal that will affect the financing of a number of non-profit-making purposes. The government would initially remove the consolidation allowance where it is possible to set aside money for the consolidation of corporate funds and distribute for non-profit purposes with an additional 25% deduction. and a transfer rule where there is a tax-free transfer from a subsidiary to an owning fund for distribution. I understand that the government has already considered some of this, and very soon after the financial law agreement has been drawn up, an amendment will be tabled to the draft law which we have not even been able to deal with until now, thus removing the last of these two rules. Nevertheless, the effect will be the same, only on a slightly smaller scale. This will therefore affect the financing of a number of non-profit-making purposes, both from the funds and from the creation of new funds. After all, it is privately funded funds that each year distribute funds for a range of purposes in the field of voluntary social work, including sports, cultural life, research, integration work, construction, climate and environmental projects. The proposal is strongly criticised by both the Voluntary Council on the receiving side and by sports organisations, cultural institutions, research organisations and so on, which receive money, and, of course, by the funds themselves, who actually think that they are doing a good job with these distributions of funds. And it is clear that it will mean smaller distributions for these good purposes, which originally amounted to over 1 billion. kr. Every year, before the government changed this bill. So now it's maybe 1⁄2 billion. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. A few examples can be given, for example. Disability organisations, Mother's Help, an integration project called "Mind your own business', where boys who need an extra boost to do well, i.e. boys with a different ethnic background, get different kinds of help and training, training to start their own business, help to do so and thus become a better part of society than they might have been before. These are examples that can be quickly identified. This also applies to a number of cultural institutions in the field of research, where it is said that some 1.4 billion. kr. Every year, it's financed by these private funds. It is true that this is a tax concession and a form of business support through the tax system, and we must always consider whether this is justified. I would say that the proposal could make some sense if, with the other hand, the government increased funding for the same areas that are being affected, in other words, the money that has come in increased funding for research, culture, social work, climate and environmental measures, etc. equivalent. But that is not the case. On the contrary, the same areas are being cut in the budget law on research, on education, in several cases also on social policy, on the environment and climate, etc. Just two days ago, the tax minister actually said that, among other things. We had a problem with the proposal and called him in consultation about it, that such an excellent balance had been struck and that this was a very good proposal. One must understand that in the meantime one has become wiser and then removes one part of it. I think that, for the same reason that we have become wiser and want to remove one part, we should also remove the other and go back to the negotiating chamber with our other parties to the agreement and find out something else. I think that yesterday, with the amendment of the draft law, this was announced so that, as under the cover of the referendum, we could go out with the garbage unnoticed and revise the proposal. But now we have the first reading, and then we can discuss it here. We are therefore also opposed to what remains after the government's amendments come, and I welcome the view of the Radical Left, Martin Lidegaard, who could not be here now, and say that it is also the Radical Left's view on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204185148	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204185156	Thank you. This proposal is also one of those that is part of the financial law agreement, which the Danish People's Party is part of. It's about you, among other things. will abolish the consolidation allowance for funds and abolish what is called the transfer rule for funds, also called the transparency rule. The adjustment of the two deductions must amount to 200 million. kr., as among others. to improve the conditions of generational change in business enterprises. This means, in concrete terms, that the property tax will be reduced from 15%. 5%. over a number of years, so it hits 5%. in 2020. And this must apply to transfers to close family members and to commercial funds. I would say that I really think it is quite sympathetic that there are good opportunities for generational change, because this avoids large liquidity flows, which can be done by means of a high tax. It is therefore money which is withdrawn from the company and which cannot then be used to create jobs. So this is all about trying to keep the money in the companies or in the funds and thus also retain Danish jobs. I think it is positive for Denmark that companies are kept as family owners or as foundations, because the alternative could not be that it is likely that it will be such that it will be, for example. a capital fund that buys it and that may not have the same sense of loyalty to Denmark, and thus there may be a risk that they will move the jobs more out of the country or move the head office or parts of it out of the country. I believe that if you have a commercial fund, there is therefore a greater chance that you will stay in that country. Then, of course, there is also the positive effect that funds make really big contributions for non-profit purposes. With regard to funding, which was, of course, an adjustment to the consolidation allowance and the abolition of the transfer rule for funds, I note that there have been some criticisms in the consultation answers and also in the media, one of which is that the transfer rule provides too much revenue. But I could see yesterday in a press release from the Ministry of Taxation that you agree with and that it has therefore been announced that there will be an amendment, and I think that makes sense. The aim has not been to get more money than the 200 million. kr., which is actually provided for in the bill. But I would also like to make it clear that when the press release states that this must be looked at, that is to say to find the funding, it is important for the Danish People's Party that it is still the 200 million. kr., one hits and that they must be found within the fund area and not anywhere else. Because if we are to open up the financial law treaty and find funding elsewhere, we have other places where we might think it was more important. That's where I'm thinking. the housing allowance, for which there has been a great deal of criticism today. Then we thought it was more justified that that was where you looked. So if you're going to look at this because, of course, you don't have to pull any more out of the pockets of the funds, I think you should definitely find the money somewhere else in the field of the fund. I think that is important for us to make that clear. So, of course, we are positive about the proposal because it is part of a financial law agreement. But, of course, before you can finally say yes to it, you have to have it completely in place, in relation to what is being financed instead. We naturally welcome this task in the discussions with the Minister and the other conciliation parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204185521	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204185529	Thank you. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, wants to reduce the housing and gift tax by transferring businesses to close family members. 5%. in 2020. It is because we believe that it is of great importance that we keep the companies in Denmark. That is some of the things we have gone to the polls on, and we would like to do so. We have put in place funding where we have already said at this stage that part of this will change. And I just want to say that the Left supports the bill with the comments that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204185605	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that's Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204185620	Thank you. It is actually quite nice to be able to wear the jahat here at the end after such a marathon day here in the Folketing. We in the Enhedslisten are actually quite positive about this proposal. In fact, we were a little puzzled when we discovered that it was included in the Finance Act, because limiting some of the very large tax advantages for the large funds is something that Enhedslisten has been proposing for a number of years and has also tried to negotiate with the outgoing government. So we had to pinch our arm. But that was a brief pleasure, because it happened yesterday, too, that the government withdrew. A number of the wealthiest and wealthiest commercial funds in the country joined the field with a press release A.P. Møllers Familiefond, tobacco group Obel, Carlsberg, Nordea. So, some of Denmark's largest companies moved on, and that is something that can cause governments of any color to hurry in the opposite direction. It is actually a little interesting, I think, that when DONG is to be sold or the benefit reform throws thousands of people out, we can collect hundreds of thousands of signatures to stop it without a government moving, but when 30 of the largest companies make a small petition, you can see governments of any color moving. It may say a little about what kind of power we are living under here in our otherwise democratic country. A little wormwood came in the cup, but nevertheless the other half of the proposal remains, namely the consolidation allowance. We think that is a good thing. The consolidation allowance was introduced as the interest rate was towering and the funds thus had a problem. If they paid out funds for charity, they would suffer from their wealth, and this could mean that they could not distribute them in the long term. That's why this consolidation allowance was introduced. Now we have a negative interest rate in Denmark and there is therefore no argument for maintaining this consolidation allowance. The thing is, you can already draw 100 per cent. from, and the consolidation allowance then means that one can subtract 125 per cent. from. I do not think that there are any other arrangements in Denmark where this is the case. And that really means that when, for example, we get there. Says there was A.P. Møller Mærsk, who paid for the Opera or other similar things, is of course a truth with modifications, for it is first and foremost deducted from 100 per cent, which means that we already as taxpayers pay a good deal, and then when there is 25 per cent. On top of that, it is actually quite a good part of what we are told is paid by these funds, which are actually paid by taxpayers. There we just have the basic view in the Enhedslisten that it will actually be smarter to keep the money and choose what it is to be used for instead of leaving it to some large foundations, which are not democratic, where it is some small families that belong to Denmark's elite who decide how the money is to be spent. So we support the basic idea. It is basically the case that taxpayers' money, which is now being given and distributed as tax advantages, is being exchanged for collective use. What is then the problem here is that the money that comes up with this is then spent on some new tax cuts for the very same commercial funds and other of Denmark's absolute upper class. This puts us in a rather difficult situation, because on the one hand we are in favour of this tax, but on the other hand we certainly do not agree with the way the money is subsequently spent. That is why we are starting from the assumption that we will probably abstain from voting on this proposal. However, we are grateful for the attention that perhaps there is a tax here and we look forward to a future majority perhaps using the proceeds more sensibly than the government is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190053	There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance and that is Mrs Merete Riisager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190101	I cannot help commenting on the fact that the Enhedslisten is very fond of the fact that money is being given to culture, research and education and something like that. For God's sake, they can't come from private business. It's gonna take a walk through the public sector. Otherwise, it's kind of not very good. Well, in relation to L 71, it is the case that for the Liberal Alliance it has been important to conclude a financial law agreement in which we have achieved significant results. What we've got, among other things, has. • a reduction in registration fees, a freeze on the ground, better opportunities for families to have their children at free and private schools, and better opportunities for entrepreneurs. This proposal for amended rules for funds helps to finance those results, but it is no secret that we would have greatly preferred other sources of funding. We are generally concerned with getting a public sector where citizens can decide for themselves, and the fine thing about giving citizens more influence is that they get what they want instead of just asking for what is there. In general, it provides a more efficient use of the tax dollars we use in the public sector. So there are many opportunities to do better there. When it comes to changing the tax rules for funds, we are not enthusiastic, because of course it cannot be the finest trade mark of a bourgeois-liberal government to take money from civil society and put it in the treasury. That is why, in the context of the discussion on the proposal, we were already annoyed by the fact that the so-called transparency rule, which benefits foundations for non-profit-making purposes such as culture and research, was proposed to change. There has been some criticism of the proposal, and there has also been criticism of it here about the fact that a higher revenue than was expected from the Ministry and what we have discussed in the financial legislation negotiations. That is why, in general, we are delighted to note that it has been decided not to change the transparency rule, so that the transparency rule exists. That is why the Minister certainly deserves praise in this area. Of course, we stand by the financial commitment contained in the Finance Act and will therefore follow whether the funding fits with what is provided for in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190327	There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the alternative rapporteur, and that's Mr. Knox. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190334	In the alternative, we are very aware that this legislation, at least before the news came on the table yesterday, could have some terrible consequences for many of the projects that are going on around the world and that have so much difficulty in getting funding. It is actually our primary focus in this matter that we simply have to ensure that in a society where we remove a great many opportunities and a great many initiatives for some of the vulnerable with the new government coming, we do not have to remove an element where we see that there are some companies that actually contribute very positively well enough through some funds. So we wait to make our announcement of what we think of it until we have seen what it means, in that it is a full and full legislative proposal that we have to take a position on and that it is not just one half here. So I'll be brief today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190431	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190444	From the SF we can see both the positive and the negative consequences of this bill. But there has been so much uncertainty and discussion of amounts and of what it will result in after reflows etc. etc. Now we hear that the minister may also say something about the change in the bill. I just think that makes it even harder. In fact, I do not think it is quite easy to take a position on the legislative proposal, and I do not think it will be easier after the recent discussion of this. That is why the SF cannot give a definitive answer today as to whether or not we support it. It is clear that we do not have all the time in the world, but we need some answers before we can finally state whether we support it or not. We have some of the same concerns as Enhedslisten, but our position has not been finally clarified yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190554	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Conservative rapporteur. It's sir. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190600	The proposal here has not grown in our gardens. It has certainly not grown in our garden. We stand by it in the sense that we are part of the Finance Act and have to fetch 200 million. kr. In this area. But I do not want to hide the fact that we were surprised to be presented with such a proposal by the government. We see the funds as being of benefit to Danish society, as being of benefit to research, to health, to culture, to the social area. That is why we must be careful not to make it so unattractive to be a hand-out fund today that we speculate fiscally not to take advantage of the opportunities there are and the huge benefits there are. Fortunately, it is a broad majority in the Folketing that agrees that we should have some more commercial funds. We ourselves helped to reach an agreement with the previous government to make it more attractive for us to create more commercial funds. The purpose is set aside for 360 million. kr. to a year. It is, moreover, a very good initiative by the previous government, which has then been followed up with money from the current government. It's fine. So far, so good. Then you have to be careful when you want to do something good for the funds, that you do not pick them so much that you make it too little attractive to set up a new fund and that you make it too little attractive to distribute money. Fortunately, the government, in dialogue with the funds itself, has come to reinstate the transparency rule, and it benefits and benefits a great many well-functioning funds, which distribute a great deal of money for health research, for social, cultural and so on. Then there is still the consolidation allowance remaining, which is being reduced from 125 per cent. 100 per cent. What we have agreed, which has also been mentioned here from the platform, is that there must be just over 200 million. kr. in the area. We stand by that. If it is the case that the consolidation allowance provides more than 200 million. kr., then it is our view that there is an understanding that the consolidation allowance will be set up, for a penny should not be taken more than what has been agreed in that area. This means that you can land at a percentage higher than 105, 106, 110, or whatever it is you agree on but we stand 100% by finding the money to be found in that area, even though it is not our flower that has grown here. That is how it is in a financial law agreement, and that is why we are voting in favour of this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190840	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190843	In fact, I was also surprised that the Conservatives were in favour of this proposal, and I can also listen to Mr Conservatives. Brian Mikkelsen, that he is well aware that it will actually have some rather serious consequences for those who receive the funds, the many good purposes there are, and indeed for the funds that use these opportunities. Now we have been through such a handful of proposals today, when the parties in shifts have complained about having to go to the platform and say that they support the proposal, and now it has become Mr. Brian Mikkelsen's trip and the guy who gets the question here. Somehow I am a little surprised that the parties that have agreed something with the government have not caught that the Left is only itself in the government and therefore have so few mandates behind it that if you said no, there would be no majority for that, so they would not have the mandates. And one's negotiating position may have been somewhat more favourable than the parties themselves actually wanted to be, and one is allowed to be carried around by the government, even though it has so few mandates. Why did the Conservatives not just say no if they were surprised that the proposal came and opposed it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204190957	I think we have been given a very good financial law, which I am very, very happy about not only in relation to our project to lighten property taxes for the property owners, but we have now obtained a majority in order to lighten the housing and gift tax so that it comes down to 5%. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive. And we have had a lot of other unfair taxes and taxes removed, and that is a very business-friendly financial law. So it's a question of giving and taking something. And now I am not going to play Ritt Bjerregaard like that, in relation to what the Left thinks, but I am sure that it is not in the heart of the Left that you should go out and pick the funds as you do. So it is not such a Left proposal in this way, but it will then fall into their lot to make that proposal to make things stick together. But they have to explain and defend that. We stand by the fact that, of course, we support the agreement that has been reached and think it is a very, very good financial agreement that has been made between the four parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204191050	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204191051	I understand that the Conservatives are somewhat happier than the Danish People's Party, which has been driven around and has had to leave their politics from the election campaign completely, whereas the Conservatives have got some nice fingerprints. That must be acknowledged. But yet this surprise came to me when one complained as much as Mr. Brian Mikkelsen did that the government had to make the proposal here. But is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen realizes that this 200 million is coming. kr. in, but that the amount that you are going to lose in distribution, maybe it's five times? What's sir? Brian Mikkelsen's comment on the loss that it will be for the associations and good purposes that receive the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204191136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204191137	Well, it's also because it's gone so fast, but after the transparency rule has come back, it doesn't have the same consequences as it had before. So these are not the amounts we are talking about here at all. Now that we are talking about the consolidation allowance, that would be the case in the best of all worlds, and I can only repeat that then there was not that proposal, and I actually believe that all the Finance Law parties agree on that. Hopefully they are. But now it is the world in which we live and some funding needs to be provided. It has everything else equal. I must say that I do not have the huge consequences that the transparency rule had. Of course, I have also talked to most of the funds, and it is not the case that they are clapping in their little hands, but they are living with what has been achieved here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204191214	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204191223	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for receiving the proposal. It says in my speech paper that I should like to thank you for the lively debate we have had today, but I really do not think we have had a lively debate. I think we have had a good and calm debate, and I would like to sign off on the fact that the parties behind the financial law agreement recognise what has been agreed, namely that 200 million should be found. kr. That's one of the things this proposal is supposed to be funding. I'd like to sign for that. I would also like to say that, as a tax minister, it is one of my main priorities that we develop and change our rules in dialogue, not only in the context of discussions here in the Folketing, but also through dialogue with those who are really involved and who are affected by the rules. And I would like to say now that I do not remember what rapporteur it was that the change that we issued yesterday's press release, in which the government is suggesting that one of the initiatives that lie here, namely the abolition of the transparency rule, should not happen, is not going to happen, we are going to table an amendment on it. This has not happened under the cover of an EU vote. This has happened as a result of the fact that we had to send a commentary to the Folketing. That was to happen yesterday, and then, as Minister for Taxation, I decided that we would respond to some of the criticisms that have been made in the hearings. Dialogue with the funds on the draft law and the many consultation responses has led us to decide in the government to table an amendment to amend the draft law on a couple of essential points, in relation to what has been tabled, and I shall come back to that. As I said, the bill translates into part of the 2016 Finance Act and is overall aimed at targeting business support and ensuring part of the funding for this significant improvement in the conditions for generational change in business enterprises. It proposed the abolition of two favourable special rules which currently apply to foundations and certain associations. In fact, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is proposed to abolish the consolidation allowance for the funds and the transfer rule applicable to companies owned by funds or certain associations. It is important for me to stress that the draft law does not fundamentally alter the taxation of funds or its functioning and functioning. The funds will thus continue to be able to carry out their important social functions and, in addition, the crown-for-kron will be deducted from the amount of the money distributed for non-profit purposes. There will also be a full right to deduct when funds reserve their funds for later distribution for non-profit purposes. Summing up, therefore, the tax rules for funds will continue to be quite relaxed. During the negotiations on the Finance Act, it was estimated that the additional proceeds from the abolition of the transfer rule would be transparency, whether or not they would be approx. 120 million kr. annual after retreat and behavior. And in the government, as I mentioned in my introduction, following the submission of the bill, we have received a number of consultation responses. After all, the bill was tabled at the time it was and in an expedited process, because it happened as a result of a financial agreement. One might think that it is a pity that we have to do so, but it is the premise of this government and of previous governments that when something has been agreed in the context of the financial law negotiations, there is not always time for the consultation period that should be. And it has been particularly challenging this year as a result of the two weeks when the Danish Parliament had rightly said that there should be no meeting to focus on the referendum. However, as a result of this process, which has thus been quite under pressure, we have received a number of consultation responses and have also been aware that the use of the transfer rule has increased considerably in recent years and that the proceeds from the abolition of the rule would therefore be significantly higher than that provided for in the conclusion of the financial agreement. Against this background, as several speakers have said, we have decided to table an amendment to delete the proposed abolition of the transfer rule from the draft law. At the same time, we will also be tabling an amendment and this is perhaps new to some of us regarding the proposal for an effective date for the abolition of the consolidation rule. There, too, we in the government have listened to the criticisms made in several of the hearings received. I believe that this is clear from the answers to the hearings. is from the Carlsberg Foundation that the proposed date of impact may lead to arbitrary discrimination against funds, depending on when and how they have organised their practice for annual distributions, and that, of course, has not been the intention. So, to put it more plainly, if there were a fund that distributed all its money in December, it would be very badly hit by this proposal in 2015, whereas a fund that distributed until the proposal was put forward would not be affected. But that is not the intention, of course, and that is why we are proposing to amend that part with an amendment on a more relaxed phase-in. Then I would just like to deal with a few points which have been raised in the debate, among others. in connection with Enhedslisten's remark that the proceeds here should go to the absolute upper class. I have to say that the proceeds here go to a significant reduction in the estate and inheritance tax for family-owned businesses and foundations and to ensure that new business funds can be created. There are a lot of thousands of companies to make a generational change in the coming years. There are, of course, some of them who have a lot of money and are very well known to the public, but there are also a lot of small family-owned businesses, agriculture, for example, where you have to make a generational change, and where you will benefit and benefit from these new lax housing and inheritance tax rules, where we lower the estate and inheritance tax until 2020 to 5 percentage points. So the purpose is not to grant a tax relief to the absolute rich. It is to ensure that family-owned companies can stay in Danish hands and that jobs can stay in Denmark and to ensure that new business funds can become reality by paying a much smaller estate and inheritance tax. With those words, I should like to thank not for a lively debate, but for a good debate, and to say to the Danish People's Party that, as I hear the parties behind the agreement here, it is recognised that there are 200 million. kr. That is why I would also like to have some discussions with the parties behind the financial law agreement on how to find what might be missing in order to achieve that amount. At the same time, we will also consolidate the calculations underlying the consolidation rule. After all, there are certain funds that say that you get much more into it. And there I have to say that what is at the root of the Department of Taxation's calculations is the accounting figures we have. And if, for example, we... will be informed about the financial figures for 2014, or what you expect in 2015, after all, we have a better professional and factual basis for assessing what revenue will really come in. I cannot rule out the possibility that this could lead to an upward adjustment of the proceeds of the consolidation rule. However, if there is a lack of funding, the parties have an obligation to find that money together, and I will, during the examination of this proposal, engage in dialogue with the parties responsible for the financial law agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192024	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192028	There has been a lot of debate on the calculations, the proceeds and so on, and I fully agree with my colleagues from the Enhedslisten on what the money is for. But let us not discuss this, because I think that the debate on whether or not to grant a tax relief to some company heirs is a well-known debate. But I have some doubts about the fact that the Minister is now taking out the transfer rule. What was it in the hearings that convinced the Minister that it was a bad idea to keep it in the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192112	I can say this quite honestly, and it was, of course, that the transfer rule is being applied to a much greater extent and that the proceeds would be a lot times greater, that is to say considerably greater than what was expected. And that means that it was against what has been agreed in the Finance Act, namely that there should be 200 million. kr. In this area. The consolidation allowance is a percentage that we reduce from 125 per cent. 100 percent, and that's where you can turn it. The transparency rule is either or, so either you have it, or you do not have it, and there we just have to say that the idea of what has been agreed in the Finance Act is not that it should provide such a substantial increase in revenue, and that came out in the consultation answers. I think so, among other things. PWC, on behalf of 29 funds, had calculated the proceeds that would come in. When we look at it in the Treasury, we have to say that we recognise the documentation that lies there and when the transparency rule would provide much greater revenue, it would also lead to a much smaller distribution for charitable purposes. And that is not the intention of the proposal. This must be done to a greater extent than the 200 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192216	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is resigning. Then we'll go to the next one, and that's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192223	How much does the Minister of Taxation estimate that the proposal will then lead to fewer distributions for the many purposes of research, culture, health, the environment, climate, etc. that are involved? How much money do you expect it to be? That is one question. The second question I would like to ask, because that is what I can do if the Minister does not wish to confirm that the government, while at the same time, with this proposal, is blocking private funding for these purposes, is also spending less money on the budget law on research, culture, education and also on some aspects of social policy than was previously the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192322-2	In other words, I can confirm the content of the Finance Act, and that is that some money has been found on, for example. the research area. That is quite right; you can read it in the Finance Act. Of course, I must also acknowledge that when you make a tax, or rather a deduction, you remove this is not a tax; it is a deduction that you remove, a favourable tax rule that you remove and get 200 million. kr. Into, then, to some extent, it leads to a small distribution. Well, that's a consequence of it. I think that last year 8.5 billion was distributed. kr., and that's 200 million. kr., which must come in as a result of the removal of some of these favorable tax rules. I don't think it's gonna ruin any funds. They are, of course, tired of it and find it hard, and I fully understand that when someone has to pay more in taxes. I cannot give any figures as to how much less distribution this will bring. Depends on a whole range of things. Some funds are also fundamentally obliged to provide certain amounts. But, of course, it is going to result in a smaller distribution, that one is suddenly less favorable in relation to tax concessions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192436	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192438	First of all, a receipt of honesty, because it is said that with the one hand of the Finance Act and the public funding of a number of these objectives, as mentioned also in the field of research, we are in fact giving a smaller amount of funding, that is to say, those areas and some of the things which, as a society and as companies, must move us forward, while at the same time, with the other hand, we are also curbing private funding and reducing it. It's good to get it out. We can discuss it fairly. We disagree. When I ask, it is of course because the original proposal was estimated to mean that there were 1 billion. kr. less for distributions. If the Minister will not reply here, I would just ask that we get an answer to it during the committee procedure so that we can have a real overview of how much we are really going to hit out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192524	I believe that what has been promoted in the public debate is the two rules taken together. What has emerged is that in the transparency rule, the proportion has increased tenfold in eight years, from approx. 850 million kr. In 2007, which is the basis for the calculations, approx. 7 billion kr. in 2014. That is what led to the great criticism in public, also that there would be a billion less for distribution. I think that it will turn out to be a somewhat different picture when it is only the consolidation rule that is at stake. But we should like to try to get a little closer in committee. At any rate, I have noted that a number of funds have signed up for what is now not because they think it is nice, but they accept it and are satisfied that the transparency rule, which was, as it were, the major problem, is now being allowed to stay and not be removed, as was previously proposed. But there may be a lack of funding, and we parties will have to find it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192624	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. Tax Minister I wish you a good weekend). As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192642	For this election the following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 90 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party; another group of 89 members: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Siumut (SIU), Tjóðveldi (T) and Javnaðarflokkurin (JF). The latter 89-member electoral group, after a proportional distribution of the seats for which the Folketing is required to appoint members, is best entitled to the seat. I have received from this electoral group the recommendation that Christian Juhl (EL) be elected. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151204192737	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 8 December 2015, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
