ParlaMint-DK_20150123100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Per Clausen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 56 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the recognition of CO 2 2 Per Clausen (EL) and Others): Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 57 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on grazing cattle). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150123100039	The debate is open. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123100044	Thank you. Today it is the case that anyone who fears that he will no longer be able to take care of his interests, his financial and personal circumstances later, can write a general power. It is recognized in theory, in law, etc., but it is only rarely recognised in practice. When the agent is standing in the bank with such a general power, and when the principal suffers from dementia, it turns out that the bank manager rarely respects it anyway. So it is not a good and practical phenomenon that one has in the form of a general authorisation. The second option is to do nothing. Then everything else will happen equally, that you will be deprived of authority and that a guardian will then be appointed via the state administration. It also has its minuses. On the one hand, it is a rather complicated affair, partly, and that is almost the worst, a person who is not known is not known when he was in his right mind, and that is also very worrying. So from this point of view, the proposal we are going to deal with today is, in fact, one of the better ones from the government. I am tempted to say that it is one of the very best. This is an excellent proposal which the Left fully supports. The proposal here gives the authorized representative, while he is in full five years if I may say so in this way, an influence on how to deal with the personal and financial situation since then, and not least who should decide who should represent the person, who should be the authorized representative. This is an extremely good proposal. I have noted that Article 3 of the Treaty empowers the Minister to lay down detailed rules on this matter, and I have also noted that the comments state that those who do not have access to the digital procedure, which is otherwise provided for by the law, may seek assistance from the State Administration. I think this is very important, because who will in practice draw up these powers of the future? It is rarely young people of 20 years of age who think so far. It is probably mostly older people who may have been a bit surprised by the digitalisation and who at least do not have the full equipment for it. So I attach great importance to them being able to seek the necessary assistance. The second and most important point that can be added and that we need to make something of in committee is the relationship between the creation of this mandate itself. It is, of course, a creation that per year. the definition must take place while you are in your right mind and can take care of your interests and have the opportunity to identify the one who is responsible for your interests once you have become demented or what condition you may now have come into. But again this applies: who will sign this in practice? They are rarely young people of 20 or 30 years of age. It is often older people who may predict a dementia coming. It is precisely for this reason that we need to be clear about the circumstances in which such powers of the future are signed. I am thinking of the situation that, in order to spell it out now, a dubious personage can pass by and convince the elderly that they should have a future power, and then they can fix it themselves digitally and can submit it to the register, etc. and in this way ensure that the assets of the earlier authorizing officer are authorized. We should be careful not to do that, and how do we do it? We do so by considering whether a few guarantees or at least a greater security should be provided in the establishment situation, and this could be done by referring to the rules of the succession law on the establishment of wills, either a testament of witnesses, where there must be two witnesses present, or a notary will. By the way, 300 kr. The notary will ensure that you are in your right mind. So perhaps we should consider putting these valves in and saying that a mandate must be created in the same way as if it were a will. There is basically only the difference that the will relates to the distribution of the fortune after death and that the power of the future concerns the fortune before death. It's not that big a difference. It is, of course, a quite wide mandate that we have, and that is why I think it is important that we also get to grips with the circumstances in which it is created, so that we are sure that the proxy was in its entirety five, and that it was the agent's wish that the proxy holder in question be given the right to dispose of the assets later. I think we should try to look at that in committee. But summa summarum I can say that the Left can give warm support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123100549	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123100557	Unfortunately, we all have people in our associations who have been ill or injured to such an extent that they have not been able to make decisions themselves, not even who should make decisions on their behalf. The bill here introduces a system of future powers designed to strengthen the right to self-determination and make it possible, in safe forms, to influence their own lives, their own future conditions despite illness or the loss of mental capacity, for example, and to choose who should make decisions in the future. With this bill, the Danes themselves will be able to appoint one or more future representatives, what the bill calls future agents, to carry out their economic and personal affairs, whose illness or impaired mental function should occur. It means a lot to many people that while you're in your right mind five, you can be allowed to identify this person yourself. We Social Democrats look very positively at the proposal here. This is a significant strengthening of the legal position of the population and, above all, a slap in the back for the far too many people suffering from diseases which will mean a long-term mental reduction. It is also worth noting that the proposal here has been a wish, and it has been a long time, from a large number of organisations that are just focusing on these target groups. The Left made a suggestion that you could look at whether safety is sufficient. We will by no means reject that. I think it makes sense for us in committee to discuss whether there is any evidence to see how the approval is being carried out. In those words, we Socialists can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123100809	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Liselott Blix as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123100822	As a health rapporteur, I have been allowed to negotiate this bill. This is because it is a very important legislative proposal for the weakened elderly and the ill-advised people. There may be many reasons why you cannot make a decision yourself later in life, and therefore it is also important that we have documents such as this power of the future, which can ensure security in your future. It is a power of the future that you have to draw while you are capable, so you know what you are doing, so that you ensure that your relatives, such as you, are able to do. marriage mates or children can ensure your financial and personal circumstances on the day you cannot. Unfortunately, it is the case that you may be affected by dementia, be exposed to accident or brain damage, which means that you cannot make relevant decisions yourself. So at first glance, we are in favour of this bill. However, there are certain knots that we in the Danish People's Party think we should look at, and we will see if we can extend the proposal so that it can also cover several of the personal circumstances that guardianship also covers. Yesterday I was at the welfare conference made by the Danish Nursing Council, the FOA and the Elders Case. It was a very interesting conference on how to ensure a dignified old age even if you become ill and move to a nursing home. Unfortunately, some are affected by dementia and therefore cannot consent to different treatments, monitoring or the like. This is a great grief for relatives and a great challenge for staff. That is why we in the Danish People's Party want to be able to create a care and treatment testament, as in Norway, where you explain how you want to be treated if you get so bad that you cannot take a stand yourself. Today a life testament can be made in Denmark. But with that, you only decide if you want life-long help when you're dying. We also have a foster will where you can decide how you want your personal care as a toothbrush etc. But nowhere can you ensure which treatment you will say no to, and whether you want resuscitation, antibiotic cure, probe food or the like, if you get sick at some point. In Norway, the elderly can write down what care you want at the end of life: Whether you want to resurrect, whether you want to die in peace, rather than being transported back and forth in an ambulance from care center to hospital, and how to react in life-threatening situations. Dignity means you can decide for yourself how the last time should be, and so we would like to see this proposal as the key to ensuring that the elderly and the sick can choose an agent to ensure that your wishes are followed. As we heard at yesterday's conference, there is a study that shows that what we Danes are most afraid of is how we are cared for and treated when we get older. It was 59 percent who were most afraid of it, while 35 percent. was nervous about the economy. It puts this proposal in perspective when you only want to ensure that it is the economic conditions that you want to deal with, not the personal ones. We regularly see problems for people with dementia. We cannot ensure the best treatment because the person cannot consent. 90,000 Danes are estimated to be affected by dementia, and last year alone about 15 demented died after disappearing. Among them was a patient from Hvidovre Hospital, which contributed to the hospital management's application to the Ministry of Health for permission to use GPS, but they were refused. If there had been an agent who could say yes on behalf of the elderly, that would not have happened. That is why we want to talk about some of the things that we want to talk about during the discussion of the proposal, and of course we also want to talk about, as others have mentioned, how the creation takes place, how one gets witnesses, and, as Danske Regions have pointed out, if one cannot gather the registers, so that people in one place can decide on many of the things that are important in life and that they cannot decide for themselves when they get this far. It's donor records, foster wills, life testaments, etc. We look forward to the further examination of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101233	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen, radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101239	Thank you very much, President. We can support this good proposal radically. I will be relatively brief. I think there have been some excellent points from the three previous rapporteurs. The only thing I want to say in this way is that the draft law is, in particular, an aid to citizens who are affected by illness and know that within a certain period of time they cannot take care of themselves any longer. I have a great deal of sympathy for the many Danes who are affected every year by terrible diseases such as AIDS. dementia. They certainly do not have an easy time. If we can make their last time as conscious a little more clear for themselves, their relatives and also third parties as such, it is actually a really, really good idea. And I think it is very good that future powers can also be given to more than just economic conditions. We can then discuss whether it should be extended even more. But in the end, there are probably many who think of much more than just the economic. That is why we can support this good legislative proposal radically, and we are also looking forward to the continued discussion in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101345	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101353	My political colleagues have already told us why this proposal is a good one. We in the SF can also support it. We think it is a very good idea to have an opportunity to be master of one's own life and to make some decisions at a time when one is in one's right mind, about how life should shape itself if one is no longer. We see this as a step in the direction of providing citizens with some more opportunities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So we think it is a very good proposal and we look forward to seeing how the initiative will be used and managed, and, above all, it is also a recommendation from the Council of Europe. So there's support from the SF for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101441	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101447	As several rapporteurs have said here from the platform, this is a legislative proposal which introduces the possibility that, in particular, dementia sufferers can plan their future and maintain some self-determination. This will probably also mean that we can avoid some guardianship and thus allow people to have as much of their own self as long as possible. It is an opportunity to be able to determine economic and personal interests while you can, but also to decide what will happen when you are no longer able to take care of these things for yourself. It is not, of course, a question here of depriving people of legal capacity, but of giving them the opportunity to receive the help they need without having to be deprived entirely of their own competences. So we think that in Enhedslisten is really, really positive. After all, as we can read in the hearings, we have listened a great deal to some of the organisations that have been shouting about this for a long time, so we are glad it is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101610	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101621	This high thing, which the voters in the greatest wisdom have put together in the way that is now the case, is, after all, burdening the same people with a wide range of laws and rules, taxes and taxes that limit their opportunities and freedoms in daily life. But that is how you have to live, if not with your own decisions, so sometimes with others. Here, for once, we have a proposal where there is really cause for rejoicing. This is simply one of the best legislative proposals in this Assembly, and I have looked forward so much to having to deal with it because, for once, there are better opportunities for people to decide on their own lives. We simply make sure that you are not left in the care of others when you are no longer able to choose for yourself who should administer on behalf of yourself. So I really think that this is an incredibly beautiful proposal, for which I am also pleased that there is such broad and broad support. Several parties have said that it might be possible to extend the area even more than has been proposed here, and we would very much like to take part in looking at this from the Liberal Alliance, so I hope that the Minister will also be open to this, so that we can have a real discussion and see whether we can actually give even more opportunity, in advance, to decide on our own life, as it were, when we find ourselves in a dull situation later on. We shall vote in favour of it as it is, but we hope that the Minister will help to improve it even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101806	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101818	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party also fully supports this bill. It's a bill that fits completely with the conservative value framework, because we have the slogan "People first," and it can be said to a large extent that this bill is about. So we pay tribute to the government making such a bill. After all, it is a question of being able to appoint the person who has to take care of your interests. If you are unable to take care of yourself by accident, illness or otherwise, you can decide for yourself who has to deal with the difficult decisions that have to be made and that have an impact on the rest of your life. We think that's really good people first. So there is full support from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101904	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123101915	Thank you. I almost have to start with the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, because now I have been working with Mr Liberal Alliance. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll in many contexts... he doesn't even listen to what I say... but I have, and we have always had a good cooperation, but it's rare to see the Liberal Alliance rapporteur so happy and so positive and so positive. We simply have to seize that. It is, of course, and it has nothing to do with the fact that it is this government that is making the proposal because it is actually a very good proposal. Of course, I should say that about all the legislative proposals, but this is really a legislative proposal that will provide real people with real tools in potentially real, really difficult situations. I actually think we can all imagine how difficult it is when the illness or disability reaches such an extent that one is no longer able to make decisive and important decisions about one's own life; how difficult it must be; how inferior it must feel; and how much burden it can be for relatives and, of course, oneself. That is why I think this draft law is important and I would like to thank you for the broad support for it. Of course, we answer all the questions that may be asked. But I hear that all parties are in favour. It can be said that what we are basically doing with the proposal here is taking an important step to ensure that, while one has the ability to do so, one gets the opportunity to decide to whom responsibility for one's financial and personal relationships should be entrusted if one is unable to deal with one's own affairs later in life. A lot can happen in our lives. There are operations that can go wrong. We could be exposed to road accidents. We may be affected by some of the now large public diseases which at some point make it so great that we are no longer able to decide for ourselves, for example. economics or other vital issues. That is why the draft law here is also a helping hand to the growing number of citizens affected by dementia and, as a result, needs us to have a better knowledge of how they want to organise things. With the scheme here we ensure that a third party can do so, for example. be banks can have confidence that a future agent is legitimate to act. This is, of course, important in order for the agent to actually be able to represent the principal. The proposed system also makes it possible to appoint a future representative in the personal field, that is to say. a person who can help make important decisions about care and care and what is very close. In other words, it is not only a question of the economy, but also of what comes very, very close. I am delighted that we are getting so far with this proposal. I have, of course, taken note of the fact that the Alzheimer's Association is pleased and welcomes the proposal here, and this is one of the groups that we have of course considered in the preparation of the proposal. So thank you for your positive support and we will answer all the questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102250	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102256	Thank you and thank you for the Minister's speech on what is happening. But the Minister was talking about this personal relationship. I believe that many people will get their eyes bumped if they think that important decisions can be made on personal matters. After all, many would like to see these important circumstances brought about by resuscitation and so on. But that is not what matters, as the answers to the hearings also describe, and where Danske Regions also say that the most important thing is to grant all rights in relation to the power of the future. Otherwise, health professionals will actually become more confused and they will not be aware of what it is they can be authorized to do. Is this something that the Minister will look at in the course of further consideration, so that perhaps, as several of us also mentioned, we can extend the system so that we can take the decisions that are the hardest in life?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102348	It can be said that the proposal here has made a very precise balance on how far we think we can go. Whether there is anything quite specific about the health profession that I think the rapporteur has more insight into than I do, we will have to discuss it during the committee procedure. But I can at least say as much as that there is no coincidence in why the balance has been laid as it is, and thus also the scope. But when it comes to some of the specific health professions, I should be allowed to return to it, because there is an insight from the rapporteur which I do not have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102422	That's it? Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102438	The debate is open. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102449	Thank you. Left rapporteur on the matter, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, could not be present. I have promised to read out his speech and it is as follows: we are today discussing the government's proposal, L 95, on the amendment of the Aliens Act. The proposal is about strengthening police controls at borders and at airports, and about tightening the level of fines imposed on illegal entry, residence and work by foreigners. The draft law also gives the police an explicit power to receive relevant passenger data from customs authorities and an authorisation for the Minister of Justice to lay down detailed rules on control, including on access by the police to information for the purpose of carrying out the checks. In addition, the bill contains that a license plate recognition, which has previously been on an experimental basis, is used as a permanent working tool for Danish police in border control, including the installation of stationary ANPG cameras in close association with selected locations at border crossing points supplemented by mobile cameras in border areas. The Left would like to sign that the bill provides for an increase in the level of fines and penalties for foreigners who illegally enter, stay and work in Denmark. It is an important signal to send to foreigners that we are raising the penalty for illegal entry, residence and work, and that there is a sharpening of the penalty in relation to repeat cases. However, we question whether it is enough to tighten the sentence and increase the level of fines for having entered illegally in Denmark. After all, the debate over the last few days has shown that it is extremely questionable. In relation to the permanent use of license plate scanners, the Left is, as a starting point, positive about their use, but the proposal lacks any clarification on the use of license plate scanners, which I hope we can go into in more detail, especially during committee reading. This is among other things. unclear what is meant by "anonymised traffic data' and whether the processing of personal data is carried out within the framework of the Personal Data Act. To this end, it is important for the Left that it be made clear what information may be stored, for what purpose the data may be used and for how long the data may be stored. For the Left, it is crucial that we have specific rules for the use by the police of plate scanners and information published by them. As I have said, the draft law provides for an authorisation for the Minister of Justice, who authorizes the Minister to lay down detailed rules on control, including: on access by the police to information for the purpose of carrying out the checks. It is important for the Left that there should be, among other things. is so open about the powers given to the Minister that the committee is kept informed of the process and can lay down the rules. The Left has noted that Danish Industry and Danish Aviation have expressed concern about the administrative and financial burdens potentially imposed on the industry. It is absolutely essential that we do not unnecessarily pass the bill on to business, which is already the victim of excessive taxes and burdens. It is very important to the Left that we always work to ensure better framework conditions for our business community, and therefore the Left will also ask questions during the committee debate on the concerns of Danish Industry and Danish Aviation. Finally, I would like to say that the Left is positive about the proposal and sees good tactics in it. I look forward to the committee reading where we can clarify some of the parts of the legislative proposal that the Left has reservations about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102834	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Trine Bramsen as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123102842	Crime in Denmark goes down in the vast majority of areas. Not since 2007 have we had so few break-ins, and the number of cottage break-ins is the lowest in 35 years. That's a good thing. But the fight doesn't end here. It continues as long as Danes are victims of the undesirable behaviour of criminals. Criminals are crossing borders on an increasing scale. It is not only a development that we see in Denmark, but throughout the world. That is why, of course, we must also direct our action towards criminals so that it matches developments. With this proposal, the government wants to strengthen police control facilities in border areas and airports, including at internal borders. This concerns, among other things: on the creation of a new legal framework for police control of foreigners in border areas and airports and the adjustment of the level of fines imposed on illegal aliens in Denmark. This means, among other things, that there are grounds for license plate and pass scanners, which are effective tools for combating illegal activities. Intelligent border controls provide a good basis for encoding the behaviour of criminals and, on that basis, putting an end to their undesirable activities, whether in relation to trafficking in human beings, terrorist planning, foreign thieves or, above all, illegal entry. The draft law also authorises the Minister of Justice to lay down detailed rules on control, including on access by the police to information for the purposes of carrying out the control, including: information from airlines' booking systems. It is worth noting that information already taken up by airlines can contribute to the police's work in preventing and solving crime. As I started by saying, from a political point of view, we must be constantly prepared to tackle the undesirable behaviour of criminals with new tools. It is against this background that we are discussing this bill today. In these words, we Socialists support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103102	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103106	Thank you for the floor. I have a question, because something that puzzles me about the legislative proposal that we have here is quite simple: you make a lot of jumbles and a lot of patchy solutions because you do not dare or want to introduce real border controls. In other words, there is no doubt, for our part, that the most intelligent control is border control. There are some down at our borders, watching the traffic that goes in and out, and it is natural to do that where Denmark's border begins or ends. So I cannot understand why the government and the Social Democratic Party are not much more ambitious, as we are, when it comes simply to introducing this border control. 'Cause all this is just a bump. A check is being carried out which must not be called border controls and which must not therefore be at the border. It can be in a 20-mile zone; it just can't be down at the border. This is the sort of thing that has been found out in this Schengenutopia: you must not have border controls. I would like to ask the rapporteur about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103214	We Social Democrats are preoccupied with the control that works. And may I not give an example of where this border boom is actually being abolished. Out at Copenhagen Airport it is the case that today there are police officers who control everyone who goes through; it is a physical control of the people who go through. There has actually been a desire from the police to get electronic pass scanners instead, because then the police can spend their energy on the criminals, those who bouncing out. This is a good example of the fact that simply placing a boom and some crew is not necessarily the best solution, but that by means of technology and intelligent control we can get to those who are the problem: the thieves and the other criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103304	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103306	I mean, I must be free to say nonsense, nonsense and spin. I know that the Social Democratic Party and other parties here in Parliament very cleverly made it happen that we would have set up such a red-and-white-painted boom at the border. That's bullshit! Well, that's never been what we're going to do. What we're going to do is... Electronic pass scanners, fine, excellent for us, license plate scanners, excellent for us. We're just saying that the natural place to do the control will be at the border. It is very simple that there are some intelligent customs officers sitting down there and also watching the traffic. But then you just place those customs officials somewhere else, up in the country, because they can't stand down at the border. We think that is absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103354	It is just a little remarkable that the Danish People's Party is currently running a large-scale advertising campaign, where there are red-and-white border barriers and a demand for, yes, border barriers. But let it go. The natural thing for us Socialists is to hunt down the criminals, and that is why we are concerned about how best to get to the criminals without bothering ordinary law-abiding citizens who cross the border every day in connection with work and law-abiding errands. And frankly, I think it would suit the Danish People's Party if they also started to focus on catching the criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103429	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103432	Several of the responses to the consultation are expressed among other things. also concerns that the Danish Data Protection Agency is not actually sufficiently aware of this, either in relation to the registration plate or the passenger data, before we actually adopt the bill here in the Danish Parliament. It does not seem that this is something that has been taken into account by the rapporteur. Is there no concern on the part of the Socialists at all about whether we are going to adopt something that we do not know what is? At least in the short term, one can be pleased that it is authorised by a party member, but it can soon be different if the electorate so wishes. Do you not have any concerns in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103521	We Social Democrats have full confidence that the Minister of Justice will discharge the responsibility we are giving here today, with respect for the fact that there must of course be the necessary balance. And then I have to say that it is not the case that we are adopting this today, and then the Folketing does not have a word to say. No, we always have an opportunity to go in and look after the minister. This is our commitment as Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103549	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103551	Should I understand in this way that the Social Democracy really does not care at all about the right of ordinary people to privacy? You just throw that over to the Attorney General. That's not an answer. I think it is a boundless naive belief that the current government will do the best it can at any time. For us, at least, there is confidence that some people will do better than others, but that is a political assessment. What is interesting is: do we have a hand in hand with what powers we give, and is there a concern when the Data Protection Agency says that you do not actually know what you are doing, either in one area or in another? After all, we have been sitting together in the working group on digital security and all that sort of stuff. I'm just about to say that it's amazing that you can ignore these hearings while you've been sitting and doing that job. These two things are not connected at all in my world.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103650	May I remind you that we are dealing with a very serious problem. Terror's not a joke. We are increasingly seeing crime crossing borders, and therefore the starting point for this bill here is not to harm ordinary people, not to pry in their privacy, but to have an effective tool so that we can prevent and so that we can fight those people who have malicious errands. Let me repeat that I am fully confident that the authority that we are discussing here today in the Danish Parliament will be exercised with respect for that balance and that we will, of course, be able to keep up with the work of the Danish Parliament at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103732	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103735	I would like the rapporteur to elaborate on the answer to the question from the Liberal Alliance. Well, there are no limits to the bill right now. There is an authorisation clause whereby the Minister is allowed to decide what information may be collected, how long they may be stored, what they may be used for, to whom they may be disclosed. Does it in no way concern the rapporteur that information about where Danish citizens are will be collected in such a way as to be able to collect a lot and that one does not even know what the Data Protection Agency says about it yet, other than that they have expressed concern in the past, when one tried to implement it just like that without asking first?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103826	With this bill it is as with all other legislative proposals: we are very close to what it says; we are of course considering it; we weigh the advantages and disadvantages of a legislative proposal. In this case, then, we have come to the conclusion from the Socialists that we are not concerned about the authority we give to the Minister. We are confident that the Minister will manage it with great responsibility. I should also like to add that there is no question of new information. These are information already collected by the airlines.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103903	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103904	I am not going to question why the Socialist rapporteur trusts the Socialist Minister. That makes sense, and I'm glad to hear it too. Sounds like it's going well in the party. Great! Does the rapporteur perhaps have any thought that there might be some on the other side of the Parliamentary Chamber who one day sat down on that ministerial post and who were perhaps less concerned with the security of citizens' data, the right to keep personal data confidential, the right to privacy, where you are at when, when you are not suspected of anything criminal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123103947	Well, in general terms, in this Parliament, we must always follow the work of the ministers and the barn. That is to say, if we go beyond the powers that we believe are reasonable here in the Folketing, then it is clear that we must take action, and I would not deny that in a conceivable scenario there can be a bourgeois minister who goes too far. However, I do believe that it is Parliament's job to monitor the Minister, and in this case neither I nor the Socialists have reason to doubt that the Minister for Justice will manage this provision with great responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123104026	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123104034	Thank you. Schengen cooperation was brought forward at the time by the utopian idea of frontier-free Europe. The idea has the premise, which is the EU's prerequisite today, that the nation states are bad and that the borders express something terribly evil. There must simply be no borders, and therefore there must be no border controls. Today's proposal is, in fact, an expression of the utopian idea of frontier-free Europe and of the meeting with reality that is taking place at the moment. The fact that we have no border controls has meant that these criminals are returning again and again. The idea has therefore suffered shipwreck in the face of reality. Schengen's external borders are hollow like a sieve, and it is precisely the security of the external borders that was the very prerequisite for abandoning border controls. Foreign robberies are raiding in Denmark; Eastern European criminals come again and again and commit crime in Denmark, even if they have been expelled. We have seen it in the media, and it is a grotesque farce that takes place. Now we are trying to find patchy solutions, which are called intelligent controls or border control, because this should not be called border controls. Let me say straight away: there is only one intelligent control in the current situation, and that is border control. Everything else is patching up. Well, the proposal is a patchy solution, but it is better than nothing. There is then a relationship that I find quite strange and actually also outrageous that does not come with any money at all. The proposal is cost-neutral. I simply do not understand that. How does one imagine that the current critical situation can really be changed if funds are not set aside for the increased controls that will be carried out? Yes, the proposal is so made according to both Dutch and French models, among others. by extending checks from vehicles to aircraft and ships and also by empowering the Minister of Justice to draw up guidelines on how control in the border area is to be carried out. And that is what we really need. In the Netherlands, as a model, they have established rules to clarify the intensity and frequency of checks and thus to determine how intensive, how often and how random checks can be carried out. And in this way, you can avoid border controls or even talk about them. It is also being done in such a way that information can be exchanged between customs authorities and police, and that is what is actually needed, I think, even though, of course, we must keep a critical eye on citizens' legal certainty. But let me just mention that in August, because the government felt that there was no legal basis for this PIU cooperation, which was under way at Copenhagen Airport between the Copenhagen Police and customs officials, and that it was possible to control and catch the criminals and those who have nothing to do in Denmark, that cooperation was abolished. The homework for this cooperation is gone, leaving the officers at the airport completely in no man's land. The control authorities out there have themselves indicated that a completely grotesque situation has arisen out there at Kastrup Airport, where a terrorist who had previously been stopped can go through as a reporter. It is, of course, intolerable that this is the case, and I hope that we have also asked for a relatively rapid solution to this situation. So, of course, there must be some sort of control. It is also fine that the penalties are increased in relation to illegal residence and to working illegally in Denmark. We would like them to be even taller. But just to put it plainly: we would have liked to have gone to the bite and introduced a border control which is the only really intelligent control. And of course it needs to be supplemented with license plate scanners and pass scanners etc. It is therefore our job to protect Denmark and the Danes, and it is best done at the border • that is, the border that marks that there is something called Denmark and where the Danes live their lives. The border states that Denmark is a national state, and border controls express our willingness to defend Denmark against, among other things, Denmark. This cross-border crime. That is why, at the second reading of this draft law, we would also like to table an amendment to reinstate border controls. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123104600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123104610	Thank you for the floor, President. We Radicals can support the use of tougher means to carry out checks at border areas and airports, since it is within the Schengen Agreement and is already practised in the Netherlands. A certain degree of border control is needed based on intelligent police work and not based on old-fashioned border controls. We recognise this and we can therefore support the proposal here. However, I would also like to be honest and say that we have been pretty concerned about the automatic license plate recognition, also known as ANPG, and we will also be forward-looking. It is extremely clever, but there is also a risk that it may be a slippery slope, because the technology can be used for many things. At this stage, however, we can support the use of ANPG by the police. So, overall, we can support this proposal radically. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123104715	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123104729	There is no doubt that intelligent border controls are the way forward. After all, the South and South Jutland Police had invited both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration to a day on Monday when they told about the results with what they have tested, and it has to be said that the results are convincing. There have been better opportunities to go after travelling criminals, and in some cases they are even beginning to bypass Denmark because they know that the risk of being taken is significant. If you have to take their words at face value, it is certainly better to use your powers in this way than to stop everyone from having to, and I believe they know something about that, because they are the ones with the police profession. So of course we have to go that way, and we have also in the SF warmly supported the idea of license plate scanners. In fact, we think it offers some really good opportunities. We have seen in England how it actually gets fucked criminals and how you can go after them very carefully. There is also good experience with the tested equipment in Denmark, so it can certainly be valuable in the fight against cabotage and travelling criminals. The only thing I'm not so happy about is that this bill doesn't really stick out what such a scheme should look like. So, we don't know much about how data should be collected, under what conditions and how long they should be stored. We are a little worried about just giving the Minister the full go to make a scheme because we really do not know what we are saying yes to. So it would be right, very good, that we should have a political assessment of that issue when we know how the system is to be organized. We are thinking in the SF at least that we must have something clear soon, since the scheme is intended to enter into force as early as 1 March, so it must be close. We are not so happy in the SF that you have to monitor everything and everyone, and therefore it is extremely interesting for us to learn more about how it should be arranged. In relation to passenger lists, I would say that this is, of course, a tool we already have. We are reasonably reassured that what the Minister is proposing is that you should go after the criminals, you should like to have some in your eyes. It is not a surveillance of everything and everyone and their travel patterns. It is a little different with what is being looked at at at EU level at this stage. We will deal with that model later, and it seems somewhat more aggressive than what is being proposed here. It is good that there is also some legal basis for doing what you do in France and in the Netherlands, where you can do not make systematic checks, but at least some sort of border control when you face very specific challenges, such as the fact that there are a great many illegal travellers at some point, and you can then respond to that challenge. So we think that is fine, but we must also say that there are some things that need to be pierced in committee before we can take a final position. We are generally positive, but we have concerns about the license plate scanners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123105101	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123105104	I would like to make one comment on the rapporteur's speech, because there was an expression which does not appear in the proposal at all but which I expect will be used in the current debate, namely intelligent border controls. The proposal does not say anything about that. There is intelligent control of border areas, but there is no intelligent border control. We want to have intelligent border controls, as we have been saying all along, but that is just not what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123105144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123105145	I think that's mostly a comment. What the Danish People's Party last introduced was not a border control, even though we talked a lot about it, it was a customs control. I think we can afford to call what the proposal provides for, an intelligent border control, in the sense that it is not necessarily checks on a dotted line of identity and of passports, and where we do not have the opportunity to stop everyone. Here you can set up your • what can you call the border controls, where you expect the criminals to be, so you go after them with determination. I can only encourage the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to make such a visit to the South and South Jutland Police, because they can actually tell about quite significant results with exactly this type.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123105238	Sir. Christian Langballe? Not anymore. Then I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123105250	I would like to start by saying that we fully agree in the Enhedsliste with the aim of wanting to improve our efforts to combat cross-border crime, which involves some of the most terrible forms of crime we can possibly imagine, then border control is one of the tools that is needed. That is why we also think that giving an extended opportunity for the police to control vehicles is a fine element in the bill, not least when you consider that there are people coming to Denmark who have no ties with Denmark, who do not have family here, who do not have a life here, but repeatedly come to Denmark to commit crime. There is much trafficking in human beings from Eastern Europe, where people live in much, much poorer conditions than we do here in Denmark, and some, especially women, are cheated, deceived, forced to come to Denmark and, for many, forced into prostitution or forced labour. It is quite creepy, and it is one of the things that I hope we can be better able to prevent in Denmark. Having said that, in the Enhedslisten we have a problem with the two authorisation provisions that are also included in the bill. There are two provisions which allow the Minister to lay down some rules later. First of all, it is quite a matter of principle that ministers are simply allowed to lay down rules because they are difficult. It must be, if they are not so important that you may be able to do so, but if they are difficult and important, it is a bad thing to let a minister draw up the rules. And if you do as the Socialist rapporteur just argued, namely that as long as the Folketing keeps an eye on the ministers and monitors the work of the ministers, which I think was the term used, then it is okay, I could say that then we do not need a Parliament, because then we can put the ministers in charge of drafting the legislation, and then we other people just have to keep an eye on it, and so we can step in if we think it is wrong. So, in the Enhedslisten, we are in principle opposed to such a drift with authorisation provisions, and especially in this case, when the reason is that it has simply not been possible to formulate the legislation properly before the draft law has to be dealt with, and then we have to let the Minister draft it later, and then we hope it will go well. We don't think that's okay. The second is the content of the two authorization provisions. One of them gives the police access to some passenger data... something that I have heard the Minister of Justice is very enthusiastic that the police should have access to, but has been trying to negotiate in the European Union for two years now, when Parliament has prevented legislation from being implemented precisely in the interests of fundamental freedoms. Now, instead of giving the police direct access to the booking systems, they want to have access to some minor information, the information to be stored under the Aviation Act, but still some sensitive personal information. There are two options in the bill. One is that in the course of their work the customs authorities tell the police that there is some information that is interesting. So, contrary to what the SF rapporteur has just said, there is also direct access for the police to look into the information. At least that is what the comments say. In addition, the second authorisation clause is about this thing with the security of license plates. In the Enhedslisten, we cannot object to checking whether a license plate is wanted, nor do we mind that it is a scanner who checks whether a license plate is wanted, whether a car has to be checked, whether the insurance has not been paid, but we have a problem when you also store the information on positions of all those citizens who have done nothing wrong and who are completely in control of their papers and, by the way, are not suspected of anything criminal. This information has not been found to delineate, it has not been possible to determine how much information the police must obtain, how long they must be saved, what they must be used for, who the police must share this information with, and this is the subject of a dialogue with the Data Protection Agency. However, because it has not been possible to find out and because it has not been possible to define it, even if it is in the very confines of some form of legal certainty, it has been decided that it is probably better to leave it to the Minister. And again I would say that it is problematic that because something is difficult, the Folketing disclaims responsibility and leaves it up to minister and official work. It is both a practical issue, and it is also a matter of principle that we do not want to introduce a system in which ordinary people are monitored by their practices and barns when they are not suspected of anything criminal. I would like to conclude by saying that I am sorry that the rapporteur of the Left could not be here today, so that no questions could be put to the rapporteur of the Left, since the Left has also been critical of this particular registration system in the past. So if sir... Preben Bang Henriksen will pass on to the rapporteur of the Left that we would very much like to hear about what has done, that the Left is no longer critical of the registration system, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123105843	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123105850	Well, then peace is over... at least the joy. No, I am actually delighted, if nothing else, to see Mrs Pernille Skipper's speech when I cannot enjoy the bill. It is, of course, fine that there are various types of serious crimes that we would like to do something to better solve. So we have no objection to that in the Liberal Alliance. But we have a problem with the Minister of Justice coming to Parliament with such a mess as this bill really is. Rarely have I ever seen anything like it. After all, it is a completely unworked bill that the Danish Parliament is being presented with, and if there was any reasonable reason, then the Danish Parliament told the Minister of Justice that she had to go home and finish the work. The fact is that, both with regard to information on air passengers and the question of scanning license plates, we have not precisely defined what we want, as to what information is to be used in what way and to what extent. The Danish Data Protection Agency is critical of this, and it is of course backwards that the Danish Data Protection Agency should be involved after the Danish Parliament has dealt with it, instead of getting clear answers about how the Danish Data Protection Agency is dealing with these things. It is the question of legal certainty, it is the question of the right to privacy, and it is the question of the right not to be monitored. I also find it remarkable that, when I look at these problems, the Socialist rapporteur says: yes, yes, but it is because it is a serious problem. This means in general Danish that the more serious the problem is, the less serious we have to take the issue of legal certainty. It is, of course, the completely reversed world and a completely backward argument. I think that the Minister for Justice should speed up the work of putting these things into practice, speeding up the dialogue with the Data Protection Agency and calling the parties of the Danish Parliament for a discussion, so that we can define these things in a reassuring way, so that we can combat serious crime with respect for legal certainty and citizens' privacy. That would be a very beautiful gesture on the part of the Minister for Justice and would ensure that we have better legislative quality. On this basis, the Liberal Alliance cannot vote in favour of the draft law, but I would certainly not deny that if the Minister for Justice wants to help initiate such a process as I have just explained, we could end up voting in favour of a legislative proposal. However, this requires that thoroughness, quality and process be put in order. We will stand on the side of the citizens and for as long as it has the character it now has, we will be opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123110233	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123110246	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party agrees that more needs to be done to prevent illegal immigration and entry. We also agree that it is a good idea to use new technological solutions and opportunities to help the police. However, we would just like to take note of and point out that we do not believe that much is done by setting up pass scanners at the border. It is a bit naive to think that criminals who have been expelled line up and put their own passport in front of such a scanner. So it is not enough to do more and there must be more intelligent border controls. Then it is not much use to give the police more opportunities if there are no more policemen to carry out the tasks. So if, at the same time, more resources are not provided to the police, the new technology will be used much less, and when that happens it will be at the expense of other tasks that are then downgraded. That is why things have to go hand in hand: new methods, intelligent control, but it requires more policemen and more resources. After all, the police already have plenty to attend to, and in general, more money should be provided to the police so that more policemen can enter the streets and alleys that can help prevent, for example, deportees from entering. There was a television programme about that yesterday which, in the worst way, demonstrated that it was easy. But we must also be aware that we are a country surrounded by water, so there are many ways to get into the country. In the past, we have proposed that infringements of entry bans should be penalised much more severely. We think it should give 1 year of imprisonment, and we would actually call for the government to do something about this quickly. There can be no doubt that an entry ban is being violated and, in too many cases, the entry ban is being violated in order to get to Denmark, into Denmark, to commit new crime. That is why we believe that a violation of an entry ban must be punishable by a minimum of one year's unconditional imprisonment. During committee reading, we will also spend a great deal of time evaluating the new automatic plate approval system. We do not believe that the proposal can go directly to third reading until the Data Protection Agency has dealt with the police note on the use of automatic license plate recognition. The reason for our reservations is, of course, that we will be absolutely sure what the system is used for, how it is used, what data can be used for and how long data is stored, and at least be sure that it cannot or must be used for mass monitoring. So it is with some reservations that, on the one hand, we say yes to more intelligent border controls, more resources, new technologies, but there are some things that need to be fulfilled before we can give support to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123110545	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123110556	Thank you for the comments that have been made. I understand that Parliament also needs to discuss the proposal in detail here, because it is clear that when we give new powers and extend the scope of the work of the authorities, it must raise a necessary debate. I would also like to make it very clear that, as the country's Minister of Justice, I would like to know more about what is happening at our borders. I would like our authorities to have more muscles to handle that task. This is quite simply linked to the fact that more and more of the crime we see in Denmark comes in through the borders. Crime is now cross-border in substance. Current challenges in the form of terrorism, but also many other very serious forms of crime such as illegal immigration, human trafficking, trafficking in human beings, drug smuggling, weapons and a number of other serious forms of crime cross our borders, and that is why we need to have a better track record of what is happening at our border crossings. One might say that the proposal we are dealing with here is, of course, first and foremost a question of the fact that, on the part of the authorities, we want to combat illegal immigration and the crime associated with it. I believe that it is intelligent, targeted, analytical border controls that are needed. Because even if you had to wish yourself back to the good old days, when there were one verse cars on the side, it was not known to me that all cars were asked to pull over. There are many travellers in and out of Denmark both at the completely physical, obvious border between Denmark and Germany, but also via Kastrup Airport. I went to the airport yesterday, talked to our cops out there. We're talking right now about about about about about... Twenty-five million entryists. It will not be possible to control each of them, at least not if we want to use our police resources as wisely as possible. That is why it will be to put the Danes in the eye if they say that we will be able to control each entry to Denmark. We have to do something else. We need to know with new technology and with an analysis apparatus behind it where to put the controls in place. That is why we would like to use the license plate scanners; that is why, as the Socialist rapporteur mentioned earlier, we would like to use pass scanners at Copenhagen Airport. It is quite true that the whole idea is that the many people who travel in and, incidentally, out of Denmark alone for the sole purpose of getting to work or on holiday, must quickly pass through passport control, so that we can then also free police resources for the really important passport control, namely where there is suspicion of forged documents, where there is a suspicion that it is not the right person who wears the passport or where there may be patterns of travel that look suspicious or where we know that there may be smuggling routes. That's the whole idea of this. This is also why the proposal calls for the police to be given both new and effective tools. Once in a while one can get roundset, even as the Minister of Justice, because the Left has said in public that there is nothing new in the proposal here, and other parties say that there is so much new that they will not vote for it. They are even parties within the same political bloc, so perhaps we should also talk internally about how the bill here should be understood. I guess it's Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, who is right, is that there are new things in the proposal here. We can then, of course, disagree as to whether this is the right way to go or not. With all this, I am also saying that, in respect of Schengen cooperation and the opportunities and limitations it offers, there is a need to rethink our immigration control, and that is the work that we want to do. It is quite true, as several speakers have said, that there is a need for more detailed rules to be laid down in relation to the legislative proposal that is here, and this naturally requires the Minister for Justice to keep his tongue straight. At least it's capable of the Minister of Justice who is now. I can promise you that. I have also said on several occasions that I will of course return to the Folketing, because this is a relevant discussion for the parties of the Folketing. In order to be quite specific, I have said that once the discussions currently taking place between the Danish Data Protection Agency and the National Police Office have been completed, I will of course return to the Danish Parliament. Some of the rules that still need to be specified are on how often the checks must and can be carried out, the frequency and the geographical scope of the checks to be carried out. There, of course, we look not least to the Netherlands, which has good experience already today. Finally, the question raised by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur on police access to personal data, which means that, on a non-systematic basis, the police will have access to information on, among other things, data. the names of passengers, birthdays, nationalities and certain information on flights. It is perhaps also important to say that in the past the police have only been able to obtain such information about flights arriving outside the Schengen area, and now we are extending it to the Schengen area. So it is not a new regime as such. It is an extension of which passengers' information the police can access. I am always concerned that we find the right balance between the abilities, opportunities and capacity of the authorities to deal with, prevent and combat crime and terrorism, on the one hand, and on the other hand, what many people here are concerned with, namely our personal freedom and legal certainty in general. So I would say that when it comes to access to passenger data, I am not worried. This is simply linked to the fact that the information is available. After all, airlines, travel agents and other operators know who is flying in the aircraft, when they arrive in Denmark, where they have left, where they may have made their stay during their journey. It is information that exists. What we need in Denmark is what we are discussing today. I would like the Danish authorities to have access to that information, even within the Schengen area. And that is related to what Mr. Christian Langballe quite rightly points out that there are no European politicians who, with respect for themselves, can claim that all the external borders of the Schengen area are as they should be. That is also why we want to have proper control of the external borders at Kastrup Airport. There we have a special responsibility and we have to live up to it. However, nobody today can guarantee that everyone travelling within the Schengen area is here on a legal basis. That is why we also need to step up our efforts within the Schengen area, and that is one of the things we would like to achieve with this proposal. Then I would like to say on this proposal, and it will also apply in other contexts: I will not come to claim at any time and under any legislation that something does not go far if it is. We have just first dealt with a bill in this Parliament to be able to deprive people of the passport on the basis of a presumption of departure as a sacred warrior to Syria. This is a very far-reaching proposal, and it is also a question of new powers for the authorities. That is why we must, of course, think carefully. We already have. As far as further coinage is concerned, we will of course do so in a very similar way, and as regards the interest in the automatic plate scanners, which I fully understand, I will also return to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111436	There are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Langballe first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111440	Well, we haven't said that you can't make technological solutions in the form of pass scanners and license plate scanners. Excellent. The only thing we are just pointing out is that the proposal itself bears the hallmark of the fact that the only thing not to call it is border controls, because border controls in relation to this Schengenutopia are a bad word. That must not be mentioned. We are simply saying that the most intelligent place to carry out border controls is at the border. That is, in fact, just what we are pointing out. As a matter of principle, I believe that, rather than sneaking around, politicians should stop this utopia and then really take action to create effective border controls. The fact that there are people at the border, what would be wrong with that? Of course, there are all sorts of other things you can do, of course, clearly. But the fact that we must not call it a border control, and the fact that no one can actually be physically at the border watching who comes in and who goes out, I simply do not understand. There was a story in the media the other day that an IS supporter traveled from Istanbul up through Europe and was stopped in the English passport control. I think it is quite elementary that there is such a control, so it will of course do better. We cannot create a fine-meshed net to protect borders completely. Of course we can't. We do not imagine that in our party either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111618	That is why we should also support this, because the whole purpose of this is to gain greater control over what is happening at our border crossings. The person who had to support the Islamic State and who travels through Istanbul through Europe, I would like to find at the Danish border if he crosses it. And that is one of the things we can do if we both work together across borders, but also have the technology to recognise whether they are passports or documents from other authorities that we know are false or that we know the person's travel pattern. That's exactly what this is about. It is to gain better control of what is happening at our border crossings, but do so in the most intelligent way. That is, in fact, the whole point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111701	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111703	It is, of course, also my claim that a genuine border control system, combined with all sorts of other things, would be the most intelligent border control. But I'd like to ask you something else. In fact, we support the proposal; we have actually expressed our support for this proposal, but one thing that only puzzles us is why no money comes with it. When it turns out that the problem is so big and serious, where is the money? That is totally cost-neutral. It is estimated that with the same resources you can create an effective and intelligent border control... why isn't some money set aside for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111741	First of all, I would like to sign that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal. I am pleased about that, and I had thought of it as well, and I hope, of course, that many more parties will be involved. In relation to the economic issue, we have started much of what is here. We want to ensure a stronger legal basis for doing so, but for example the use of automatic license plate scanners is something the conciliation circle has already addressed. We have drawn the first Danish experience, the police say it is a good instrument, and now we would like to have it properly provided. With regard to passenger lists and all the work that is going on around, among other things. Copenhagen Airport, then it is in a very good way, and as I myself saw it at the airport yesterday, the Copenhagen Police has chosen to prioritise the effort at the airport, what I think is a wise decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111841	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111843	Thank you. I just have a few things. The Minister said that one might as well disagree on the direction, and I am not really even sure we are. I think we disagree more on whether the demarcation should be made by the Danish Parliament or the Minister for Justice, that is, that there is the disagreement. Because I find it difficult to understand, especially when it is of such a more changing nature that I understood, the Minister agreed that there was something new in the proposal, why it is then not said that it is the Folketing that makes the demarcation. But we do disagree on that. Then the Minister says: I will return to the Folketing with several of these things. What does that mean in practice? Does this mean that we are going back to conciliation or that we are going back to the Legal Affairs Committee, or what are we going back to?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111934	I would suggest that I return to the Committee on Legal Affairs, because I believe that interest is broader than in the conciliation circle, and I have already replied to the Folketing: that when the discussion that is going on between the Data Protection Agency and the National Police is over, I will do my job with the government, and of course I will also return to the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111954	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123111957	It is polite and friendly and all sorts of nice things to say about it, but it illustrates to me the very good point, namely that the Minister returns to the Folketing after his assessment, and the Minister can also blow the Folketing a piece, because that does not mean so much how and how. And then there's a parliamentary election, and then there's a fall, and what do I know before you ever get to relate to it again. That is to say, the rules will be, as the Minister thinks, no matter what the Folketing might think about that matter. And that's what I think is the pity, namely that you kind of turn the process upside down. I actually find it a little difficult to understand that the Minister did not think it was the most correct thing that the Folketing made these rules, so we were sure that there was popular support for legal certainty and not just a ministerial.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112047	In other words, it can be said that we have indicated that, as far as the content of the checks is concerned, how often they must be carried out in terms of geographical scope, the intensity, the frequency, we imagine to be very close to the Dutch experience. So it is not the case that the Folketing legislates completely blindly, and of course it should not be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112113	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112134	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112149	Much can be said about those of us who work in the field of justice... justice rapporteurs and the Minister of Justice... but at least we're getting around a lot today. Now we have discussed the powers of the future for those who may become ill or suffer so great a disability that they are no longer able to defend their own interests, we have discussed increased controls at our borders, and now we are looking at the electronic ankles. It is probably very good that we do not combine the three proposals, and it is also very good that we deal with them separately. In fact, I can reply very briefly, because the discussion which the Left raises with the proposal here, namely whether it should be the case that the competence to make decisions on serving with electronic anklet can be transferred from the Department of Criminal Welfare to the courts, is a discussion that we have already begun in the government and in the Ministry of Justice. We have done so on the basis of, among other things: a wish from the SF, but also from our own rapporteurs, who have said in different contexts that these ankle chains actually seem to be a really, really good instrument. Is that something we can use more than we do today? I have said yes to that, I would very, very much like to examine it. It is clear that, if we can get closer, we can sanction intelligently, wisely and with a resocializing purpose, and that there are more people who can maintain their ties, for example. in the labour market, while they are serving, it is a right way to go. So I have given undertakings both to my own rapporteurs and to the SF and now also to the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs that we are in favour of this idea. Then there are a few comments, because there is almost always. First of all, I think we should give a lot of thought to the question of whether we should transfer it from the Department of Justice to the courts, and if it would not in fact be better to aim for it to be done in both places. I would be sorry for the fact that the Department of Investigation is losing an instrument that actually seems to have a positive effect. So, in the further discussion, I would very much like us to come closer to saying, instead of saying, transfer from the budget, that it is an instrument that both the courts and the criminal services can use in the future. The Ministry of Justice has already met with the Association of Judges and relevant authorities, and on the basis of the very first discussions there are therefore a number of things which the Folketing will also have to consider. First of all, today, when you are serving with electronic ankle bracelets, there is what you call an aptitude test in the Department of Justice. So you have to find out if this form of service is the right one for the person to serve. What does that mean? This means that there are some who can serve with ankle bracelets and that there are some who cannot. It takes a suitable home to stay in a place when you have an ankle bracelet on your back, and there are also servings who say that having electronics on your back and being watched by some others is not the right way to do it. I think it's wise to go with us on our way. What you have to consider, of course, is that if you transfer this competence to the courts, you will certainly have to do some more aptitude tests. This is the first thing you have to uncover, because it is of course important for the Department of Criminal Welfare to use the resources properly. The next thing, and this is at least a matter of concern to many legal rapporteurs, is that we must be careful that this does not result in an extension of the length of proceedings in the courts. It can be said that an aptitude test must therefore be carried out before the case is brought before the court, and I would like to stress that this should not be the case, and I would like to stress that there are more delays or longer time limits. They are quite long in advance. Then there is the third question I just want to raise, and that is: what do we do if the convicted violate the terms of service? We must also take a position on this. With all this, I say that there are some things that we must do together in the legal field. But I think the direction of this is right, and I have indicated this to the Committee on Legal Affairs. What, then, is the conclusion? It is that I think we should work together in the Folketing. This will not be the case with a 'yes' to the motion for a resolution here, because we would therefore like to be able to take practical considerations into account, but there is something that would suggest that we might be able to agree here across a number of political parties, and that would be a good thing. It is also a receipt for one of the new breaks, which one has to say the ankles have been, in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112720	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112730	At the annual meeting of the Association of Judges this year, a proposal was made to extend the powers to decide on anklet service, that is to say that it was no longer just a matter for the Department of Criminal Services, but that the instrument could also be used in the courtroom. It was a proposal that we Socialists thought and considered positive, and that is why we also want to have the proposal examined in more detail in relation to a concrete implementation. It is also a proposal that we, among other things, are proposing. has discussed with both the Minister, SF, Conservative and, of course, our own government partner. The Left has subsequently tabled a motion for a resolution requiring the government, before the end of this parliamentary assembly, to change the decision-making power of electronic anklet service so that, in future, it will be the court which decides, as part of the judgment, whether or not an electronic anklet can be served. As I said, we are in favour of this, but we believe that there is a need for a closer examination of the possibilities and consequences of changing decision-making powers. Not least, it is our wish that the powers should not be transferred entirely to the courts, but should still be an opportunity for criminal justice. With those words, I would like to say that we Socialists are very much in favour of allowing the courts to impose an ankle bracelet, but there is a need for further nuances on the proposal, including a broader demarcation, and on that basis we cannot support the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112916	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112923	There is, of course, an English term called common sense, which is commonly called common sense in Jutland, and this is simply obvious common sense. So I really don't have much more to add. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112942	That's how short it can be done. Well, then, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen hasten to give his opening speech or his speech to the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123112954	Thank you, sir. President; I shall give a rapporteur's speech, not an opening speech. I was just surprised that it was as short a speech as Mr. Christian Langballe wanted to hold. However, I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur of the Left on this interesting motion for a resolution. We Radicals are willing to discuss this issue carefully, and so we have no fundamental consideration that an ankle bracelet cannot also be used as a form of sanction and not just as today as a form of service; that is what we find very exciting and interesting to dive into. However, there are some challenges that go on a little different things; I think that the Minister for Justice well addressed them. There was a point about §808 studies etc. I think it would be very good to look into this and other unresolved questions, so I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for looking into that. We shall await the outcome of this, so that we cannot support the resolution as it stands, but we share the intentions. However, we think it should be considered whether to transfer the entire decision-making power to the courts. It may well be that one should look at making a model where some of the jurisdiction lies with the courts and some of it lies with the Directorate of Criminal Services. But thank you for the floor and thank you to the Left for this good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113112	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113119	I think this is an excellent proposal, and I also have to say that, because I myself tabled an amendment on the same thing to the bill on community services • I chose so well to withdraw it because the Minister of Justice indicated that she was very positive about it here and now also looking at how it can be arranged in a way that allows the courts to impose an ankle bracelet. When it comes to the proposal here, it is something that I think we have all picked up after the annual meeting of the Association of Judges, where they just said they wanted to have the opportunity to do this, and it also makes a great deal of sense, because you are already obtaining personal examinations and getting them done, for example. must put people in community service, and it is about the same process. I have no problem with looking both at giving the courts an opportunity to judge it and also at the same time retaining the possibility of using the tool where they consider it good and sensible in the field of criminal justice; I can imagine that the two systems can live side by side. So I look forward to the Ministry of Justice having completed its investigation into this, and then I have great hopes that in the future the courts will be able to impose an ankle bracelet, which I think is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113239	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113245	I will see if I can stab the Danish People's Party and do it even more quickly by simply stating that I feel covered by what several rapporteurs have said, in particular the SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113301	Thank you. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113306	It is a quite sensible proposal which the Left has put forward here, namely that it will be possible to be sentenced to use electronic anklet for a period of time and thus to be punished. We are very much in favour of alternative penalties being used instead of just the traditional ones. If it is the case that the Left would like the motion to be put to the vote, we would be happy to vote in favour. If you would rather make a report, we would also like to contribute to it. If the point is that bureaucracy must also be able to keep up and that is what I understand is the main argument that it should not be adopted now... we must then unfortunately live in the reality in which we live, where bureaucracy beats all arguments, and then it takes the time it takes, and then I can hear that we will probably get it through some time in the next assembly, no matter who wins a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113403	Thank you. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113414	Thank you, sir. President. We can support the proposal to allow the courts, as part of the judgment, to provide that atonement can be done using electronic ankle chains. We think that is an excellent proposal from the Left. Had the Left asked, we would have liked to have been co-sponsors; similarly, we would have supported the amendment that we understand Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt had on the wall if it had appeared. Today it is left to the Department of Criminal Services to decide whether or not an anklet can be served. That arrangement has actually worked quite well, but it would be right to allow the courts to judge in ankle chains, so as to understand that the courts have different sanctions to apply when the penalty is to be meted out. After all, the courts can now impose all kinds of sanctions, but not an anklet service. This resolution changes that and we therefore support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113508	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113523	Thank you. When a defendant meets his defender in court, he asks two questions as a starting point. The first question is: is the press present? And after explaining that the presence of the press is a guarantee of legal certainty and that you should be glad if they are there, etc., which most people do not understand, the second question comes up: do I have to go into a prison? It's kind of important for the defendant to find out if the risk is that he's going to jail. So we can start by stating that this is an important element for the defendant. The next thing is that in these cases there are also some judges. They have examined the case from A to Z and have heard the defendant's explanation, the evidence and what else needs to be done in a procedure, and then they have to pass judgment. So the judges cannot understand today that they do not also have the element of whether the defendant is to serve a possible unconditional penalty by an ankle bracelet. The third is the judges. The judges can't actually understand that either. As my colleague Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has said, wonder was also expressed at the annual meeting of the Court of Justice on this arrangement. So summa summarum, it has to be said that everything in this way is in favour of this element being left to the courts to decide. These are the courts which already have all the information on the defendant. The Court of Justice is sitting with the Article 808 investigation, i.e. the personal investigation, is familiar with the facts of the defendants; the court has the defendants in front of it and can ask supplementary questions about the defendants' situation, and the court has a very good impression of the facts which need to be disclosed in connection with possible ankle-cracking. That is to say, whether they have housing, work, etc. etc. Thus, the judge has a very, very thorough examination of the conditions under which a possible anklet settlement is carried out, both from the defendant himself and from the person's examination, which lies before the judge. That is why I do not think there is any reason to push this procedure. I noticed that the Minister for Justice said that this would require an aptitude test, which among other things. includes whether you have your own home and whether you have something against the electronic ankle bracelet. I have to say that this is not another investigation. In fact, that is already what the paragraph 808 investigation says, which the judge has ahead of him. The Minister was also afraid that it might also extend the duration of the proceedings. No, it'll shorten the processing time. I can guarantee that. It will no longer be pushed forward with competence. Summa summarum we have to say, and I would like to acknowledge that everyone, including the Minister, spoke nicely and positively about the proposal. After doing so, half of the Parliamentary Assembly indicated that they could not vote for it. But I now take up the positive comments and look forward to the committee's reading. It is no secret that it is strange for judges and courts to have to decide on the punishment in a situation where conditional sentences can be made conditional on everything between heaven and earth, conditional on alcohol detoxification, drug rehab, stay in certain places, municipal supervision, etc., but nothing can be done on or on an ankle bracelet. So it's fallen a lot to the chest. However, I would like to thank you very much for your comments. Sounds like there's a basis for some good work on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113913	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113938	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123113951	After all, I have been so incredibly positive in the proceedings in this Chamber today, mostly because it has been my own proposals that we have dealt with, but also with the proposals made by the Left just before on the use of electronic ankle chains, I have been very positive. I simply will not be here with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk. After all, it is not every day that we in this Parliament have the opportunity to discuss how we have established our democracy and our people's rule, and it is, of course, in our own way welcome to do so from time to time. With this I also say very briefly and directly that we are a representative democracy in Denmark. And it's good that we are. I think there is reason to stand guard over that. It means translated into Danish that the rest of the adult part of the Danish population votes for some politicians, and then it is up to us to make the necessary political decisions and represent the different views and interests that exist. Basically, I am not buying what is undercurrent in the proposal here, namely that we are not in a position to do that. Because to the extent that we do not do that, you have to choose some other politicians. I am basically very confident that the political parties in Denmark represent the currents, attitudes and values that are in Danish society, and I have a similar degree of confidence in the Danish electoral population. If they disagree with the priorities we have and the choices we make, yes, they must of course vote for some others, and they do so from time to time. Precisely because so few of us are allowed to sit in the Folketing and be the ones who make the concrete decisions, we are only here for a short period of time. That is why we have time-limited periods, after which elections must be held, where each Dane has the opportunity to make the decisions that are now thought to be the right ones. So it can be said that with this I give unreserved support and support to representative democracy, with which I believe the resolution here basically violates. An open ministry appears to be a little bit colorful, and I have to understand the suggestion that there should be citizen-driven motions for resolutions that can be tabled directly to the Folketing. So I am a strong supporter of representative democracy. It also follows that we take responsibility, both for the choices we make and for the choices we do not make, or for the things we choose and the things we opt out. I think it's a good thing that this is the case. Then there is also the constitution, and of course it directly follows that it is the people who elect the members of the Folketing and that it is the Folketing who then, together with the government, have the legislative power. The Constitution also contains rules on how legislative and resolution proposals can be tabled, and this directly means that legislative proposals and resolutions can only be tabled by government ministers and members of the Folketing. As the comments on the motion for a resolution state, the proposed regime for an open ministry with direct motions for resolutions in the Folketing will have to respect the provisions of the constitution, and that is a good starting point, but it is a little difficult, I think, to see how it can actually be done in the real world. But even if we were to find a way to do that, I would like to maintain that we are a representative democracy. It is our responsibility that we are elected to represent the Danish people as well as possible. I also think it is important to say that there is ample scope for exerting its influence. It is my impression that, as far as the government and the parties of the Folketing are concerned, there is very, very easy and direct access to us. It may be more direct and easier than it has ever been before. It is so easy to write, it is so easy to give your opinion, and fortunately there are a lot of citizens who benefit from it and use it. Of course, my side must always be urged, both to be politically active, but also to do what one can to ensure that one's voice is heard, either individually or in conjunction with others. I know sir. Uffe Elbæk quite well for many years. We have also been colleagues in the government. I have no doubt for a second what drives the resolution here, namely a sincere interest in extending democracy and inviting more people into it. I would like to sign for the ideal, and I fully share it, but I am not going to support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114504	A brief comment from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114510	This is not a criticism of representative democracy. It is actually the very opposite, in other words, a desire to ensure the legitimacy of representative democracy in order to create a greater commitment to the people around what is going on in here and, at the very least, to discuss and develop politics out there. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice if the government recognises that we have a challenge in terms of confidence in us as elected politicians. As politicians, we are the lowest in the confidence polls, and there have never been fewer who have wanted to be a member of a political party. So the government recognises that we are facing a challenge in terms of strengthening democracy and thus also ensuring legitimacy for the decision-making forum that we are all members of in here, namely the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114611	I think I will put it in such a way that the only thing you cannot do with a democracy is take it for granted. Where democracy can only live in earnest is where we live, in other words, living democracy where it is genuinely anchored, where we use it not only individually but also jointly. That is why, of course, we must always be able to discuss with each other, which is why it is so welcome to have a discussion on how we develop our democracy and its scope. I believe that where consensus ends is on the question of who is responsible for that legitimacy, and I believe that we politicians are always responsible for this in interaction with both the media and the electorate, but the responsibility is our own, and I do not think a resolution can change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114701	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114702	I fully agree with the latter. The responsibility is ours in here. There is no contradiction there at all. This isn't a either-or, it's a boat-and seen from my chair. What is interesting is that this model comes from the EU system, the European Parliament, and that among other things. After all, the Minister for Justice's own party has supported the regime at EU level. So why is it that you support it at EU level, but you do not do it here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114733	I would be careful to highlight our EU institutions as the best example of population anchoring, transparency and democratic participation, because these are probably some of the challenges that we are still facing. I am an incarnate supporter of European cooperation, but I am above all politically, because I believe that it is not only beneficial to Denmark but is absolutely necessary for the coexistence that must be on our continents for our continued development, both politically, humanly, economically and socially. I think it is basically the case, in terms of democratic participation, anchoring and transparency, that care should be taken not to invent things in order to invent things. I believe that democracy is the strongest place where we solve the specific problems that are, with concrete, real political answers. I do not have so much tricks that we are trying to invent neither anchoring nor participation, because anchoring and participation originate from people more than from institutions or organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114839	Thank you, Minister. I can see that, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll accidentally deleted from the list of speakers. So if the Minister would kindly go back to the platform, she will get a question from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123114855	Sorry, it was the wire from the computer that hit the screen. It is just in relation to this that the Minister is standing up as a great defender of representative democracy. I do not think that anyone has a concrete proposal to abolish it. At least I have not heard that, at least not from any of those who sit in the Folketing. But the question is whether we can involve more or less, and there is no contradiction between the fact that we can involve the population more and then have a representative democracy. The logical consequence should then be that the Social Democrats are going to vote to abolish some of the provisions of the Constitution on referendums, in relation to what it is like today, because it apparently involves too much of the population. And are you not in favour of representative democracy if you are in favour of those articles of the Constitution? So, understand me correctly, I think that we are all in favour of representative democracy. This is, of course, an answer, as I see it, to the fact that confidence in the elected representatives has fallen sharply in these years in the studies that have been carried out, in fact, mostly since 2011 and onwards. And there this could be one of the answers. I do not understand why it is simply rejected as a contradiction to representative democracy, rather than going into more arguments about what you will do if you want to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115020	I would like to say several things to that question. After all, we have referendums in Denmark in connection with the surrender of sovereignty. It is constitutional, it is necessary that it is the right thing to do. This is not in any way contrary to having a representative democracy. But this is something else entirely. The proposal here is that if there are 50,000 Danes who wish to support a particular motion for a resolution, it should be tabled here. So, excuse me, we already have plenty of individual cases in Danish politics, and sometimes we are close to a tendency for us to legislate too much on the basis of individual cases. What is happening in political parties, what is happening in conciliation circles, what is happening in governments, is that we not only deal with a given issue on the basis of exactly the given question, but that we have the broad public interest in it. That's why any question in Danish politics, whether you're for or against this or that may be dangerous. Because of course there will be a difference between whether you look at the individual areas in isolation or whether you have the obligation to consider what the consequences are for the rest of society and what the other priorities are. Because it's never hard to say yes to anything or say no to anything. What is difficult is to deal with all political issues on the basis of a single whole, on the basis of a single priority and on the basis of an overall assessment of where Denmark should move. The proposal here does not stand up to this, and that is the difference between individual democracy and a more reflected democracy, in which decisions are taken not only on the basis of individual cases but on the basis of the whole of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115157	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115200	I am now not so sure that the average quality of the motions for resolutions would fall, because proposals could also be dealt with by 50 000 citizens, and not just something that a single member of parliament was behind. I'm not so sure. So, in relation to the Constitution, there are different forms of referendums from those to which the Minister refers. After all, it is also possible, with regard to a large number of subjects for one third of the members of the Folketing, to demand a referendum on an already adopted legislative proposal. There, in fact, even more direct influence is given to the electorate, because then it is the voters who say yes or no in a referendum where it is just possible for the citizens to have a proposal discussed. Then it is still up to the elected representatives whether they will vote yes or no. I do not think it is as simple as the Minister is trying to make it, namely a question of whether we are in favour of or against representative democracy, for or against the interests of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115258	I am just genuinely concerned about the tendency for individual cases to dictate what decisions are made in the Danish Parliament. Individual cases may be very relevant to seek answers to, but rarely can a decision on individual cases be taken independently of what happens in the rest of the world or in the rest of Denmark. Somehow this is too easy. It is too easy just to say 'yes' or 'no' to a given answer to a given challenge, without anyone being forced to deal with the basic priority, because in virtually every choice we make in here there will also be a priority. When you say yes to something, there is something else you have to say no to, and I don't think that will be reflected in this way of working. That is why I recommend that we who are here take responsibility. If there is a lack of confidence in us, it is our responsibility to provide the necessary confidence. This is not the case with motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115352	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, who speaks for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115402	The purpose of this motion for a resolution by Uffe Elbæk is to allow citizens to table direct motions for resolutions in the Folketing, provided that they are supported by at least 50,000 Danish citizens. It is always commendable when ideas and suggestions are put forward as to how citizens' commitment to the people's rule can be strengthened. It is particularly important in a democracy that we pay constant attention to how the people's rule can be kept alive and the individual citizen's commitment extended. A democracy must not be dulled by the fact that we are always doing as usual. A constant rethink is certainly something that the Left pays tribute to. But for the Left there need not be 50,000 Danes who want a proposal promoted before the Left as it already is today will take it up positively. We have a representative democracy, as the Minister also mentioned, and the Left is serious about the fact that we represent the people and the electorate. That is why we in the Left also have a very vivid member democracy, where proposals come forward, are debated and often promoted to practical and concrete politics in this Chamber. Just think of the many resolutions that the Left has been involved in presenting during this parliamentary term. In the Left we also make a great deal of continuous interaction with citizens, companies, associations, organizations and others. It is at meetings, events, activities, through the media, through new electronic media and much more. This gives us many ideas and suggestions which we also develop in policy and form into practical policy. It is all this that makes the Left a living liberal popular movement. That is why we in the Left do not believe that there is a need to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115559	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115602	Of course, in all the party groups of which we are members, there is a lively democratic debate, and good ideas come in to us as members of parliament every day from citizens who turn to us. So that's fine. But can it be done better? Can we imagine methods, a structure that strengthens the democratic debate and thus also confidence in us in the Folketing? That's what this proposal is about. After all, there are many different models around the world on how to involve citizens in political debates and processes. We see it in Switzerland, they have a completely different way of doing it. This proposal has also taken inspiration from Finland, we see it at EU level, and my question to the Left rapporteur is: do we in the Left recognise that we are in a situation where confidence in us as elected politicians has never been lower? Do we recognise that fewer and fewer people want to be members of a political party, so that we face a challenge in terms of the legitimacy of what we all actually want, namely strengthening representative democracy? Do you recognize it in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115714	No matter where you are in a society, there is always a need to do things better and to gain more confidence. This also applies to the Folketing and the members of the Folketing. We must, of course, work on this seriously and seriously. However, this proposal is very small in relation to the great process that we need there, because it is much more serious than just saying that 50,000 people can come and make a proposal. Fifty thousand people are a lot of people. That is also why I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech that a much, much smaller number need to come to the Left if they have some good arguments for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115756	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115759	This proposal is by no means the solution to the challenge we are facing, but it may be one of the steps that will make the citizen out there start to take a greater interest in politics and perhaps hopefully want to join one of the parties that exists today. I would like to ask the rapporteur: if the Left recognises that we have a trust gap between citizens and us as politicians, what is the answer to that challenge? Because it is no good for the trust gap to grow and for there to be fewer and fewer people wanting to be part of the parties that exist today, for example. What's the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115843	Well, that is what we all have to work on all the time: how we can do some things that make confidence grow, because of course it has to be greater. But one thing on which it is very important to measure it is, after all, participation in parliamentary elections. After all, there is a huge turnout in the election in Denmark. This means that we have the support of the people here in the Folketing. There are many parties to choose from, so you are unhappy with one party, you can choose another. It seems that in the next elections there are two more parties on the ballot paper, so there are enough opportunities to ensure that the Folketing is in line with the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115928	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123115938	Thank you. I will not repeat the speeches made by the Minister of Justice about representative democracy, or that, Mr President. Flemming Damgaard Larsen has just said about the motion for a resolution. I would almost like to say that I might as well start by answering what I might be asked about, namely the crisis of confidence between the people and politicians, and then say that, of course, we must do something about that crisis of confidence. I just do not think the resolution here is the answer. I believe that we need to address this crisis of confidence with ourselves, to address it with the citizens. Then I'll put a little more figures on it, as Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen was saying that in the last parliamentary elections we had a record voting percentage of 87 per cent. And if we're gonna increase confidence, we're gonna have to go out and do some of those 87 percent. a little more interested in being a member of the various parties. After all, membership will have a greater impact, not only on the policy we are talking about, but also on which people are elected as candidates. It is, of course, through the political parties that we have an opportunity to put up some candidates, and then it is the electorate who later takes the lead among us candidates and chooses. But inside a party movement there should be battle elections between the candidates, so there is also a sorting. Indeed, the loss that we, as political parties, have suffered on the member side is very serious. Some years ago it was in the spring of 2013 that Politiken had an inventory of the membership figures in the parties. And from that statement it appears that in 1960 there were about 600,000 members in the Danish political parties. When you count how many members we parties had in 2011, then it is less than 151,000. So we have had a membership staff in the political parties of 75%. I think this is serious, but we are not going to solve it by adopting a resolution that the castles should have direct access to the policy pursued in the legislative assembly. For who will control the 50,000? Are they the ones who can afford a lobbyist company or who wants it? I think that, as politicians, we should take responsibility for the crisis of confidence that exists, go out and meet the voters in a different way than we do, potential Members, inform us about our democracy and then change the fact that just a few years ago we represented one in ten adults by being members of the parties, that we are now below one in three adults. So we have an information work, I very much agree with the authors of the motion, I just do not agree with how the task is done. So we don't believe this solves what we really think it can help to worsen it. So this is a strong call for when the population is running at 87 per cent. in the parliamentary elections, it should be a little more than one third running and spending their spare time improving politics from within by being a member of a political party. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120246	Sir. Uffe Elbæk for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120249	I am, of course, pleased that the rapporteur recognises that we have a challenge in terms of dialogue with and confidence in citizens. What puzzles me is that this is so consistently rejected, which is one of hopefully many good measures to strengthen the commitment of citizens and the desire to enter into political debate and political idea development. Finland has a similar model and they have good experience with it. People discuss it, people make suggestions and send them in. Well, this proposal is not something that has been taken down from the sky. You actually have similar examples elsewhere you see it in Switzerland, you see it in the United States where you try to find more engaging methods to hear what the hell people think out there and bring the experiences and the discussions into representative democratic spaces like what we find ourselves in. Are we denying that there may be other ways in which that dialogue can become more active than the method we have today and the model we have today? Is it denied by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120405	That is not what I rejected, I rejected the motion for a resolution. For just the fact that 50,000 signatures are coming in does not increase the dialogue between us and the electorate or the people in general. If we are to increase the dialogue, we must also look each other in the eye, meet live and discuss things. Having a written proposal with some signatures does not necessarily increase the dialogue; it simply increases the opportunity to discuss more proposals in here. I think we're going out in the field. I am not saying that we should have popular meetings on Bornholm all over the place. I think that in our own parties we have a very great responsibility to get out and have time to do so. And that is also why we must address the fact that we cannot be in here seven days a week, because then we will not meet the people either. There is, in fact, a good reason why our Monday is non-meeting; it is precisely to come out and meet people. I myself am one of those who spend almost every weekend meeting voters to some extent. I'm out in a lot of schools, out in a lot of places of education. And it would be fine if jobs would start inviting the political parties again to the canteen meetings so that we can meet the people in more ways than we do today. Because the population does not necessarily use their leisure time, so we have to find some other places to meet each other. And I've looked up a lot of politicians to the upcoming election campaign announcing listening meetings. Many people, of course, make a virtue of saying that we politicians have one mouth and two ears, and therefore it is very good to meet the voters, when we have to listen to them a little more. So I think that some of the things that are going on are going the right way, but I just do not think that the resolution is the best way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120546	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120547	Well, there is something that I do not understand at all in the argument, because the rapporteur is just saying that we need to listen more to the voters, but this proposal is precisely an attempt to listen more to the citizens who are out there and to take their discussions and concerns more seriously. We saw in the sale of shares in DONG that there was a huge involvement in the population. There was a petition of up to 200,000 signatures, I think it was, and there is a frustration that that interest and commitment did not get in here sufficiently. So how can the rapporteur, on the one hand, stand and say that we should be better at listening to the citizens and, on the other hand, completely consistent in saying that this proposal is not linked? So, I think it is the rapporteur's logic that is not linked in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120639	In fact, I think that what is now outlined here would be incredibly dangerous. Should the citizens have an ongoing right of veto over whom a government should enter into a trade? Well, it's usually the case that if it's in a municipality, you don't even want a deal, a purchase agreement, at an open meeting before you finish it. And we don't have it here until it's done. When I say that I do not see this resolution as an increased dialogue, it is because it may be a petition and then a final proposal that is just on our table and then we will have to deal with it. I'd rather get out of here, just like Mr. Kim. Flemming Damgaard Larsen said so and have a dialogue with the citizens. And, of course, as a responsible party, we lift up the ideas that we think are good from a social democratic point of view. And if you do not like what the Social Democratic Party is, there are many more people who can join our party and then help to develop the party. That is the kind of dialogue I want. I would like to raise the political dialogue in Denmark, but I do not necessarily want it alongside the parties I would like it in the frame of reference we are familiar with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120749	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123120807	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Karen J. Klint, who talks about 75%. I can reassure you that this is not a problem we know in the Danish People's Party. I think it has something to do with the policy pursued, maybe. That's said for your own account. This proposal allows citizens to ask the Danish Parliament to deal with a subject or a case which has collected a number of signatures for this case 50,000, either by means of an electronic petition, or by means of a regular petition, and you can also combine the two things. It doesn't really matter. The possibility of these citizens' motion for a resolution is already known today in Finland, where seven to eight proposals have been implemented by the citizens, and one of them has even been adopted. The idea of citizen-driven resolutions is entirely in line with the position of the Danish People's Party on more close democracy and citizen involvement, yes, with the whole idea of spreading Christiansborg and the Folketing a little more to the citizens, so that the distance between the citizens and the politicians feels shorter outside Christiansborg's thick walls. We are very much in favour of this. In this context, I cannot help mentioning the possibility of further referenda in Denmark, which is, of course, in line with this proposal. It is well known that this is a matter for the Danish People's Party. This is something already known in Switzerland. There will also be more citizen involvement here. Then I could not help noticing the ping pong between the Minister and the proposer that in the European Union it is even more difficult to involve citizens because of the distance, I think it was. I fully agree with that. That's not the way to go. I have another suggestion. It is that instead of being able to encourage the 98 municipalities and the five existing regions to use this idea: you could allow a number of citizens depending on the size of the municipality or region to collect a number of signatures and then locally force politicians to take up a case. I think that would be very relevant. I am also thinking of the fact that local authorities and regional councils could be forced to vote on a number of cases on a local basis. It will also lead to much more citizen involvement. I think that's it. Finally, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121052	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121111	The motion for a resolution we are now considering here is, it might be said, a very well-intentioned attempt to get citizens more involved in politics between the elections. There is also very good reason to stop and say that democracy, as it is, should not be taken for granted, that is to say that it is just static and it works. If you look into the world, you can see that democracy has many forms. I have to say there, if you compare it with other countries where we in Denmark have established ourselves with representative democracy, while in some of the other countries it is a little more concerned with direct democracy, that it is my and the Radical Left's clear conviction that nothing is more democratic because it is direct democracy, perhaps quite the contrary. However, the challenge of there being a great deal of distance between politicians and citizens, at least between some citizens and politicians, seems to me to be a clear one and to do something more about it. Other rapporteurs have mentioned the system we have with which the parties are putting up candidates and the parties, at least for some, are becoming smaller and smaller. It is, of course, a challenge in itself if you think that the debate should primarily take place within the party itself. But it is also the case that there has never been more direct access to politicians than today. If you look at our mailboxes, I am quite sure you will see that no one has ever received as many e-mails as the 179 members of parliament now do. This means, in fact, that sometimes you simply drown in it and that you cannot see the forest for just trees. It may be difficult to take a proposal made by an individual fully seriously, and in this way this proposal may seem sympathetic, i.e. that 50,000 people should come together to agree to present something. However, I believe very much in representative democracy, and I also believe very much that it is not exactly this proposal that will strengthen confidence between citizens and politicians. Because we must, it can be said, let each of us both inspire, persuade and convince citizens who are concerned about a matter, and if we are enough to be convinced by these citizens, they do not have to be 50,000, then they can be much fewer. It happens every day that on Facebook and in other social media there are cases that citizens take up and where there are suddenly many people discussing the same matter. It is just not the same as having a public debate, because it is very often special environments or special debate forums. I think we should be very careful not to take democracy for granted, in other words to understand that confidence in politicians is something we must fight for every day, not only on election day, but that it must be done in other ways. We have had a tradition in the past, for example. to make more people's hearings, where you can also discuss the same thing in several parts of the country and in dialogue, and that was perhaps another suggestion and something to look at. However, on the part of the Radical Left, we do not believe that this resolution is what will strengthen dialogue and commitment. For that would once again be an isolated thing that does not fundamentally change the debate we are having with our constituents, and therefore we cannot support the proposal. I am well aware that the intention is good, as my former radical colleague has certainly put it for good purpose, but on the part of the Radical Left we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121600	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121604	I think it is important to stress that this proposal is not an expression of direct democracy. It is the case that if it is adopted and you get 50,000 citizens' support for a resolution, it is still in here that we decide whether we think it is a good idea or not. This is about helping to motivate citizens out there to take responsibility for their society and mean something about it. I also believe that the rapporteur on the Radical Left can imagine the motivation that will be in it: when a motion for a resolution is drafted out there and we in here actually, if it can otherwise have enough support, will relate to it, it will be something that strengthens democratic commitment. Just the fact that people are organizing, the fact that people are beginning to formulate themselves on how we can make this society better seen from where they are now experiencing the problems, everything else must equally help to strengthen democratic culture in Denmark. So I cannot quite understand why radicals are so totally opposed to going in and saying: 'Well, could there be something useful in this approach?'
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121718	On the radical side, we are, in fact, very concerned about having a dialogue with voters, with citizens, with people, and that is why it is not a bad example of how we could be influenced. But we just do not recognise this as the answer, because if we have a resolution tabled by citizens outside, who really is going to defend it in here? We have a representative democracy where, in fact, you do not need 50,000 signatures to get a politician to speak, and for a party to choose to take something up. Nor do I think it is to compare it with the right of initiative that exists in the European Union. There is another, what to say, setup, and there is the whole challenge that we do not have a common public because we are many countries. But in any case, I would like to say that the development of our democracy is, in this way, an important matter for us to stick to further development, but in this case I think we should go further and develop it further through a constitutional review. It's an eternally radical matter, but not a single matter like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121849	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121850	Now I hear what the government has of opinions. What I was really just curious to hear was what the Radicals think. Now I am talking to the radical rapporteur and, as I know the radical party, from within too, one is deeply concerned about how to strengthen the commitment of citizens and how to ensure that they feel involved, heard and taken seriously. So that's what this proposal is all about. That's one bid to do it. I think it is also interesting that the Radical Left clearly rejects in advance the experience that has been seen in Finland. The Radical Left has even been positive about a similar model in the European Union. So I can only interpret it as if radically backing up some of the positions expressed in the past, at least, when these issues have been discussed in other forums.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123121947	I don't think we do. I am very concerned, and it is the whole radical group, that we have ways of discussing and being in close contact with the electorate, including between the elections. But we are also very concerned that representative democracy is actually the way we would like each of us to answer for the work that is being done. That is why we do not think that this proposal is the right one and the right one to respond to the challenge outlined by the authors of the motion for a resolution, namely that we would like to see greater participation in democracy, and that we would also like to see greater trust between citizens and politicians. This proposal is not the answer to that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122040	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122048	Thank you. Engagement and active citizens are important for democracy, and I also think it is important that we keep thinking at the same time about how we can strengthen it. Sir. Uffe Elbæk is to be commended for presenting this motion for a resolution. Often, the debates in Parliament are lost in very short-term problems, and we should not be able to see that, but at the same time we think it is important to take a look at and discuss the visions which should also be part of the political debate. The motion on the motion for a resolution by Mr Citizen is certainly worth discussing. The possibility exists elsewhere; in the European Union we got it with the Treaty of Lisbon, so that 1 million citizens can instruct the Commission to submit proposals to the Council, and the proposer himself mentions Finland as an example. At a time when it is claimed that the distance between politicians and voters is increasing, it is worth looking at whether we can do something about it, and the possibility of introducing citizen-driven resolutions must therefore, in our view, be discussed seriously. We do not want to be determined whether it should be carried out in exactly the form Mr. Uffe Elbæk is proposing, but we are actually hoping for a committee procedure where there will be an opportunity to dig deeper into distributions and disadvantages. We will, for example: We would like to have a hearing and involve experts; we would like to try to move on with this and unfold and develop it. So we are in favour of the work of the committee. We think this is a fine proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122220	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122222	Of course, I would like to say thank you for that straight away. In the same vein, I would also like to stress that this is, of course, the bid that I have arrived at, but I am completely open to the fact that there may be a need for adjustments to it. So I also hope for a good debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122252	I think this is a very good initiative, and we look forward to it and look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122256	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122259	I would like to begin by giving Enhedslisten's support to this motion for a resolution and commending the initiative and thanking somebody who is actively trying to increase democratic participation in our society and who is addressing this issue as a political issue. I think that is positive and I think that is very good. It is a purpose that we want to follow in the Enhedslisten, and it is something that I think is needed. I would like to start by saying that a democracy is precisely about participation and about real opportunities for participation. It's not just being able to cross every four years. There are plenty of countries in the world where people can sometimes put a cross for some people, but there is certainly no question of democracy anyway. I think that the Minister himself just used the term to live out democracy, and I think that is very precisely said, and that is actually a little contrary to the Minister's opposition to the motion for a resolution. Indeed, I believe that it is about being able to participate and setting a framework for participation, which is much, much more than one intersection every four years, because it is about the intersection being a qualified cross. Over the last few years, we have seen a few examples of the fact that at least large groups of the population have engaged very actively in some political issues and have been very angry with the majority of the Folketing. We saw it with the Public Act. I think there were a number of people here who thought that it was probably too technical for anyone to care about it. But there were actually really, very many people who cared about it, and it ended up with over 90,000 signatures on some random website that a couple of random citizens created. But that attitude was thrown away, you might say. The same thing happened when a majority, so to speak, wanted to sell out of the heirloom and sell DONG's energy company to Goldman Sachs. 200,000 people signed and opposed it, and yet it was ignored. This is also about theories and talk about what democracy is, but it is also about some people in our country who deserve to be heard and taken seriously. I do not think that this will lead to individual debate, which some have objected to; that one simply will stop discussing politics overall, but will focus only on individual cases. We see elsewhere in the world that it can actually work. Several states in the United States even have the opportunity to collect signatures which mean that something can come to a referendum. And there it is not that everything has fallen apart for that reason. One might then argue that this would be an circumvention of representative democracy. But this proposal is only about an opportunity to get something under consideration. It is not even an opportunity to demand a referendum or anything else. It is not direct democracy, but it is an opportunity to speak out in representative democracy, I believe, and the Enhedslisten. The short of the long one is that Enhedslisten supports the proposal. We would very much like to enter into a dialogue in committee with other parties on whether to do so in other and better ways, gain experience from other countries, perhaps hold consultations. We think that sounds really, very positive, if nothing else, we have started a dialogue on how we can expand our democracy. This could be an opportunity. We are, of course, open to other ways in which the Danish Parliament can help to increase participation in Danish society. I have to say to the point of relying on parties and measuring how many of them were members of a party before, that I do not think it works that way anymore. We are in a far too changing world, we have access to so many wonderful information on the Internet and everything else. We must, of course, have parties, but I also believe that we must realise that democracy exists in many other places, and so must.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122750	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123122802	Finland is not a representative democracy. This may come as a big news for most people, especially the Finnish people, but it is nevertheless the conclusions when you hear the Minister for Justice's speech, the speech by the rapporteur of the Left and the speech by the Socialist rapporteur. Because, according to the three speakers, there is a contradiction between being a representative democracy and having citizens' initiatives in relation to the people asking for a proposal to be dealt with in Parliament. However, Finland, which is certainly a very proud representative democracy, has in fact had it incorporated in its constitution that citizens can collect signatures and have proposals dealt with in parliament. So should we not be honest with each other and admit that this is not a proposal about whether Denmark should be a representative democracy or not? This is a proposal about whether we should involve citizens more in the political process. During the period 1994-2011, between 54 and 70 per cent had. of the Danes confidence in the politicians. In 2014, a new study was carried out which showed that the figure is now down to 36%, i.e. for the first time below 50%. for the many years you've studied that relationship. In fact, it was 61.5 percent who said they didn't trust us in here. There can be many reasons for this. There are some who believe that this is the raw political debate; others believe that it is the many promises made by the current government. Some think it is due to a general tendency that it may be harder to keep up, because, as Mrs Pernille Skipper put it, there are many things to deal with and to changeable debates all the time. It can also be a challenge. Perhaps this is all too much due to the fact that the relationship and the problem are mutual: that politicians do not trust the people either. It seems to me that some of the discussion we are having today is rather too much, namely that some people do not have confidence that the people could make some good suggestions about what we are going to be dealing with here; that they are afraid that it will be even bad proposals that will lead to more individual policy. I believe that this will increase the average quality of the motions for resolutions. I think that we are much more inclined in here to table just one motion for a resolution on one or the other; no party mentioned, no party forgotten. I am not going to make myself or my party better than others, but I do believe that in here we are much more influential by the fact that now we have to bring forward a case than 50,000 Danes would be. I've told Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk, also before I came up here on the platform, that we in the Liberal Alliance are positive about the idea of citizens' initiatives. Whether it should be 50,000 Danes, whether it should be with NemID, we are not so sure. Moreover, it is remarkable that with the rules that we ourselves have adopted in the Folketing, it would be as difficult to get a resolution in here if it were to be adopted here once and for all, as it would be in the future to have a political party set up. So at least we should try to deal with each other. I also believe that there is another point that has helped to weaken confidence in the politicians, and that is that since then, when the parliamentary elections in September 1987 saw that there were as many as 16 parties standing, there have been many knots on themselves in here and there has been every effort to make it more difficult to get competition from other parties. In Denmark, we have the positive thing that there is a low threshold, so that new flows can be quickly represented. This is positive, but we have been working together for too many years here to prevent new trends from meeting the voters on the ballot. Fortunately, we have changed that, and it will also apply, not for the first time, it was too violent for the majority at Christiansborg, but for the subsequent elections, which have made it easier for new forces to compete with the seated ones. I'd like to thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk to make the proposal here. We are very much in favour of contributing to a kind of report in committee where we could perhaps get to work on how we can involve the people more closely in the political process and break down the confidence barrier that has arisen between people and politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123123345	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the author of the motion, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123123401	First of all, thank you for the debate that has taken place in this Chamber this morning on how to strengthen democracy. Of course, I am sorry that the big old parties cannot look at it and actually see it as a threat to representative democracy, when the whole proposal is actually intended to strengthen representative democracy. The idea and the proposal are the result of a deep, deep concern about the trust gap between the citizens and us as elected politicians; we are as one of the lowest industries on the confidence scale, surpassed only by used car dealers and journalists, so it is a very good company that we are messing around in. That says a lot in itself. But what is also the problem is that fewer and fewer people want to become members of a political party, so that the basis for getting people into elected positions is becoming more and more slender. That's why I looked out into the world to see how the hell you do it elsewhere and whether there are other ways to do it. Among other things, I have found this model from Finland, which is similar in many ways to the same population size, about the same culture, about the same way to understand society. And that is why I have taken the initiative on this motion for a resolution on citizens' rights. What I also think is important to emphasise is that this is my view of it. That is why I am also pleased that both the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance say: let us discuss it in committee, possibly at a hearing. I really look forward to it. I am also pleased that the support that has been provided comes from both sides of the Assembly Hall, i.e. from the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance on the one hand and the SF and the Enhedslisten on the other. Of course I'm really, really sorry that we haven't gotten the old parties into it and that they can't see the idea. However, I would just like to end by thanking you for the debate. I simply believe that if we do not solve the problem of the trust gap and do not make citizens want to be actively involved in politics, then it is in fact the representative democracy that is threatened as a democratic model. That's the challenge. So all good proposals, not least what I am proposing here, I hope I can be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123123638	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123123717	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 27 January. Mr President, first of all I give the floor. Steen Gade as rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123123733	Thank you. 2015 will be a year of climate change.You can say it's the climate year.It's on the basis of the fact that we got the fifth report from the International Climate Panel. It was alarming, we all know that. Things look worse and more needs to be done. However, it also says that there are certain things we can do. So it is not the case that everything is abandoned; we can actually act. Then we had the meeting in Peru here in December. This showed that there is more to be done, and that means that we are on a rather uncertain ground. I therefore believe that we should try to address how we can better prepare ourselves, how we can take initiatives that facilitate a decision in Paris. I could be tempted to say that Paris is the last call, but now I have been in politics for so long that the last call is never to be made. But we are at the point where the risk that a global agreement will not be reached and the whole thing will end up in bilateral agreements is actually imminent if Paris does not succeed. That is why I think we should have the debate. I also hope for a broad vote, and when I emphasize it, there are several reasons for it, but one of the most important ones is that it will give a minister in an election year who it might be a clear security in relation to what the main line is and what it is we should be going for in this country. And since I think it has to be above all other things, that's what I care about. One final comment on the wording of the whole question must be that what I want to emphasise in the debate is the debate on Paris and not the things we do in Denmark. So it is a vote that will affect the negotiations with Paris in December this year, which I hope we can get out of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123124031	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building has the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123124050	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the authors of the question, that is Steen Gade, Jonas Dahl and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. It is the question of how the government follows up on the UN Climate Panel's fifth main report in relation to Denmark's negotiating line towards COP 21 in December. Like the SF, the government takes the warnings in the report very seriously. We agree that the IPCC report must provide a scientific basis for global efforts to prevent serious climate change. Denmark's high national level of ambition, our ambitious approach to climate negotiations are already reflected in the recommendations of the IPCC. In the UN climate negotiations, Denmark gives particular priority to the reduction effort and climate finance, which are crucial for the global transition to low-mission and the ability to comply with the 2-degree objective. The government agrees with SF on the importance of alliance building, and the government therefore prioritises this towards COP 21 in Paris. The government is working for an ambitious and global climate agreement in Paris with reduction contributions from all parties and especially from the major emitters. At the same time, the government has worked actively to ensure that the EU continues to take the lead in ambitious objectives. In October, a new EU reduction target for 2030 of at least 40% was adopted. in relation to 1990, and since then both the United States and China have announced new climate targets. We hope that will lead others to follow suit. The countries must show leadership and take the lead, but the developing countries must also contribute if we are to solve the climate challenges, and we must, of course, do so. This is particularly true of the major emerging economies such as China and India and Brazil. A new Kyoto Protocol covering less than 15%. of global emissions is not the solution. As the UN Panel on Climate Change underlines, we also need to increase the global level of ambition before At COP 20 in Lima Denmark played an important role in ensuring a solid decision to increase the level of ambition before 2020. An increased reduction effort before 2020 is a major Danish priority and will continue to be this towards Paris. Climate financing for developing countries is essential for an agreement in Paris and to ensure the conversion of developing countries, and therefore climate finance is also a Danish priority. This applies to the mobilisation of private climate finance, because public climate finance is not enough. For 2020, the developed countries have committed themselves to mobilising USD 100 billion in climate finance per year.A process has also been established in which the developed countries have to report on their strategy to scale up climate finance by 2020. However, it is probably not realistic to have new quantitative sub-targets for climate finance before 2020. COP 20 in Lima clearly showed that there was no support for it. However, in the autumn of 2014, more than USD 10 billion have been given to the Green Climate Fund, and that is more than we had hoped for. This is an important signal that the developing countries are sticking to their commitments. Since 2010, Denmark has contributed more than 2 billion. kr. in public climate finance. In September the Prime Minister announced a Danish contribution of 400 million. kr. to the Green Climate Fund. At the same time, we are working intently to mobilise private climate investments. This is essential in order to ensure the green transition. In 2014, the Government launched the Climate Investment Fund. The fund is expected to mobilise 8-9 billion. kr. in climate investment to developing countries within 4-6 years. Denmark has also launched an insurance instrument to promote energy efficiency in industry and in buildings in developing countries. The efforts in the negotiations are supported by Denmark's bilateral cooperation with a number of emerging economies. We share our experiences. We do that with China, with South Africa, with Vietnam and with Mexico. In this way, we will help these countries to develop and implement an ambitious energy and climate policy. It benefits the climate, it benefits Danish business, and in the long term it can help increase the level of ambition in the global climate agreement. Denmark also supports climate adjustment efforts in developing countries. We do this with funds from the climate pool, where we support concrete climate adjustment projects in some of the most affected countries. It is Bangladesh, it is Kenya, it is Mozambique. We are also doing this through our contribution to the Green Climate Fund, where, of course, half of the funds are aimed at climate adjustment. At the same time, climate adaptation is one of the cross-cutting considerations in the general Danish development aid. The government fully agrees with the importance of alliances, it is a major Danish priority. Firstly, we are working together with other ambitious Member States within the European Union to move the European Union in the right direction. The EU's 2030 target is a good example of this. Secondly, we are working to strengthen and form alliances with progressive developing countries. Denmark participates in the so-called Cartagena dialogue; it is 40 progressive in- and developing countries that are working for an ambitious global climate agreement. In the Cartagena dialogue, Denmark leads e.g. working to increase global reduction efforts before 2020 in close cooperation with the small island states. At the same time, we are talking bilaterally with all the leading developing countries with which we can get in touch. At COP 20 I met, among other things. with colleagues from Vietnam, from Ethiopia, from Gambia, from South Africa, from Bangladesh, but at COP 20 we also saw that the group of developing countries, G 77, had difficulty in finding a common voice. Some developing countries want to maintain the sharp division between countries from 1992 onwards, while others are open to more contemporary dialogue. It stresses the importance of close dialogue with the progressive developing countries towards COP 21. Unfortunately, COP 20 also revealed that the African group is less constructive than we have seen before. Denmark and the other Nordic countries will therefore focus in particular on the dialogue with the African countries in 2015. We will also continue our cooperation with the small island states and the progressive Latin American countries. Government is therefore planning to continue its active and ambitious climate diplomacy efforts in 2015. I would also like to mention that on Monday the Foreign Ministers of the European Union adopted an action plan to strengthen the European Union's diplomatic action in the area of climate change; climate must be systematically thought into in the dialogue of the Common Foreign Service with leading actors. This is a clear indication that the EU's climate action is prioritized towards COP 21 across ministerial areas. Denmark also leads by the power of the example, by showing that ambitious climate action can go hand in hand with economic growth. Since 1990, our economy has grown by 40%, while emissions have fallen by more than 20%. There is great respect for Denmark's ambitious climate and energy policy. At COP 20 in Lima it was announced that for the third consecutive year Denmark is at the top of Climate Change Performance Index, which measures all the world's climate policy. One of the areas where Denmark can play an important role is in international shipping. At COP 20 we, in cooperation with the Danish Shipowners' Association, held a side event on green shipping, which showed that Danish shipowners strengthen their competitiveness simply by saving energy. At the same time, the government is working within the EU and at the UN for an ambitious approach to addressing emissions from shipping and aviation. Denmark has also made a great effort to help developing countries in particular to eliminate fossil subsidies, among others. with support from the climate pool. This is an important contribution to promoting green conversion. The fall in oil prices that we are currently experiencing can help to open up further reforms, although this is an area that requires political balance. SF asks about the efforts to achieve our national goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. in 2020 compared to 1990. The latest projection from the Danish Energy Agency shows that there is a reduction in the area of approx. 2 million t CO2 There is therefore a basis for launching new climate action. The budget bill for 2015 provides for EUR 100 million. kr. Annually in 2015, 2016 and 2017 for climate action. The 148 million. kr. has already been implemented, and it is primarily for a heat package that reduces CO 2 DKK. is set aside as a pool to be translated into cooperation between the Government and SF and Enhedslisten. The parties shall then meet at the beginning of this year with a view to an agreement on the specific execution. Then there are some who would say that it is not enough to achieve the objective. No, maybe not, but the government's climate policy is based on constantly adapting to needs and opportunities and thinking about climate policy in the other sectoral policy in a sensible and appropriate way. It has always been the idea behind the 2013 climate plan that climate action must be dynamic. This dynamic will also be supported with the Climate Council, which will provide advice and recommendations on Danish climate policy annually. I certainly expect them to help shape the Danish climate effort in the years to come. In 2015, international climate negotiations are entering the crucial phase of a new global climate agreement at COP 21 in Paris. The European Union is strong. We have ambitious 2030 targets, we have significant contributions to the Green Climate Fund. So does Denmark. We stand strongly with our ambitious national efforts, our comprehensive international climate assistance. We have a solid basis for active climate diplomacy with the participation of all relevant ministries. Denmark also has a constructive dialogue with the major emerging economies and the smaller, often more vulnerable developing countries, which can be strategically important alliance partners in the UN climate negotiations. All of this will be exploited, and we will make full use of it over the next 11 months in our work to achieve a global climate agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123125000	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr President. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123125014	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. I would like to say that I basically agree with what the Minister has said and I would like to emphasise certain points and also give the angles we have from the SF to the broad lines that have been presented here. May I say first that if you look at the experience of the Peru meeting a few months ago, it is my view that the European Union was very well prepared in many ways, but the European Union was not well prepared to make the alliance with developing countries, especially Africa. The European Union was not well enough prepared to take up the discussion on funding. This is linked to the developing countries. The European Union was not well enough prepared to take up the debate on climate change adaptation, that it is also important. These are areas where I think there is something to be done for a Danish government, and I noticed that the Minister was on all the topics here. I think it is absolutely essential that this should be the case. The fact is that it is simple and, of course, both complex and difficult to do in practice, but it has been the case in all these negotiations that the rich countries had to deliver the major reductions because that is where the major reductions were, but they also had to provide the economy and aid for economic development on a sound, sustainable basis in developing countries. And that is the concept that must also apply in a resolution in Paris. To a certain extent, I felt that was hung and flaunted a little too much in the meeting we have behind us. No more about it, because it just means that we have to be more focused, including on the points in the year we are in. The Minister said many real things, which I am very glad he said, about climate diplomacy. Also praised for the fact that a decision has been taken at EU level and at Foreign Minister level. I am very pleased with that. I would like to say to the Minister that my request is that all ministers in this country who are out to talk to someone abroad, and fortunately they often raise this discussion. In any case, it is important that the Prime Minister is also in place on this point. The Alliance building with the most progressive developing countries is crucial and important. Fortunately, we have built this up in recent years, and we also have it in the Danish Parliament's Climate and Energy Committee. We have also played along there and had contacts with our colleagues in some of those countries, and we must continue to do so. The objective is, of course, an ambitious global and binding agreement. It is important that we have funding where we live up to what was promised in Copenhagen about 100 billion. US dollars a year from 2020, but you have to understand that the developing countries are saying: yes, it is fine that you total 10 billion. Dollars in the Green Fund. It's fine, but now it's 2015 and it's 5 more years. What is it really like for the rich countries to reach 100 billion? dollars a year? I think we will have to address that to the December meeting as well. Climate adaptation is, of course, where the developing countries feel this right in the solar plexus. It is the developing countries that are the most vulnerable, the developing countries that have the least means to deal with it, and that is why I think it is crucial that we are also quite clear that climate adjustment must play a significant role. And, of course, it is important that we get the big emitters seen as big emitters, not just the rich countries, but also China, India, and that everyone in this way is committed to something happening. It is the new thing that everyone has to make a commitment, but of course they have to make different commitments. I would like to say that the main emitters are China and the United States. China is the largest, and that means that it is also absolutely crucial to get China in place, because we simply cannot solve the climate problems if we fail to do so. In conclusion, I would like to conclude my reply by (on behalf of V, S, RV, SF, EL and KF) putting forward a proposal for adoption which meets what I spoke about in my motivation, namely that we will have a broad majority. It reads as follows: Suggested adoption The Parliament recognises the seriousness of the fifth IPCC report. The Government is encouraged to continue efforts at COP21 to achieve a fair and ambitious global climate agreement with early and ambitious reduction efforts from the major emitters in particular, including continued encouragement and technical assistance for the conversion of energy systems in these countries, and to ensure that Denmark meets its share of the existing collective objective of mobilising the developed countries 100 billion. USD annually from 2020 and work for a global long-term reduction target. In 2015, the Government is encouraged to strengthen the alliance building with progressive developing countries through climate diplomacy and to promote a global agreement in which all countries are covered and, in particular, the developing countries and the most developed developing countries are taking on ambitious and binding reduction targets, climate adjustment is included, there is an ongoing review of the level of ambition in line with new knowledge and technology and aviation and shipping, and efforts to eliminate subsidies on fossil energy sources are reinforced. V 16).
ParlaMint-DK_20150123125717	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. The proposal for adoption read out will be put to the vote on Tuesday. We shall now turn to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123125740	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for raising this question debate. Obviously, this is an important issue, especially in the light of the UN Panel's fifth main report, which states that the world is facing massive climate and energy challenges. We in the Left agree that we must work hard to achieve the best solutions to these challenges and we are ambitious. We will find the best solutions to climate problems, which is why we also concluded an energy agreement in 2012 with the government, the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party, which reduces Denmark's CO2 by 2020. This is a major step in the right direction. That is why we also welcome the European Union's climate agreement, which, with the goal of a CO2 by 2030, significantly lifts the bar ahead of the Paris Global Climate Summit. That is another step in the right direction. In relation to Denmark's negotiating line at COP 21 in Paris, the Left's clear position is that we in Denmark cannot and must not go solo. Now it is the case that the European Committee of the Regions establishes Denmark's negotiating mandate for the internal negotiations within the European Union and that the EU then negotiates on Denmark's behalf in the international climate negotiations at UN level. That is why it is important for the European Union to be as strong as possible at the forthcoming COP 21 so that we can have as ambitious a climate agreement as possible. Seen in a global light it doesn't help big with a lower CO2 Left line is therefore clear. We must work to strengthen the European Union's voice in the forthcoming climate negotiations, which is also reflected in the proposal for adoption supported by the Left. However, before we lose ourselves completely in the discussion on how Denmark and the European Union can do more for the world's climate, as this question debate calls for, I think we should get it right by stopping and finding that we are doing very well in Denmark. We are already at the forefront when it comes to doing the most for the climate. We are one of the OECD countries with the most climate-friendly production, and with the very ambitious climate agreement of 2012, Denmark is well on its way to achieving the EU's 2030 targets by 2020, ten years before the countries around us. So we are the doll in the doll class when it comes to doing the most for the climate. However, for the government, SF and Enhedslisten, it is not enough to be a climate fool. It is believed that Denmark should tighten the screw one more tooth, and it is here that we in the Left are shouting guard in the gun, because if we tighten the screw too much, it will hit the Danish economy like a boomerang. When the government, SF and Enhedslisten opt out of equal competition for Danish companies, it damages everything else just our ability to compete. It will make it much more expensive to run Danish business, and it will ultimately cost welfare. And what about the climate? Denmark is not an isolated island, and new burdens and demands risk moving climate-friendly production and jobs from Denmark to countries with polluting production, and then global emissions will rise. We are at the forefront of the field in relation to the rest of the European Union, but we should not be too far ahead of them to lose sight of us completely. There must be a balance between the objective and the cost of competitiveness, and we must avoid imposing more and heavier burdens on Danish companies at a faster pace than the countries with which we compete. So the fact that the government's vision of the climate area is somewhat unclear does not make things any better. The Minister for Energy's vision is one offshore wind turbine set up every week throughout the year for 30 years, and the Minister will also ban coal in already 10 years, while the Socialists will not settle on it yet. That is why there is a great deal of confusion as to whether the government has the same vision for energy. In addition, there is the question of whether the huge bill that comes to the Danes is part of that vision. Finally, I would like to congratulate the government on taking responsibility for the growth package last year, when the government finally agreed with the Left to have some of the world's highest energy taxes reduced, thereby bringing more green realism into the energy policy by reopening the energy conciliation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some questions. The first is from sir. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130240	I still think it might be a bit exciting that in a discussion of the United Nations Climate Report, the main contribution of the Left is to stress that now Denmark must not be too eager to reduce CO2 but let it be, it is the song that the Left has chosen to sing. I'm just gonna ask sir. Thomas Danielsen: What concrete initiatives have been taken to reduce Denmark's CO2 For I could understand that we had gone too far, and therefore I would like to hear: What is to be rolled back if the Left were to have the opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130315	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130318	I have not said that we should roll back anything. I have expressed a concern that we are running too far ahead. What is crucial for us is that we stand by the ambitious energy reconciliation we made in 2012 and, in addition, that we put pressure in the negotiations that the challenge we face in terms of energy is a challenge that we have to solve together all over the world, and unfortunately we cannot solve very many problems by running ahead in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130349	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130351	Nothing should be rolled back, but it should go slower in the future than the government wants. Does this also mean that the Left has abandoned the vision of former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen when he said that Denmark should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050? Has it been abandoned? And if you haven't given it up, sir. Thomas Danielsen did not agree with me that, in the years up to 2050, that is, from 2020 to 2030 and from 2030 to 2040, in order to achieve the result with a reasonable cost profile, can you say?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130428	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130431	I didn't say nothing should be rolled back. I have said that we must stand by the energy conciliation we have made. Our ambition to phase out fossil fuels by 2050, we have not run out either. I don't understand how sir. Per Clausen can deduce it from my speech. We still have the world's highest climate ambitions in Denmark, and the Left supports the vast majority of them. It is true that the current government wants to go further than we do in all areas, but our ambition for fossil fuels 2050 remains.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130507	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130511	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left, also for his support for the international negotiating track and the very, very important negotiations that we are about to embark on. It's gratifying. I also became a little curious about what the rapporteur of the Left was spending some time on: this is what we were doing too much. And I'd like to follow up on Mr. Per Mrs Clausen's question and ask: what have we proposed that we should not do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130537	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130541	Well, it's no secret that the government wants a faster phasing out of CO2 So that's one of the areas where an agreement has been made between the government and the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party, and where we are then outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130600	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130602	I understand that this is the 40-percent target for 2020, on which the Left is quite rightly outside the scope of the agreement. Then I would like to know when the Left thinks we should reduce by 40% if we are going to be down to zero in 2050, if we want to. When will the 40-percent cut be if it is not to be by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130626	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130631	I cannot make a mid-year figure for when we are going to have a 40-percent reduction. We have an objective that we continue to stand by in relation to our CO2 and here we are simply making it quietly aware that we are nervous about the proposals that are coming where we are running far too far ahead of the surrounding countries with which we are competing. After all, we export jobs which today have the most environmentally friendly production to countries with less environmentally friendly production.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130716	Thank you. Sir. Steen Gade, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130720	Thank you, and also thank you, first of all, for agreeing on the proposal for adoption. Now let's discuss what we disagree on. I understand that the Left is nervous about something in the future that they know nothing about, i.e. how we live up to the 40%. in 2020, agreed by the SF with the Government and Enhedslisten. Is it correctly understood that this is how it is and that it is not in the past? Because it is not true that Danish industry has higher energy taxes than their competitors abroad when we talk directly about taxes. After all, it is the EU's minimum directive that we are implementing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130801	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130804	I do not quite understand the question from Steen Gade, but yes, we are concerned that we are running too fast in Denmark compared to the countries with which we are competing. We do that every time we impose burdens on business. Well, then we're gonna reduce our competitiveness. So that's some of the stuff we're preoccupied with. Therefore, we are pleased that we continue to achieve broad agreements with the government, with the SF and with the Enhedslisten, because we thereby manage to move in a slightly more moderate direction. It's not that we're not climate-ambitious. But we must also recognise that we are the most climate-ambitious country in the world, and if we run too far ahead, the other countries will lose sight of us, and we will lose sight of our Danish production.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130845	Thank you. Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130848	Well well, we have actually just, what should we say, eased it for business. That's the way it is. It just sounds so weird that you're gonna have to hear a lot of discussions about how tight we are. No, we have just, in agreement, eased the burden on business. The second thing I want to say to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, is: What is he building that thing about us being so good? Well, I know that our CO2 citizen is one of the highest in all of Europe. Why do we have to tell the voters that our CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123130933	I also ended my rapporteur's speech by congratulating the government on the fact that we are dealing with the climate and energy agreement that we reached in 2012. That is why we also lowered taxes when we could see that they ran out of hand. That is what we are appealing to continue to do. Yes, we are ahead of a wide range of parameters, as the Minister outlined. That's why we're the world's leader, in case you call it a leader when you take the lead in energy. We in the Left think so. Not all companies are so happy that we have heavier burdens, but we also have a responsibility to lift, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123131011	Thank you. So there are no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123131025	Thank you. The rapporteur for the questioners started by saying that 2015 is climate year. Yeah, and a very crucial one. It has not been so long since we received the last report from the UN Panel on Climate Change, and they have unfortunately reminded us once again that it is very, very serious. Once again there is a report which does not in any way indicate that we have dealt with the problem, that we have solved it, that we are on the right path on the contrary. We are already experiencing extreme weather phenomena, not only at home, but much more so in the world's poorest countries, and it is quite awful when houses and cellars are under water and we lose billions and memories that cannot be replaced, but there are also very, very many places in the world where this is a much more concrete matter of life and death. We have been in Bangladesh together in the Committee on Climate and Energy, and I believe that the chairman of the committee earlier in this Chamber has also told the story, which we were told down there, of how they should sometimes react when there was a storm coming, a hurricane, a flood. Then you responded by not only climbing into the trees and binding yourself and waiting for it to drift over, but some of them were also parents and then chose to start climbing into another tree and tie their children up before they took refuge in a nearby wooden row themselves. In a very, very illustrative way, it is a picture of how serious it is in some parts of the world, and how important it is that we too, some of us who have helped to create this development, help to stop it again. Unfortunately, it only seems to get worse if we sit back. The 2 degrees that we expect we can handle, i.e. the 2 degrees increase that we expect we can handle in the world, is by no means something that comes on its own, and if we don't do anything, it gets much, much worse. That is why we need political courage and action, but there are also bright points in that report, and the bright points are that we actually have the technology, that we have the opportunity to do so if we make an effort, if we decide to do so. We will then need all the tools in the toolbox. That is what we are discussing in Paris. We also need some of the tools in the box that we are not so excited about here at home, but what is the truth is that we have to grab for all the tools we have. This brings me to the Paris meeting because the Paris meeting is important, but it is also very important, as the Minister has also emphasized very strongly in his answer to the question, that we do not first start in Paris. One thing, then, is that we must now get the countries on the ground and report in what they can and will and when. Another thing is that we need more people to jump on the wagon that we fortunately also saw the Americans and the Chinese climb on when they announced that they had an ambition and said together: we can actually do something, we would like to impose some obligations on ourselves. We need many more countries to do this because we are all too often in a situation where it is in the late hours of the night during these negotiations that we have to have the ends to reach together, and in this situation, unfortunately, we almost always end up with the lowest common denominator. It is also good that Lima agreed that we should have a negotiating text ready as early as the spring, so that we are engaged in the real debate much earlier. Denmark must ensure that we exercise effective climate diplomacy. Fortunately, this is not something we are starting now. This is something we have been doing for years, but it is important, as the Minister said, that we strengthen it, that we show both to those, if we may say so, progressive developing countries, those who are most affected, or those who have the greatest interest in following us, nurturing them, that we are on their side, that they in the European Union can also have some allies among those who want to do something, so that they can also speak up against some of the countries in their own group that are less ambitious, in the developing countries group, because, unfortunately, some of them have dominated it. In relation to the European Union, several people have also mentioned that it is of course important for us in the European Union to stand together. I believe that a great deal can be done for Paris in the European Union to discuss with each other too, not just to insist on a united front, but also to know that it is we who must have the flexibility, it is we who must be able to reach out, it is we who must be able to get the others involved. Therefore, it is of no use that we use all our gunpowder in the European Union to discuss ourselves to such a fine compromise, so that we do not have any room for manoeuvre. I think it is important that we get the support for the conversion that has also been talked about, the funding that has been talked about by several people. It is important that we work on aviation and shipping, because it is in itself very global and very international industries, and it is of course important that we continue the fight to phase out the fossil fuels and in particular the support for them, because it is a little hopeless that when we talk at home about supporting the green conversion, there are therefore very, very many places in the world where what is being supported is not to go away from fossil fuels, but rather to use more of them. So I hope and believe that with an ambitious Danish effort we can get very far, and I hope and believe for the sake of the climate that we will come to a good agreement in Paris. Of course, we fully support the proposal for adoption that we have been involved in making.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123131615	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123131624	First of all, I would like to thank the questions from the SF for the opportunity to discuss the subject here. It is not only about the negotiating strategy up to the forthcoming international climate negotiations later this year, but also, as I read the text, how we in Denmark deal with domestic climate policy and energy policy. I would say that we in the Danish People's Party believe that Denmark has already gone very far in climate and energy policy. We also believe that in Denmark we have gone too far, that it has gone too fast, and that this has led us to have a high price level for energy in Denmark, so that our households, our consumers and our businesses pay a high price for energy. Our households suffer in such a way that people's private finances are burdened more than necessary by higher electricity and heating bills, which means that you can spend less money on what you might think would have been more fun than paying electricity bills, and then you have to cut other places in your private budget. For the business community, the loss of competitiveness vis-à-vis the outside world leads to the loss of jobs in both the short and the long term. So the effort and the very high level of ambition put forward by the present government have major consequences for Denmark. I admit that the Danish People's Party is part of the energy agreement that was concluded almost 3 years ago, but the government's ambition is going far beyond what is stated in the energy agreement. I think it is worth discussing what the government has set itself as ambition, but also how it intends to achieve it. It is a fact that Denmark participates in the international climate negotiations every year. Denmark does, of course, because all the other countries in the world do.Of course, Denmark's strategy must also be laid down and discussed here in the Danish Parliament. As I said, we in the Danish People's Party believe that we in Denmark have gone very far in our domestic energy policy. We have already implemented very large reductions in CO2 which is why we in the Danish People's Party do not believe that there is any need for us in Denmark to go further along that path. And that's why we don't, like the government, rush to achieve a 40-percent reduction in CO2 It's ambitions that the Danish People's Party doesn't share. That is why we do not think that we should continue along the road that energy policy has been going on in Denmark for quite a number of years. We believe that in Denmark we can afford to say that Denmark has now drawn its share of the load and that what is to happen in international climate negotiations is that there are other countries that have to bear a heavier burden than they have carried so far, because Denmark has already taken its share of the haul. I would also like to say that we would urge the government not to adopt any more measures to reduce CO2 in domestic energy policy. It is a well-known fact that the Danish CO2 is therefore more symbolic when it comes to going from 34 per cent reduction to 40 per cent reduction in Denmark, and we would advise against this. These were the first comments from the Danish People's Party in this round. I should also like to take this opportunity, while I am on the floor, to present a proposal for adoption which we would like to see included in the further negotiations, and that is on behalf of the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. It sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark has already made far greater reductions in CO2 Parliament therefore urges the government not to impose obligations on Denmark for further reductions in future negotiations on a climate agreement. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to organise the Danish energy policy so that consideration of a stable and cheap energy supply is given priority rather than seeking more and symbolic reductions of CO2 V 17).
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132130	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132144	I understand, sir. Mikkel Dencker of the Danish People's Party believes that other countries should strive to be as ambitious as Denmark. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Mikkel Dencker: What does Mr. Mikkel Dencker who happens to climate change on a global scale if all nations in the world are looking to get the same CO2 inhabitants that we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132207	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132212	I am not going to be wise about that, but what is the burden you carry in a society if you decide to make CO2 that is what you take on the burden. After all, we in Denmark have taken on burdens that have so far led to 34 per cent reductions in 2020, and the government thinks that we should go on. It is not a burden that other countries have taken on, at least not a country of importance, and that is why we believe that what will be natural is that there are other countries that go further along that path before Denmark has to take on anything more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132251	Thank you. Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132253	But it must nevertheless mean a little for the position of the Danish People's Party, if you think that Denmark has done what you can provide. For what would the argument be for other countries not to derive exactly as much CO2 inhabitants as we do in Denmark? Then I'm just gonna ask you that question. Mikkel Dencker: What will the consequences be if we get up on that CO2 and I can reveal to Mr. Mikkel Dencker? Mikkel Dencker that it will lead to a dramatic increase in global CO2 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132325	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132328	I do not think we should move into the sort of pursuit that everyone should be able to do the same and would do the same. Every country in the world is different and has different starting points, but that is why it is possible to distribute the burden fairly and equally when making international agreements. Denmark has already taken on very heavy burdens itself, and this has had economic consequences for Denmark. There are just not many other countries that have taken on such burdens. So if agreements are to be made internationally that Denmark and all other countries in the world must undertake to meet some goals together, all countries must take their share of the burden, and there we have already done much more in Denmark than everyone else has.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132413	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132419	I also have to follow up a little in the same groove. I get it, sir. Mikkel Dencker, that one is still behind the 34 per cent reduction, which is part of the energy agreement that DF is also part of. But when Mr. Per Clausen among others. We are talking about the fact that we emit quite a lot per year. Dane, it is also because the things we consume are produced elsewhere in the world. And if you want to take a very similar approach, you can say, national angle on this and ask what we want in Denmark, Mr. Mikkel Dencker then imagine that Dansk Folkeparti will propose some restrictions on what the Danes may buy in, or something, if there is to be reasonableness, i.e. if there is such a thing as that the Danes manage theirs, and then the others have to cope with theirs? Because then we still owe away a great deal, and where is that supposed to come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132509	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132512	No, I do not want to impose any restrictions on what the Danes should be allowed to buy from imported goods. I do not know whether this is the kind of moral way of attacking climate policy that the Social Democratic Party wants to introduce, perhaps highly thought out, but that is not the ambition of the Danish People's Party. I would say that in the Danish People's Party we stand by that we are in the energy agreement, but the Danish People's Party has no stated target of 34 per cent. If the rise in haemoglobin is greater than 2 g/ dl (7.5 mmol/ l) in four weeks reduce the dose by approximately 25%. There is just the chin in it that the energy agreement leads to a reduction of 34 per cent, but it has not been a goal for the Danish People's Party in itself. Our objective is to be part of an energy agreement to influence what is going on in energy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132553	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132556	Now it wasn't my intention to make this a moral question. I think there are many good reasons for that, but I haven't really done that. I think it's sir. Mikkel Dencker, who makes this a moral question when he tries to indicate, or, if you like, the Danes, that we have reduced much and that we are climate-friendly, which is notoriously wrong, and when he also says, and I think that is a little bit moral, that we have now done ours. Well, I just don't understand. It is, of course, caught out of the air that we in Denmark are particularly climate-friendly. That is simply not true, and that is why I have to ask: on what basis is it based on our opinion that we have done enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132640	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132643	After all, we now have political agreements leading to a reduction of 34 per cent. of Denmark's CO2 There are not many other countries that can show similar results. So that is the way I think we have assumed our share of the burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132658	Thank you. Then it's mr. Steen Gade, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132701	Thank you. I'll stay on the same street. Well, it looks like some of a change of course when you look at what the Danish People's Party helped to propose and adopt before COP 15 in Copenhagen, when you were a support party, and it's as if the melody has become somewhat different, but it's so okay. So there's something I think it's interesting to look at here. If we are not going to do more than what we have done, then that means that we should not be involved in what has been agreed at EU level either, namely that the European Union must reach 40% overall. So, CO2 shouldn't we be involved in this? Are we just gonna say that it's solved for us now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132752	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132755	I think that we in Denmark should define the energy and climate policy that we think is best for Denmark, and all other countries can then also organise something. Now, of course, environmental issues are cross-border issues, and that is also why we have these COP meetings that the UN is organising, where all the countries of the world are talking together about the issues that may be involved, and that is also where we will try to find an international climate agreement. For us in the Danish People's Party it is natural that Denmark is part of all the international forums and you are also part of the talks that are with the representatives of other countries. If we are to enter into an international agreement, it must be an international agreement where there is a fair balance of burdens between all the participating countries. It should not be the case that in Denmark or in the Western world we have to recognise that it is all our fault and that we have to solve all the problems ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132856	Thank you to the rapporteur... no, there was just one more question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132908	Thank you for your answer. I understand that we are part of some international agreements, but we are also part of some of those called the EU agreements, and we have thus committed ourselves to joining Paris, and there will be a 40-percent reduction in the EU. Should we not then live up to what we are entering into an EU context? Then I just want to say something to Mr. Kim. Mikkel Dencker: The thing is that we as Danes have a huge CO2 It is true that we reduce, and that is good, and it is good that we agree on some things, but we are some of those who pollute the most per person. residents of the world. That's just the way it is. We're not quite at the top, but we're at the wrong end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132955	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123132958	After all, the more a country is developed, the higher the level of prosperity you have, the higher the production you have, the more you consume energy, for example, and that leads to CO2 but I do not think we should be ashamed that we are at the level that we are a well-developed society. I know that there are communities that have a much lower CO2 capita, but it is developing countries where people live in poverty and can afford nothing but to get heat and fuel by going out and finding old trees that they can chop to pieces. I don't think that's anything to aspire to. It may be that they emit less CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133040	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker. As the radical rapporteur is not present in the Chamber, we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Per Clausen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133048	Thank you. When we discuss climate change and climate change, we can certainly say that tomorrow everything will be quite different. This is, of course, one of the points that is made very clearly in the reports of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, because if we choose not to do anything, it will not be the case that we continue to have what we have today, then it will be quite different because of the large-scale climate change that is coming. After all, climate change has already become familiar with very, very violently in a number of poor countries and to a very limited extent in Denmark. But when you think about the reactions that are coming out, about the floods, etc. that we have seen in Denmark, it is nevertheless, I think, bold to say that we should not go further along the road of reducing our CO2 The fact is that it is quite, quite costily not to do anything. And, of course, the UN climate report also makes it very clear that if we do something quickly and early, it will be significantly cheaper than if we wait. Then you just have to say to the whole discussion of climate change that you have to ask yourself the question: Well, what does it mean if we do nothing and so move into 4-degree changes in temperature instead of those below 2 we have tried to work on so far? Yeah, we don't know. We know things are going wrong, but we don't know how wrong things are. It was such a bit about what we can do in relation to the future. Then you can choose to say: This is how we have 2 2 inhabitants in Denmark, but we have reduced it so we should not do any more. The prerequisite for this to be a viable solution is that the rest of the world does not insist on going through the same development as we have, i.e. getting the same increased energy consumption, getting the same increase in CO2 safe if you could operate with such figures. But can we allow ourselves to say that, because we have been based for 100 to 150 years now on massive economic growth on massive exploitation of earth's resources and massive pollution, do we indeed have the right to continue doing so? It may well be that it is out of step with the spirit of time to include moral elements in politics, attitude or values, but I will now allow myself to do so. So, in this light, there is no doubt whatsoever that Denmark has a clear obligation to take the lead. What we are mainly discussing today, or what lies primarily in the proposal for adoption, is, after all, a proposal on how Denmark can also lead the international negotiations. And we agree with the proposal for adoption that lies here because it provides a sensible line for Denmark's efforts in the international negotiations up to the Paris Summit. But it must also be quite clear that if the results of the United Nations are yet again disappointing, and one might well risk that, then experience shows us that it does not mean that Denmark's commitment to take the lead will disappear. And that does not mean that in future we will not have to work with other countries who, like us, want to take concrete steps to reduce CO2 In this cooperation, Denmark must of course cooperate with developing countries which, together with us, can show some development routes for poor countries that are able to create wealth, development, social progress, without destroying the climate and the environment in any of the emerging economies that need to restructure their production, so that the way they produce goods for example. The Danes in an energy far, far more responsible way than they do today, and also together with rich countries both to reduce our CO2 we must fight for that in the UN framework, and we must work for that in the daily international cooperation that the Danish Government is involved in, and that is what we want to say by also supporting the proposal for adoption that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133556	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133600	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Per Clausen, how it is connected that he is voting in favour of this proposal for adoption tabled by the SF with the support of the government, the Conservatives and the Left, and at the same time he is actually thundering against what it says: it is not ambitious enough, it is even close to being immoral to fight for. The truth is that what is in this proposal for adoption is no different from the line we have had so far, so there is such broad support for it. But how does it relate to the fact that it is immoral and unambitious, and at the same time you vote in favour of the exact opposite of what you say, namely that it is precisely we rich countries that have to reduce it the most. So here we are talking about "It's actually in the text that it should be especially the big emitters, i.e. the United States and China.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133659	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133702	Now, I'm sorry to make this very clear to Mr. Knox. Thomas Danielsen, what it says in this proposal for adoption, but what it says is that it is the developed countries and the large emitters who have to take on ambitious and binding reduction targets in particular. It is also very clear that it is also a question of getting some money from the rich countries to finance both protection against climate change and restructuring in third world countries. So we can easily vote in favour of what is here, but of course it is not alone. As I could understand, the Left had some side remarks, we also have some side remarks; they then just go in the opposite direction to the Left's side remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133748	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133751	But that is still not in line with what the rapporteur said in his speech, in which he thundered against the fact that we are too unambitious. That is why I am rather surprised that the rapporteur himself does not come up with a proposal for adoption instead. In other words, there is no difference between this and what we have otherwise had as a negotiating line either in previous governments or in the future. It is something about the rich countries having to finance something for the poor countries. We are very much in agreement with that, and we have done that historically, and we must of course also be involved in that forward-looking approach. Then the text says something directly about the ambitious reduction rates from the major emitters in particular, i.e. the United States and China, as Mr. Steen Gade also stressed in his own rapporteur's speech. And that's what I don't think is quite related to Mr. Knox. Per Clausen's statement. But it is fine if we calm down a little and then find a more restrained proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133843	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133846	I can only note that what the proposal for adoption says is that it is mainly the countries and the most developed countries that have to take on ambitious and binding reduction targets. That is entirely in line with what I said in my speech. But what I said was that, in addition to having a sensible and reasonable strategy on how to carry out tasks when negotiating with the United Nations, we also need to have other elements in our policy, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133913	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is not present in the Chamber, we move on to the Conservative rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123133924	Thank you very much, Madam President. After all, the Conservative People's Party takes the UN climate panel report very seriously, and it confirms that we are doing the right thing in Denmark, that we are taking the lead, that we are setting an agenda. We will do what we have to do, because if we do not do it and if we do not keep up with others, we can see in the report what the consequences will be. In some countries things are going very fast, others are lagging behind. After all, that is what the major negotiations at the COP meeting are about: to get the largest and most provocative countries to contribute more than they have done. We've seen floods, hurricanes, air pollution. Everyone knows how things are in China, Beijing, where it can be very difficult to see the sun for most days in a year. In Paris, where COP 21 is to be, pollution goes down the walls. It is sometimes almost dangerous to breathe in Paris, in Europe. So there are things that need to be done, and that is why this agenda is very serious. In Denmark, in the Conservative People's Party, we have a fixed agenda. We're the green party in the blue block. We want to ensure that the land we have in our country is transferred to the next generation in a better constitution. Clean air, clean water, healthy food, etc. is an important agenda. That is why the green agenda, the green change, is also necessary. But that change is also a expressed desire for us in the energy conciliation. That is where we demonstrate our willingness to do what is right. That is also where we have some reservations. That is where we have agreed what this must cost, because we have the citizens at the heart of people first. What can we do without it simply becoming too expensive, because we have to recognise that on the bottom line green change is about what burdens can be imposed in dollars and ears and what consequences it will have for citizens. And when we have properly balanced it so that citizens are given incentives to participate, we must also look at what the consequences are for business. What is the cost of jobs when we impose demands on companies for increased technology that emits less, and what are the benefits of it? That balance must also be in order, and that is what we have taken care of in the energy conciliation. Then there are some figures that have gone away and some assumptions that have changed, and that is why we regularly have a dialogue to bring things back to the starting point and the conditions we actually agreed in 2012 on the energy settlement. In the green change, where we have a lot of focus on ordinary people and the bill they have to pay, there is also the second agenda on how we will achieve the goal we have in 2050 of being independent of fossil fuels. But it must, of course, go hand in hand with wind and other things along with oil and gas. We must use the resources we have. We are not going from one day to the next to use our energy sources. There we then have a target of reducing greenhouse gases and CO2 by 2020. Others have said that we have reached 33-34 per cent. We are convinced that we can reach the 40%. also by picking low-hanging fruits. It is not easy, but we can achieve that objective. We have demanded, and this is a firm premise, that this should happen while creating jobs and jobs. It must not be a growth killer. This must not mean that there will be fewer jobs in Denmark, meaning that we must not impose burdens, either on citizens or on businesses, which make competitiveness less competitive. It is simply a question of creating equal conditions for the Danish business community in relation to those against whom they compete. It could be the nearest countries, but it actually applies in the EU and worldwide, but let us now stick to the European Union and the nearest countries with which we are competing. That is why PSP is a challenge for business, because it is not paid in any of our neighbouring countries, and therefore it will be more expensive to produce, and we need to do something about that. The growth package has also succeeded in reducing energy costs. And in the Conservative People's Party we have the goal that it must not be more expensive to be a company Denmark than it is in the countries we compare with and compete against. So yes to take the lead, but in an intelligent way, so that we can pay the bill and maintain our competitiveness. While we are doing so, in other words, creating that technology and the opportunities to sell it for the benefit of our treasury, for the benefit of business income and turnover, and thus we will also have more jobs, we must be careful that things are not going too fast. It is a fact that if we ask our companies to deduce less and then it is discharged into neighbouring countries, then it blows back into our heads. I can see from the President that I have now exhausted my time. So that was the comments of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123134443	That's right. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123134452	I would like to thank you for a good debate, which I think has been important. What I am taking with me from a broad majority in the Folketing is, of course, a strong mandate towards the negotiations in Paris, and I am pleased about that. I will, of course, promise that I will use the mandate to make Denmark's voice heard in trying to get us an ambitious climate agreement. We will use the entire keyboard we have put forward, and we will use it as hard as we can now. It is clear that the debate has revealed some disagreements about the pace within Denmark, and there are many of the discussions we are going to revisit in different variations in the years to come. What is not to be visited again after this debate is, as I said, the mandate with which Denmark is now going to negotiate. And I look forward to reporting on how we have done it, hopefully after we have reached a solid and ambitious climate agreement in Paris at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123134556	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Steen Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123134608	Thank you. Thank you for the Minister's commitment, also thank you for the debate and thank you for the broad support. The comments I just wanted to make are linked to some of the discussions that have also taken place. One is for the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Thomas Danielsen. Perhaps we should try to work a little more on what we mean when we say that we are ahead. It is clear that we are ahead, in the sense that we have reduced our CO2 by 2020 if we implement the energy agreement. If we deliver 40%, which the government, SF and Enhedslisten will be involved in, we will be at the top when it comes to reducing CO2 but just keep in mind that our emissions per year. I mean, it's in the high end. If we take the EU average then that's what I could just find from my seat. population is about the same as China's average per capita population. people are today and we are still a little above the EU average. That's the way it is. That is why we are having some of those discussions. Perhaps we could appeal to us to talk about it in such a way that we say that we are good at energy conversion, and we get a lot of CO2 inhabitants in Denmark today. We have to do that by 2050. We agreed with the Left on this. It was actually the Prime Minister of the Left who said that at some point. It was Anders Fogh Rasmussen who said that at the time. That's the one thing I wanted to say. The second is on the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, and it is for that reason that Denmark should not be subject to further reduction commitments. If we just take what we agree on, namely that by 2020 there will be a reduction of 34 per cent. out of the energy agreement, is the question: should we not do anything from 2020 to 2030 in Denmark? That is what the Paris negotiations are all about. After all, it will be about a target for 2025 or 2030 or something that you have to sign up for. It has not finally been decided how long there is, but you have to report some new targets. Are we really not going to commit ourselves to anything? After all, this is also about modernising our production facilities and modernising our society, and I would like to say to Mr. Mike Legarth, I fully agree that we need to organise this wisely and intelligently so that we also help create jobs. In fact, I think we do that with the energy agreement. That is the one thing I want to say here. The second point I would like to make is that we are putting so much stress on business: we have now spent some time on what is technically called PSO, and we have taken care to make it easier for business. It is because it got bigger than we expected, but it should be remembered that the energy tax itself on business in this country is the EU's minimum taxation. Then there's the PESO, and we're relaxing it. It is precisely because we take care of business. Then it is true that we as consumers pay high energy taxes. It's true. We have, as we have seen since the late 1970s, agreed in this country to do that. Why have we been? It is because we know that the most effective both economically for us as a society and in climate action is to have a low energy consumption per year. It's a citizen, and we do. Among other things: Because we have high energy taxes, we have taught each other that we need to save energy. And we shall continue to do so in the years to come. Finally, thank you for the debate, and to those who think that we are always talking about this in the Folketing, I would say: yes, we are fortunately talking about this in committee, in the media and in public, but we have to go back five years before there was a vote in the Folketing on this point. I think this is a good proposal for adoption and we must do our best to keep the Minister on fire in this matter over the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135122	Thank you, sir. Steen Gade. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135128	I would like to ask the SF's rapporteur whether SF does not recognise that the general technological developments we have in our society are being researched into new technologies that are being improved, refined and everything else just being cheaper over time, as in itself will lead to the reduction of CO2 I think, for example. on windmills. In any case, some types of wind turbines are gradually as cheap in their production costs as fossil energy. You can actually get a lower CO2 if you don't have to accept some heavy ambitions or big goals or impose a high level of demands on yourself, doesn't the SF recognise that? Does not SF also recognise that the Danish population is so aware of its energy consumption because energy costs money that everyone then tries not to spend more than is necessary? You can see that in the last 10 years the Danish car park has undergone a major development, where you actually drive almost twice as far on the liter than you did 10-15 years ago. Does the SF not recognize the fact and that it is therefore actually superfluous with these reduction targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135246	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135249	Well, it is also because it is quite true that this is very much a technological issue. Well, windmills haven't come by themselves. They have come because there are some who have made a policy for them and some who have thought that we should reduce our CO2 by developing a new technology. That's one. The second is: what about the cars, for example.? Why is it that so many Danes fortunately choose cars that drive far on the liter today? That's because the gas costs something. In other words, if we were there at the levels at which we are located in some countries where large, large state subsidies are given to fossil fuels, we would not be driving twice as far on the litre. It's because we've made policy for it. That's because you can buy an A-marked car instead of an E-marked car. Hopefully, the same is true when you look at houses. It is because we are doing something, it is because we are thinking in terms of reducing this, because we have to do it for the sake of the planet, and then we have to do it brilliantly and so that we also help create jobs and a sensible standard of living.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135352	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135355	What I was trying to get the SF rapporteur to recognise is that the development is actually moving towards less energy consumption in society, regardless of whether the government sets reduction targets and ambitions that fossil fuels should not be there, simply because we have a technological development that makes green energy actually cheaper over time. We also have a development that makes it better to isolate our houses today and thus have lower heat consumption, because it is common sense because people do not want to spend more money than they need on their heating bills and on their electricity bills. So why have all these great chrome-plated ambitions when we all know very well that Denmark's CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135446	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135449	Well, it is true that technological developments are taking place. I'm just saying, it doesn't come by itself. I mean, it's coming because some people are preoccupied with it coming. I would like to take part in taking credit for technological development and the jobs that have been created. I think my party has a nice share of the credit for that. It is not the case that we have to stand alone to take credit for it, but it is partly because we have had in mind that we must have our CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135528	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135531	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's comment on what is ambitious. This is a very exciting discussion: what is an ambitious policy in this area? After all, the challenge is that climate and welfare go hand in hand, and that is why it is a balancing act. So if you want iron foundries, horticulture and plastic manufacturing plants etc. In Denmark, we obviously need to take some account of how hard we are burdening our manufacturing companies in Denmark in particular. We do this partly in our climate and energy policy, but the higher our demands, the worse it gets. If, at the same time, we have a welfare society in which those who are to contribute to the welfare society are in a minority, then if we want to maintain that welfare, we must be careful to make greater demands on how far Denmark is going to go. That is why the Left's agenda is that the biggest emitters and sinners in the world must have to go hand in hand to ensure a less emissions of CO2 We hope so, and we can then hear that this is also what the rest of the Danish Parliament is agreed on. Then it is different which proposal for adoption is supported, but basically it is at least the joint wish of the Folketing, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135646	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135650	That's right. It is simply in the proposal for adoption that the greatest emitters, even if they are found in what may be technically called developing countries, at least those countries which are on the way forward, for example. China must commit itself. They have to. But I do not know if Denmark is ahead. It's a discussion. Well, when our CO2 citizen is kind of on the high end, are we that much ahead? When the EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU averages per EU But we are at the forefront of conversion, and that is where we help to create some jobs, among other things. Over there, where Mr. Thomas Danielsen is elected and I am also elected. Well, in the whole energy sector, we're creating thousands of jobs by making this transition. It is a balance, you might say, yes, but it is also political will that helps both to make the transition that is necessary and to ensure that we both create jobs and, of course, do not strangle any jobs. Nobody dreams that that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135753	Thank you. Then there are no more questions and no more have asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 27 January 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150123135811	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 27 January 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule set out on the Danish Parliament's website.
