ParlaMint-DK_20150203130001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203130010	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his opening remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203130014	Last week we reached a broad agreement here in Parliament to strengthen efforts against radicalisation and extremism. It's important. At the same time, the government will hit hard on those who go to Syria and Iraq to fight with ISIL. We will take their passports, we will take their residence permit, because the message to them must be clear: don't go! I hope, of course, that we can have broad support for the proposals made by the government. I have many Tuesdays here in Question Time called for a clear policy from the Left. It could be a tax policy, so we are told who should have tax cuts and who should pay for those tax cuts; it could be a zero growth plan, so we are told whether it is the school pupils or the elderly who have to pay for it. And today we have another bid for zero growth from the Left. It only creates more uncertainty about essential conditions for the Danes' safety. This raises new questions about where to cut when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has spent all the money on tax relief. Now we have to understand that income transfers such as the retirement pension and the allowance have also been put at risk by the Left. And the habit of faith speaks Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen about promos when it is really about billions that make a real difference to the well-being of the Danes. It just underlines that we need to see a plan from the Left. Nevertheless, there is, of course, a small light in the dark and reason to rejoice, because we have been able to clarify a crucial issue over the past week. We have now finally been told and it has changed a bit what is the Left's ultimate requirement. Now one might think that the Left's ultimate demand was that we should have better health or that there should be tax cuts at the bottom, but no, that is not the case. The left's ultimate demand is for the housing job scheme to be reinstated. I'd like to talk about that a little bit. Because what about the housing job scheme? Firstly, it is important to say that it was a good arrangement at the right time and place. It supported employment at a critical time, and that was fine. But it is also necessary for responsible politicians to give priority. I think we owe it to the taxpayers. The Left claims that the housing job scheme will mean 5,000 new jobs. That is not correct. The real figure is rather about 1,500 new jobs, and this is because much of what will be done under the scheme is something people would have done anyway. Secondly, it is important to focus on who benefits from the Left's housing job scheme. That answer is very simple, for among those with an income of over DKK 700,000. spent almost four out of ten housing jobs in 2013, but among those with an income of less than DKK 350,000. It was less than one in ten. Something quite different is where the Left will find the money for the housing job scheme... it's expensive. It costs more than 1 billion. I understand on the left that it should apply retroactively from this year onwards. What is it that the Left imagines? Does the Left envisage that the municipalities will have to return money in 2015, or should all employees who have been deducted from the union quota pay back their tax relief? Left says to the Danes that they should save the artisan bills from this year, but isn't it rather the Left who is now again putting the bill? Dear Left, put that plan forward! The government, on the other hand, is in charge of a robust economic policy in which expenditure and revenue are consistent, employment is increasing, growth has been in the hands of the economy and budgets for five consecutive quarters. And here we have one of the major dividing lines in Danish politics: The government is laying out its policy honestly and clearly, the Left lacks a plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203130507	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, as you know, the questioner and Prime Minister both have up to two minutes' speaking time. Then follow two rounds where both the questioner and the minister each time have up to 1 minute's speaking time. So far, we have not managed to keep to the times. Shall we try today? Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as the leader of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203130531	You can always try; I'll do my best. The government, on the other hand, is presenting its policy clearly: yes, thank you for the coffee! If I remember the idea of this Question Time, the idea is that it starts with the Prime Minister giving a status on the government's position, but it was then about the Left. And then there is something that falls into place for me, because I saw yesterday that the Prime Minister was at the Food Bank, and I thought: where does this sudden interest in things that have passed the last date of sale come from? But that is clear to me now, because if we are to discuss politics, we must obviously discuss the policy of the Left, which is the current one, because the government is obviously only able to deliver on something that has passed the last date of sale. But let's get this sale date in place soon. Let us have that choice instead of each time standing down here and entertaining each other with what kind of policy would be pursued if I were to become Prime Minister. But let's give it a shot, or let's spend the meantime on something sensible. And that's actually what I'd like to ask the Justice Minister. It is of course cheerful and interesting for me to come down here every Tuesday and get questions from the Prime Minister, but it would be more interesting if we could hear what the government wants on Tuesday and if the government took any initiatives. In his New Year speech, the Prime Minister suggested that more growth initiatives are needed. The Prime Minister said a few hours ago that they would be included at some point. That is why I would just like to ask: when is what we can expect us to be called for negotiations on growth initiatives? For yes, I can confirm that, among other things, the Left will take with it a desire to reinstate the housing job scheme. I guess it could have a good prognosis, too. The last time the government, together with the Enhedslisten, abolished the housing job scheme, it managed to restore it when we were in growth negotiations. So it may be possible to do it again. I think that would be to the satisfaction of the 550,000 Danes who have made use of this scheme. So my question is really: when can we expect an invitation for growth negotiations in the Ministry of Finance? The sooner we get there, the easier it will also be to find the funding needed to reinstate this scheme with retroactive effect from 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203130808	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203130810	It's kind of weird to hear that the government didn't have to put its policy forward. Last week we agreed on a plan against extremism and radicalisation; today we are dealing with third-reading proposals in this Chamber about Syrians and that we will remove the passport from them and are currently discussing the transformation of the legal reservation. So in this way it sounds very strange to me that the government should not put forward any initiatives. What we have lacked is that the Left took a concrete position, for example. in writing. - (FR) The Left has had great difficulty in taking a position on the greatest tightening of asylum policy for 12 years. We could have adopted it much earlier, otherwise the Left would have thought it appropriate to take a specific position on matters. I guess it's not too much, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, to ask the Left to present a plan for economic policy, and much guesswork could be avoided in terms of whether to cut transfer income, whether it is in health, in the police, or where it is to be cut if the Left would just put forward a plan. Why is it that the Left does not present a plan? Who is to receive tax relief? Who's gonna pay those tax cuts? Who is to pay for the Left's zero growth? Are there any transfer income to be cut? The questions are now very many. And it is not too much to ask that Denmark's largest party should, after all, be asked to present an economic plan in the field of taxation and the public sector. Why doesn't the Left do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203130943	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203130946	There is an excellent plan and we have helped the government to make it, namely a 2020 plan that could not have been made if the Left had not taken responsibility during this parliamentary term and helped the government to fulfil the conditions on which that plan is based. The many questions that are coming now, i.e. whether to cut in relation to the pensioners and who to fire, are such questions that can only be born in the brain of people who have the habit of saying one thing before the elections and doing something else after the elections. In other words, there was a prime minister who went to the polls to make a millionaire tax and who reduced the tax on millionaires, there was a prime minister who went to the polls on a frightening picture of the welfare society and then intervened in the regulation of transfer income. It is clear that when you have the approach to politics that you can say something before the elections and do the opposite after, you can suspect us of anything. I can just say quite quietly that if we had any plans to cut the retirement pension, we would say so before a parliamentary election. So you can rule that out completely. And now I'm just reviewing my question: is there a need for growth initiatives or else it doesn't matter to invite us? And that's where I had to understand. When can we expect an invitation for growth negotiations with the government? Because if we are not going to have a parliamentary election anyway, even if the last date of sale is approaching, then we might as well spend our time on something sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131112	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131114	We are very happy to negotiate with the Left and, of course, we will put forward our proposal and then also negotiate with the Left and the other parties of the Folketing, as we normally do. But Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen tells us not to cut the folk pension, and then we've got it in place. We now know two things about the policy of the Left: it seems that the retirement pension should not be cut and that the housing job scheme should be implemented retroactively. These are the two things we know. Could the Left answer other questions: what are the tax concessions to be given? Who's gonna pay those tax cuts? How should the zero growth that you may not be in favour of be implemented? Who's gonna pay? Who will no longer be there in the public sector? Could the Left just give a tiny little explanation of how things are connected? And don't try to convince me and the Danes that this has been answered by saying yes to a 2020 plan, because you haven't. For the Danes know that we are not working with zero growth. After all, we are working on the possibility for the public sector to develop not much each year, but with a modest development. The Left is working on the need to stand still in the public sector. Couldn't the Left make a plan over the Danes? That's both right and fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131230	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131231	I am happy to discuss this with the Prime Minister; it just requires the Prime Minister to show up when we are invited together to KL meetings and elsewhere to discuss these things, because I think it takes more than three lines. I can understand in relation to what I'm now asking about if we just for a moment respect the concept that it's called Question Time with the PM that the government is putting forward proposals in the Chamber and inviting us, and then I just ask: When? So, we have some proposals for a housing job scheme and that we have to do something for agriculture that is broken down and something else, and the content we can come back to, but could we just get in touch with what I said about the last date of sale? When can we count on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131320	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131322	Growth negotiations will be convened if there are growth negotiations. We will put forward some proposals, and then we will have to discuss it from there. At the moment, we are deeply concerned about other issues. We are concerned about how to ensure that the Syrian warriors do not leave, we are concerned about tightening asylum legislation for the first time in 12 years, and the Left has now found out that they will probably want to join it and we are concerned about ensuring that Denmark can be safe and quiet and protected against terrorism. So there are many things we are concerned with at the moment. But Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen speaks consistently. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen blames the form in this Chamber for not being able to answer a simple question, namely what the Left wants in economic policy in Denmark. Before the elections, we, who were in opposition at the time, every time we appeared in the Chamber, were in one way or another required an answer to what the plan was and so on. We also presented a plan and have implemented by far most of what we said before the elections. Why is it that it is not the same rules that apply to the Left and the bourgeois opposition that appeared to apply when we were in opposition? Why is it that the Left spends so much time talking about it rather than just giving answers to the Danes who can rightly expect answers? Where is it in welfare that needs to be saved? Who is it that no longer has to be in the public sector? Who is to receive tax relief? And who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131450	Then we go to the second series of questions. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131455	There is, of course, one point on which there is a different set of rules, but that is not something that has been adopted anywhere. It is a set of rules which, as such, are based on the fact that when we say something, we implement it too. I therefore acknowledge that the Prime Minister, in his former capacity as President of the opposition, presented a plan before the elections, but I will not sign for the way in which it was dealt with afterwards. For virtually everything that was not going to happen, unemployment benefit reform and pre-retirement reform, did come about anyway. Virtually everything that was to become something, payment ring, two teachers in all classrooms, a golden rain over the country's municipalities and paternity leave, did not materialise. A completely different policy has been pursued. Two out of three of the country's municipalities today have less to run the municipality than when I was Prime Minister. And then you try to look up that you are the great protector of the public sector after you have reduced it after you have made Denmark poorer by DKK 5,500. less per citizen. So if we are to stay on that track, I would like to know if the Prime Minister, if re-elected, will issue a personal job guarantee to all the public sector employees. I have to understand that's what you're driving for. I just asked quite quietly when the government is presenting these growth initiatives so we can negotiate them, but now it's become if there's going to be growth negotiations because you're preoccupied with other things. This is not in any way a gender policy comment, but I would just like to say that I can multi-task. Well, we can handle the whole discussion about Syria... I'll come back to it in a few moments... but we can actually deal with the challenge that we can, for example, deal with. has a Danish agriculture that is being forced to kneel, and where certain farmers' families have to go from house to home; that we come backwards in 2015; that the government has downgraded growth estimates eight times; that Denmark has become a poorer country since the Prime Minister became Prime Minister; that there is an obvious need for some growth initiatives to be taken. Even if there's a choice around the corner, we'll be happy to show up. It takes us an invitation, and I'm just asking when we can expect to get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131716	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131718	First of all, I am very surprised that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who wants to be Prime Minister of Denmark, spends his time talking Danish economy down. I just don't understand. It's better in Denmark. It is true that we had to put the economy right, because it was the rule rather than the exception that the bourgeois government did not manage the budgets. They left then. But we've got it now. If I'm wrong, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen finally correct me and give me a few years when you actually kept your own budgets. What years it was could be interesting to know. You didn't keep your own budgets. So how's it going now? Now we are making progress. We have been making progress for five quarters of growth. That's good. There is a prospect that we will have more growth this year. There are fewer people missing a job. Unemployment has gone down, employment has gone up. If we just look at the time from spring 2013, we can see that there are 20,000 more people who have entered employment. Is that bad for them? No, that's really good news. Denmark's competitiveness has been strengthened. Companies have been given more work to do. Exports have increased. The housing market is better. There's progress. Why is that, sir? Lars Løkke Rasmussen is not prepared to acknowledge that the Danes have quietly fought their way out of the crisis? We are not quite out of it yet, we do not have a self-sustaining economy, but because of good economic policy and because the Danes are industrious and work a lot, we are actually getting out on the other side. Why is that, sir? Lars Løkke Rasmussen has such a desire to talk Denmark and the Danes down?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131858	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203131900	I certainly don't want to do that, and neither do I. We would thus like to contribute to a self-sustaining recovery. That is why we have been pleased to see that the government has taken over the economic policy of the VK government, even though it went to elections on the contrary. That is why we have been there every time negotiations have been invited. Some of them we have provoked ourselves, and I am actually here trying to try again. The Prime Minister is just saying that we have no self-sustaining recovery. The Prime Minister gave a New Year's speech in which she herself indicated that there might be a need for more growth initiatives. Then I stand here and bid us and say: can we please come because we can see that there are some imbalances? We can see the problem that there are 330,000 Danes for whom there is no significant gain from going to work. We can see that it is a problem that we have almost 800,000 working age who have been excluded from the labour market. We can see that nearly half of non-western immigrants are without work. We can see that something needs to be done. Now that we are talking about managing the figures, for example, I can say that the government has given the refugees who come to Denmark a pay increase of DKK 10,000. a month, so that a refugee family with three children now receives DKK 454,215. a year. There's no control over the influx. What we support the government later today is a Band-Aid on the wound. There's no funding for that. The government has uncool savings over in Asian Square, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to be returned to in the autumn. It's sailing. And there we offer to come and help the government get these things together. I'm just asking, when can we come?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132047	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132049	Well, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is welcome for negotiations. We put forward our policy as usual. At any rate, the government cannot be blamed for being passive or not putting forward entirely normal and good policy. I sign for when we do things together. Among other things, we did. Last week, and today, the Left will finally vote in favour of the first tightening of asylum policy in 12 years, and we are, of course, very pleased about that. I think, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen forgot to tell me what year in the 10 years when the bourgeois government had the power that was in control of the budgets out in the municipalities. Because now that we are being blamed for the fact that things are not in order, it is interesting to ask what it really was like in the past and also to welcome the fact that economic policy is now under control. I still think we are in a situation where the Left has many errands they would like to discuss, but why does the Left not put forward a plan? Today we are opening a new debate on what zero growth is. In the past, it was believed that zero growth would harm nuclear welfare. I think that's what they said back in 2011. In 2013 it was then found that it could easily be done, and now in 2015 you can get zero growth by cutting such a little here and there. It may be on transfer income, or it may be in the public sector. You have to ask the Left and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: Isn't it time to make a plan rather than the Danes? We're discussing in the dark. We are happy to come Tuesday after Tuesday, but we are discussing with each other blindly as long as the Left does not put forward a plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132224	Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen for the last lap.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132227	I simply cannot understand why a prime minister who has gained government power by putting the public in the eye; who in the time before she became prime minister did little more than speak for more public expenditure; and who, when we tried to gain control over wage formation in the public sector, walked around down here in the palace square and advocated an alternative majority for a pay pool of 5 billion. kr., now seems that the most interesting thing in our discussions is to look in the rearview mirror. Quite frankly, the country is being led forward, and I can easily see that the fact that after the elections the government took a completely different course from the one chosen; and that the fact that there has been a constructive opposition, which has made it possible for us to create two growth agreements and a tax agreement and a number of other measures, has made it brighter. But we have the Prime Minister's own words a moment ago that we do not yet have a self-sustaining recovery. We have a Prime Minister who, in his New Year speech, has highlighted the need for more growth initiatives, and then you cannot even get an answer as to whether there will be any negotiations at all. And if there are negotiations, you cannot get an answer as to when they will come. When there is a screaming need; when we have a food business that is forced to kneel because of Ukraine; when we come backwards in 2015; when Denmark is today a poorer country than when the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, I cannot even get an answer to what was today's simple question: not what the government is proposing, but when the government is proposing something.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132400	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132403	I can feel that, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen wants to talk around. When we ask for an answer as to whether the budgets were kept in the past, that is a pointless and irrelevant question. When we ask for an answer on how the tax policy of the Left is to be put together, we will not get an answer. When we ask for an answer as to how zero growth is to be drawn together, it floats in the wind. Over a few years now, the Left has meant at least three different things about zero growth. In 2011, core welfare would suffer; we are in agreement with that. In 2013, this could easily be done. In 2015, we are in a situation where we cannot get answers to such a simple question as: is it in transfer income that needs saving? Is it in the public sector? Is it the police? Is it on education policy? Where to save? It is a simple question. In addition, the Left apparently wants an extra tax relief to be granted to 330,000 Danes at work. How much money is it, the Left, and who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132512	Thank you, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who has already left the stage. Then it's the leader of the Danish People's Party, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132525	Thank you, President. Yes, it may be that we should have the pulse a little lower, that is, I think that one can sense to such an extent that there is an electoral atmosphere in here, and I think most people who are watching this debate are thinking: Have we had the election printed out? was that what the Prime Minister really used his first five minutes for? I have seen that the Rules of Procedure say that if the Prime Minister chooses to start speaking for five minutes, it can, for example, speak for five minutes. In the case of measures, it is stated that the government is planning to implement them. Measures planned by the government were not so much in the Prime Minister's introduction; there was, of course, a concentration on the Left, and peace with it, as has happened before in this Chamber. But I will try to ask the Prime Minister a question. After all, the Prime Minister says that the money is under control, and that is perhaps a truth with modifications. I stood here a few weeks ago with the story, which was also reproduced in Jyllands-Posten, which could of course describe that under this government refugee families have received an average of 10,000 kroner. more a month, so an average refugee family has now reached 450,000 kroner. a year. The fact is that we can now see what the total cost is when it comes to the policy of the government in the area of asylum. On 20 January, we received a response from the government showing that the total cost of asylum seekers, accommodation, etc. in 2015 amounts to an expected 9.2 billion. kr. Is that a big number or a small number? I think it's a big number. Is that a big number or a small number compared to the previous one? That's a very big number. The comparable figure in 2011 when the current Prime Minister became Prime Minister was less than 3 billion. kr. That is why my question to the Prime Minister here today is this: does the Prime Minister really believe that the money in this area is under control when you can see that there is comparable costs in relation to our asylum system, etc. has increased from just under 3 billion. kr. in 2011 to expected 9.2 billion. kr. In 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132739	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132742	Yeah, the money's under control. After all, we have always made financial laws where the economy is completely under control, so that is something to be welcomed. In relation to the specific policy on foreigners, it is true that the situation at the moment is that there are record numbers on the run, and if you look all the way back to World War II, you see that there were record numbers of people on the run. Some of them also come to Denmark, and that is why we have now decided to make the first tightening of asylum legislation in 12 years. So far, of course, we have stuck to the asylum policy that the previous government was living with, and now we have decided to tighten asylum policy by first tightening up for 12 years. What is, of course, gratifying is that, after the Left has thought very carefully about it, it seems that they will also support the tightening. When a tightening is necessary, it is because there is a large influx to Denmark, and we think this tightening is both proper and reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132842	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203132844	Then the Prime Minister succeeded in bringing the Left back into it in a discussion with me. I mean, it's unbelievable. I am simply asking, in relation to a major policy area, about some expenditure that explodes. And then the Prime Minister thinks that the money is in order because the funding has been found; the money has been found in the Finance Act, and then the money is in order. Yes, but now the Prime Minister makes a lot of sense that the discussion in Danish politics is about whether there is money for welfare, whether there is money for the elderly, whether there is money for hospitals, and she says that the government has 3 billion. kr. up to 2020, such as around, for a growth in public spending, and that is one of the major differences in Danish policy. But I think most Danes can see that if we are talking about one area, asylum etc., where the cost goes from less than 3 billion. kr. in 2011 to expected more than 9.2 billion. kr. In 2015, it pales a bit to discuss whether there are 3 billion. kr. extra from one year to the next for some additional public expenditure. For here is one area that is allowed to grow so heavily in costs that it will then have a major impact on what is doing well in relation to our older people, in relation to our hospitals, in relation to our police, in relation to possible border controls, etc. etc., as we are some others walking around hoping that there will be an opportunity to introduce into Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133013	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133015	I very much agree that we need to control immigration, that we need to control how many people come here. And what we are preoccupied with in the government is what I also said in the New Year's speech is that people who are in Denmark should work preferably it should be a normal job, but if it is not possible, they must get out and make use of the benefits they get and the faster the better. I think it is very important that we ensure that people who come to Denmark as refugees do not end up as clients, but rather that we quickly make them part of Danish society. It is good for them, but it is also good for society's economy. So, of course, this is also about getting a handle on the Danish economy. But may I not just say about the welfare: sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl supports a Left Government, and the greatest threat that we can have the opportunity to develop our public sector a little each year is therefore not the refugees who come to Denmark, no, that is Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen himself and the other bourgeois opposition. So that's why the big question to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is still, why their main concern, in fact, the only thing that one has and which one cannot possibly depart from, is that one supports a bourgeois government with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in the lead, who has made it his main priority to want zero growth in the public sector. That is where the threat is to the public sector in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133143	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133147	No, I did not really think that I would be able to get an answer from the Prime Minister, who was alone in relation to what I asked without the Left being involved in it, but there we were once again given proof that this is the only thing the Prime Minister apparently can do. What I am trying to get the Prime Minister to do here in Question Time is to relate to the fact that asylum costs have been calculated by the government itself only in January of this year, namely that the expected cost of asylum, etc. is 9.2 billion. kr. This year. The comparable expenditure in 2011 was less than 3 billion. kr. Then the Prime Minister can talk from here to Christmas Eve about having room for one and the other and the third, but you cannot spend the money twice, and when you have spent the money on the asylum policy you are pursuing, among other things. by increasing the benefits so that an average refugee family gets DKK 450,000. • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year • 10,000 kroner a year a month more than when the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, it is clear that it has an impact on what kind of money it is to do well in relation to the groups in Danish society that actually have a great need. And that's what I'm trying to get the Prime Minister to deal with not the doings and the barn of other parties, but this specific challenge, which I think many Danes are preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133257	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133259	I also note that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl avoids the question of the politics of the Danish People's Party, which is the fundamental question: Why is it that the Danish People's Party's great cause, their only cause, is to support a Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who stands for zero growth in the public sector, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is against? That is a relevant question and I never manage to get an answer to it. Specifically, with regard to asylum seekers, I would say that it is a bit surprising that these figures are being included, because we have, of course, continued the asylum policy that we took over from the previous government, which was supported by the Danish People's Party. This means that we are only now making the first tightenings in 12 years. And what am I gonna say with that? I would say that the flow of refugees would have been exactly the same and would have cost exactly the same if someone else had sat in the government offices. So, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is wrong; he speaks, I think, against better knowledge, and he again uses the form in this debate to refrain from answering the important question: Why is Dansk Folkeparti's case no. In that, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is to be prime minister in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133412	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr as head of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133417	This government has almost managed to create 40,000 new jobs with the support of the SF, and this is in stark contrast to the fact that in the last few years the bourgeois people, when they were in power, just lost 200,000 jobs. That's why I think the Prime Minister lets Lars Løkke Rasmussen get away with it all too easily. When the Left proposes to do the housing job scheme and do jobs right now, I think that the Prime Minister should seize the opportunity. It is obvious that we can continue to do something to make it more attractive to renovate our home, not least in an energy-efficient direction, when, unfortunately, we continue to suffer from high unemployment. It will create jobs here and now and help support the Danish economy. That is why I fully agree with Lars Løkke Rasmussen that we need to restore the housing job scheme as soon as possible. So I really think that the Prime Minister should seize the opportunity and call Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the parties behind the growth package I for negotiations to also make clear whether the Left is willing to find the money to create a housing job scheme. Because you can look at it and choose to say that we are continuing it for two years, against a reduction in the corporate tax relief that the Left and the bourgeois parties got into the growth package I. Then we can postpone the corporate tax reductions in the same period. The two things cost pretty much the same. But where a housing job scheme creates thousands of jobs, the relief of corporate tax creates very few extra jobs. I think this is 50 pieces. That's the answer from the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government will call the conciliation parties behind the growth package I for a discussion on the reintroduction of the housing job scheme and a postponement of the corporate tax reductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133614	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133616	It is not quite true that it was the Left that brought the tax reductions into our proposal. In fact, it was something proposed by the SF and the Radicals and the Socialists when we sat in government together. So we proposed corporate tax reductions ourselves then, and it has been a very, very good idea, because it has also given confidence in Danish companies. So it was a good idea, and of course I thank SF that they were involved in it at the time. In relation to the housing job scheme, it is not something with which I or the government have an ideological problem. After all, we ourselves helped to carry it forward, and that was the right tool at the time. But time has run out of that tool now. It's expensive. It costs over 1 billion. kr. It's wrong, too. After all, it is they who make the most use of the housing job scheme. Of those who make over 700,000 kroner, four out of ten spend it. That those who make less than $50,000 are one in ten who spends it. So it's actually also a slightly off-balanced arrangement. And besides that, it doesn't give a lot of jobs. It has been calculated that with the effects that are back and forth and the dead weight that is, it is about 1,500 jobs we are talking about. I think that this is a great deal of money for not so many jobs, and it is, by the way, a scheme that falls a little off.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133733	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133735	I agree with the Prime Minister that there is a great deal of money involved. We spend that money on business tax incentives that create 50 jobs, and that is versus a housing job scheme that creates 1,500 jobs. I think 1,500 jobs are clearly better than 50 jobs. I hear the Prime Minister is very proud of the business tax relief. I know that SF was part of the growth package 1, it was one of the elements we were not very excited about, and it was not something that had grown in SF's backyard. What I can't understand is why it has to be chiseled in stone. Should we not constantly act on the challenges we face in Denmark? It has thus been a characteristic of the government while SF was sitting in it, but now it has evidently become a religion for the government to retain the corporate tax reliefs. The Prime Minister himself has also previously thought that the housing job scheme is a good idea, and the Prime Minister mentions this again. Now that the Left wants to look at it in the context of growth package 1 and when several of the parties behind growth package 1 also mention it, why will the Prime Minister not act on it and postpone the corporate tax reductions so that Danish economy can move forward more?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133840	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203133841	I am pleased that it was established that it was the SF-S-R government that proposed the corporate tax reductions. I think it would be quite wrong in the situation Denmark is facing now to raise corporate tax. I cannot imagine that this would be a good idea for the Danish economy. When we do not want to reinstate the housing job scheme, it is because it is a very expensive scheme that does not get very many jobs out of. On top of that, it has to be said that it is a system that is used by the most prosperous in our society, whereas those who do not have so much money spend it less often. And I actually find it quite difficult to understand why SF thinks it is so great a scheme when you can see that the figures are falling very precisely, which means that of those who have a salary of more than DKK 700,000, it is four out of ten who use the scheme, but if you have a more modest income of less than DKK 350,000, it is one out of ten who use the scheme. That is why we have to ask again: is this a reasonable arrangement? Is it reasonable to spend a billion dollars? kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And the attitude of the government is not a strong ideological rejection of the housing job scheme, but an indication that it is a little skewed and that that money could be spent on something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134003	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134005	I note that the Prime Minister would rather spend the money on business tax incentives that create 50 jobs than on a housing job scheme that can create 1,500 jobs. In the SF we are preoccupied with what creates jobs, and at a time when we do have a booming recovery and there are more coming into work, we are concerned with all the things we can grasp to create even more jobs. I think it is thought-provoking that the government is so firm in the meat of business tax relief rather than a housing job scheme, given that there is now an opportunity to renegotiate it. But then the SF will say that we are willing to. We are ready to negotiate with the bourgeois parties about a housing job scheme, but it must feel both green and it must deliver on energy renovations. If you look at what has so far given jobs during this government period, you see that it has been the green jobs that have been increasing. This will be a clear continuation of it, because it will create a climate gain and it will create jobs. So I would say that it is sad that the Prime Minister has so much to do with corporate tax reductions rather than creating jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134110	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134112	What may be surprising in this debate is that if this was so important to the SF, why didn't they say so in the financial law negotiations? Why wasn't it a matter for the SF to get into the finance negotiations, why wasn't that what we heard from the SF every time they went out the glass door, so that they were so sad that they couldn't get the housing job scheme? It is a little strange that, quite a short time ago, we had major financial legislation negotiations, where SF had quite a lot of influence, and if you had thought that this was the most important of all, why wasn't that what was negotiated? So it may be a little wondering at this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134147	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as Head of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134158	One of the things that filled a great deal in the financial law negotiations was the unemployment allowance issue. It actually fills something, Prime Minister, every time we meet. And I'd like to ask about that today. The reason it filled a lot and takes up a lot is, of course, that it is something that absorbs really, very many people. It means a lot to many people. And I understand that, because it's basically about security. It is about whether we can count on having something to live on, if one is so unlucky that oneself or one's colleague or one's children, or whoever it is, are hit by unemployment. Are you forced to sell the apartment or sell the colonial garden, or whatever it is, in order to make it stick together during the period when you are looking for a new job? The unemployment benefit reform, which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl made up and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was very excited about and the Radicals also voted in favour, has created really, very great insecurity in Denmark among those who are actually affected by it. And I don't know if the Prime Minister is checking his own e-mail, but at least I get a lot of inquiries from people who are suffering from this reform. But it has also created insecurity in everyone else, because people think, "Hey, what about me?" What if I'm hit by unemployment? I think there are a lot of people in this country who want to know what the different parties want with the benefit system. Well, what's to be expected? Whom should we vote for if we want more security again, more fair conditions for those affected by unemployment? I have heard the Prime Minister say that the Prime Minister wants an allowance system where fewer people lose the right to benefit, and I think that is a good thing. But I also think it is rather unclear, because what does such a benefit system look like? How do you achieve that goal? I think that both the government, the Prime Minister and the Socialists owe a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134401	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134403	It is quite right, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says, that the Danish People's Party took the lead before the elections and carried out an unemployment benefit reform which had a very harsh phase-in. It is surprising that they did, and many of us also voted against at the time. What has happened since then is that the government has taken over the unemployment benefit reform through which the Danish People's Party voted, and we have now spent a lot of money and a lot of political struggle to ensure that the many unemployed who stand to receive no benefit at all are given a helping hand. After all, with the latest Finance Act, we have secured another step towards a more gentle and more reasonable phasing-in of the unemployment benefit reform that was carried out so brutally. We have introduced a cash benefit which ensures support for up to 3 years for those who use up their benefit rights in 2015 and 2016. This gives us a cash opportunity not to find ourselves in the situation that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen writes about, namely that you are completely out of support. I am very glad that we have been able to do this together. I think it is a good result of our joint work that we now provide a cash benefit, which to the breadwinners pays $14,000. a month, and if you're not a breadwinner, you get 10,000 kroner. a month. So I have to say that we have secured the support we have been asked to give to those who use up their right to benefit. We must then create a new unemployment benefit system that can receive broad support here in the Danish Parliament, which can ensure that fewer people fall out and that we have an attractive benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134548	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134549	I would like to start by saying that I fully agree that it is very, very difficult to understand that the Danish People's Party could make such a benefit reform with such serious consequences, because even when it was put forward, it was warned, among other things. But the fact that it will be 2,000 to 4,000 falls out is not true; many more will fall out. I am also glad, Prime Minister, that we have together worked out some temporary solutions, but they are just temporary. There is no indication that these are temporary problems, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mrs Margrethe Vestager were created when they degraded the benefit system. These are permanent problems and therefore there is also a need for permanent answers. And they didn't come here now, Madam Prime Minister. I would like to know, and I think there are so many people in Denmark who also want to know: What do the Socialists think the benefit system should look like? I think the Enhedslisten thinks it should be easier, for example, to reclaim the right to benefit. We also think that it should count as hours if you are in wage subsidies. These are some concrete proposals on how we could improve the benefit system. What is the position of the Socialists? If the Socialists are given the mandate to continue as Prime Minister's Party after the elections, what can be expected?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134712	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134714	Well, we will not be able to put forward a fixed and finished daily allowance system before the elections, because what we need in Denmark is precisely that we think carefully about. We need to do the opposite of what was done last time, when, in a late night hour, it was found that the benefit system should now be changed. What I want is, after all, a modern, robust benefit system which ensures financial security and which helps to keep unemployment low, a benefit system which is desired and which is attractive for employees to insure themselves in. All this must of course be combined, and it is a complicated task. That's why we've asked a commission to look at it, so they come out with an idea of how this could be put together. I think that will be the best basis for a broad consensus on a new benefit system. What the voters can count on is that we want a new benefit system, that we do not like the benefit system we currently have, that fewer people should fall out and that more security should be created. And I have already said more than what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen can promise, for he wants to maintain the benefit system that he himself has helped to create.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134830	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203134832	I would say that I certainly do not expect the benefit system to be improved by the fact that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was given At the same time, I would like to say to the Prime Minister that the government has had a long time to think. The government says and the Prime Minister says not to rush things through like that. But after all, you have been a government for more than three years and for more than three years we have known that we are facing a huge unemployment benefit problem. I think, for example, that it is obvious that it is too difficult to reclaim the right to cash benefits. I don't think that some commission needs to sit around and consider 3 years is a long time. Secondly, the Prime Minister says that a commission has been set up, and then the Commission has to make an offer for an allowance system where fewer fall out and there is more security, but I assume that the Prime Minister can confirm that the Commission has been told: you must maintain the cuts that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen made up. If you do so, how is it that the Prime Minister imagines that the Commission will come up with something that will solve the problems, that is, if you say that the cuts made by the right wing must be maintained? I would like to ask the Prime Minister to reconsider whether it would not be most fair to the electorate if it would not be most democratic to put forward openly what the Social Democratic attitude to the unemployment benefit system is. I think you've had quite a long time to think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135000	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135002	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen makes it almost as if we have not done anything in this matter as if we have taken the benefit system that we inherited from Mr Schmidt. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and others and just didn't do anything. But we have together spent quite a lot of money and a lot of political thought on creating a system, so that there was a more gentle phasing-in of the unemployment benefit reform which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stood for. After all, we have just ensured that there is a more reasonable phasing-in. We have secured a cash benefit which ensures that there is support too, and the most important thing for the people who are affected is that they will not have to leave house and home, and that they know what they have to count on in cash in relation to the situation in which they find themselves. That must and must be the most important thing. The next thing is that we will have a new benefit system, and Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is right there, that we can be absolutely sure that what we do if we get a majority after the next elections will be fairer, more reasonable than what Mr Schmidt-Nielsen has done. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will lead. Thank you for being so clear. I think that's important. But we will not do the same as we did last time, when we quickly created a benefit system which turned out not to last. On the contrary, as we have done, we will ask a commission to think about this, to make a good offer and then to take the debate with all the parties of the Folketing afterwards. What we are after is a robust and durable system, and that is why the time in this case is not to lay down very black and white positions, but rather to respect the process we have now organised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135133	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen as leader of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135141	Thank you. After all, there has been a demand that there should be some concrete proposals for what one would like to do with Denmark, and I can at least say that we in the Liberal Alliance have calculated that in the Ministry of Finance. We have put forward our proposals, and this has been calculated according to what the Minister of Finance calls common methods of calculation, which the Minister of Finance accepts is the way to calculate and which, of course, showed that the Socialists last time went to the polls at a level with a deficit of between 20 and 40 billion. kr. a year. The Minister of Finance has acknowledged that this was the subject of the election, but fortunately we came to a better opinion. Let us now imagine that we have implemented the full plan of the Liberal Alliance and that the results will turn out to be, as the Minister of Finance has now written in his reply that they will be: everyone in work has received a tax relief of DKK 20,000. GDP has grown by over 100 billion per year. kr.; there are 250,000 more employees in the private sector; there is the same level of service in the public sector as today; there is no top tax; corporation tax is halved. In addition, we can now afford to spend 800 million. kr. extra a year for free basic research; we in Denmark have the most far-reaching treatment guarantee throughout the EU • you can choose any hospital throughout the EU; and SU recipients can earn whatever they want, next to it without being set off against it. The price for this is that Denmark falls from being the fourth most equal society in the world to being the eighth most equal society in the world. Now I would like to hear the Prime Minister: Will the Social Democratic Party with the Prime Minister of that time of course be the leader of the opposition in that case go to the polls to raise the tax for the lowest-paid by DKK 20,000. a year, to reinstate top tax, to double corporation tax and remove the extra money for free research? Will you go to the polls to remove all these good things again, restore all the taxes, so that Denmark can lift itself from being the eighth most equal society in the world to being the fourth most equal society in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135359	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135401	We are now playing a game in which the bourgeois opposition has won the four-year elections, and I am then asked what I will go to the polls at that time. Excuse me, sir. Anders Samuelsen, but I don't want to go into that thinking... it's gonna be just a tooth too imaginative and a little weird. What is also too imaginative is the policy of the Liberal Alliance. Because there is surely not a single person in this society who believes that one can significantly lower taxes, that one can lay down one in ten positions in the public sector, which is what the Liberal Alliance is proposing, and that Denmark will then be, just as it is today, with the same good public service, with equal opportunities for equality and redistribution and with the same opportunities for not charging users when we meet the public sector. The truth about the policy of the Liberal Alliance is that it is an enormous experiment that will draw Denmark away from the foundation of equality and solidarity that we know and that the vast majority of Danes are happy about. So you can be absolutely sure that the government, both before and after the elections, whatever position we are in, will be opposed to experimenting with what is at the heart of Denmark, namely our solidarity and equality, and that is what the Liberal Alliance wants so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135522	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135525	Does this mean that the Prime Minister is opposed to the results and calculations presented by the Ministry of Finance? For all of this is not my claim; it is in the figures and the calculations that we have made in the Ministry of Finance the most objective, one has to assume that calculations can be made in this country. Does the Prime Minister disapprove of what is going on in the Ministry of Finance? Does the Prime Minister simply not believe in the Ministry of Finance, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135553	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135556	Of course I am behind the calculations made in the Ministry of Finance. I think it is very good that calculations have been made. On the whole, I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance for putting forward their policy. I wish that more parties in the opposition would do that, both in the Danish People's Party and in the Left. It would be fantastic if they put forward their policy, because then they could discuss it with each other. What surprises me at the Liberal Alliance is that they really want to convince the Danes that you can have 90,000 fewer employees in the public sector and that that means nothing. Instead of messing with things, it would suit the Liberal Alliance to say honestly to the Danes that if there are 90,000 • almost every tenth • fewer employees in the public sector, it is of course important for what service citizens receive. Say things the way they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135641	Sir. Anders Samuelsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135644	Well, again, I just have to say that we're not the ones who say that. It is the government's own commission, the Commission which has been set up to look at whether the public sector can be made more efficient, which says that there is this potential. It's not something we made up. It's the government's own commission that made it up. The Prime Minister must decide whether or not to believe in his own figures. If the Prime Minister believes in his own figures, his own commissions, her own Ministry of Finance, then she just has to acknowledge that this is what can be done. I understand that the Prime Minister feels very pressured by this. For unlike the government, which has given the Danes a fall in gross domestic product, which corresponds to the fact that we have all become 5,000 kroner poorer under the Prime Minister's leadership, we show that we can create massive increases in employment; that we can give the Danes a minimum of 20,000 DKK. a year in relief on the treasure. That's uncomfortable for the Prime Minister, I understand. So it's a fatamorgana? Is this an experiment? I have taken this overview with In Sweden in five years it has been possible to have 200,000 moved from passive support to employment. So no, Prime Minister, this is not an experiment, this has been tested. And we're based on the Prime Minister's own figures, the Commission's own figures, the Ministry of Finance. Admit it!
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135813	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135815	I don't feel pressured by the Liberal Alliance or their numbers at all. But I think it is a pity that the Liberal Alliance is not telling the truth to the citizens. As far as an efficient public sector is concerned, it is true that the government has an ambition to make the public sector more efficient for 12 billion. kr. But there is still some way from the 12 billion. kr., as the government proposes in our 2020 plan, up to the 80 billion. kr., as the Liberal Alliance suggests. It's pretty far up there. Sir. Anders Samuelsen has to explain for himself what you are in favour of, but what I do not think is right is that you try to tell the Danish citizens that we can do without one in ten in the public sector and that this does not affect the service that citizens receive. I think it's fair that you want lower taxes. I think it is fair to want a public sector that provides less service. What I don't think is quite fair is that you don't tell the Danes straight.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135919	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203135927	I noticed that the Prime Minister said that the most important thing is to avoid people going from house to home. Now I've noticed that the Prime Minister likes to be out in the real world. We have heard about Emil in primary school, who now has to be drawn on a somewhat longer school day and homework cafes that are not good and so on, and we have also seen that the Prime Minister has been to Bilka. So I would also like to draw a few examples from the real world. I would like to tell the Prime Minister about Anne-Dorthe, who is divorced single mother, living alone with her two children of 10 and 12 years of age and who is now being hit by the increasing ground debt. 12,000 kroner. will be paid now, and by 2020 it will be as high as DKK 45,000. Even though this single mother has a tight budget, even though she has a tenant to live in her house, she will not be able to stay in that house. So may I just ask the Prime Minister whether it has become quite normal social democratic policy to send ordinary families to the streets, and does the Prime Minister think it is fair that the single mother should now try to sell the children's childhood home?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140051	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140054	I understand that there are some who are frustrated when they are in a difficult economic situation. I can understand that. But with regard to the root cause, which I understand is very, very important for the Conservatives to discuss it, it is so that while Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has said that he will only be Prime Minister if the housing job scheme is introduced, then the Conservatives have suggested that they will only be involved in anything if the ground blame is frozen. There I have to say, first of all: there are basically the same rules today as when we had a government with the Left and the Conservatives. After all, this rule has just continued the ceiling that V and K had imposed on the ground debt, which means that without the ceiling that we have continued, the basic debt would rise much more than it does in these years. Secondly, it is of course essential to say that it costs something. It will cost a lot of money to freeze the ground debt. I also note that the Left has failed to agree to this idea, because they can see that in addition to all the other loose promises they have made to the Danes, 31⁄2 billion will. kr. be rather difficult to find. So it costs. And the Conservative People's Party still owes it to the electorate to explain where it is to be found the 31⁄2 billion. kr., when you want to freeze the ground debt. So I can easily understand that there are some who are frustrated and sad. I just have to say very clearly: we are basically pursuing the rules that we inherited from the previous government. We maintain the ceiling on the ground, and the Conservative People's Party needs to explain where the money is to come from. Where's the 31⁄2 billion? kr. From?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140240	May I have some more quiet in the Chamber, please? I think we owe it to each other that this debate can be conducted without the noise level that is now in place. Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140250	It seems quite strange that the Prime Minister is now beginning to ask us questions about our plan, which has just been calculated over in the Ministry of Finance. After all, the rapporteur's questions have been put to that plan, and in that plan we will be able to see that we want to freeze the ground blame. The Prime Minister must be aware of what her colleague, the Minister for Finance, is doing. Because what has been the case with the ground blame is that it has increased so much in recent years and will continue to do so in the future. Having said that, we can take another example: Kirsten, 75 years old, retired schoolteacher, widow and live in his own house, and got a visit from SKAT, who came to evaluate this house. That visit was fatal because it meant that SKAT estimated that the house just rose 92 percent. in value. Kirsten has paid out her house, and she has saved up for her old age, yes, she had actually expected that she could stay there until one day she is not here anymore. She is now being forced to sell her house because the government and the Socialists do not put an end to the fundamental increases in the debt which are so serious. I just do not understand why it is that the Socialists do not recognise that, with the policy they are pursuing, they are just sending people on the streets and putting them out of the house and home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140417	I would like to suggest that the Members who speak to each other should now sit down in their seats. Then they'll be ready to vote when we're done. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140425	I certainly understand that the Conservative People's Party wants to freeze the ground blame. I have also noticed that neither the Left nor the Danish People's Party have agreed to this idea, because they can see that the Conservatives and Liberals, who want to freeze the ground blame, have a huge problem. For there must be 3.5 billion. kr. to finance it, and the simple question to Mr. Søren Pape or to Mrs Mai Mercado is: where should the money come from? How to find the 3.5 billion. kr.? That's kind of what I was asking, and I haven't gotten any smarter in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140500	Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado, the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140502	Well questions and questions; the Prime Minister can just pick up the phone and call her colleague over at the Ministry of Finance, and then she will just be able to hear how the 2020 plan is screwed up. After all, as a party we have delivered a 2020 plan, which the Ministry of Finance has even calculated, so it would be easier to call the Ministry of Finance instead of the Prime Minister asking me to hand over that plan. In addition to pensioners and single parents, there are also a great many families of children who have bought housing, and some families of children have even bought housing up to the crisis, where it was the most expensive. They've been counting on it, taking a mortgage and thinking that now they got the budgets right. They just hadn't taken into account the flight of sky that the ground guilt has taken. Is it fair to the families of children and to all the other families who are technically insolvent? And did the Prime Minister really mean it when she was just saying to the Enhedsliste that the most important thing is to avoid people going from house to home? How can it be said with credibility in the voice when the root cause roars away as it does?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140607	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140609	I think it is very good that we have continued with the ceiling that is above the ground, and I do not think that many people are going to change that. However, I find it a little strange that Mrs Mai Mercado is almost insulted that I am asking for an explanation of where the money should come from, and that has been the hallmark of the whole debate today: every time I ask either the Liberal Alliance or the Danish People's Party or the Left or now also the Conservatives, if they could just explain a little about their own policy, I am not hearing anyone say thank you or anything about how nice it is that the Prime Minister wants to hear about their policy. I'm told that I'm going to ask you about that in the Ministry of Finance. Why don't you explain your own policy? 2015 is an election year, and in an election year it is not unreasonable for us to stand in Parliament and discuss politics. The government is putting its policy openly and honestly forward for debate and adoption in the Parliamentary Assembly. We have an opposition of four parties with a policy of guessing where the money will come from, who will finance the tax cuts, and how zero growth is linked. That is the conclusion of today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140709	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado and thank you to the Prime Minister. We've finished Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140715	Today there are the following reviews: Per Clausen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 65 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on economic aid to landowners in connection with municipal orders for the separation of rainwater and waste water). Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF) and others.: Question No. F 18 (What can the Ministers state about the status of government plans to introduce a tax on household advertising, and will the Ministers elaborate on the socio-economic consequences of such a tax compared with the low environmental impact of the tax?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140742	Tom Behnke (KF) has applied for leave from 3 February 2015 due to illness. If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member of the Folketing. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140804	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Conservative People's Party in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Per Løkken, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 3 February 2015 on the occasion of Tom Behnke's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that she does not wish to take up her leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140835	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 109 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203140858	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 20 by Per Clausen (EL), Kim Andersen (V), Thomas Jensen (S), Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), Ida Auken (RV), Sanne Rubinke (SF), Brian Mikkelsen (KF) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), and a vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 107 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 21 by Joachim B. Olsen (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203141001	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate on the amendments and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203141028	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by another minority (LA), and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 17 votes (DF and LA), 92 abstentions (V, S, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), 0 abstentions. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minority, lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203141110	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203141130	Thank you. The number of asylum seekers who have applied for Denmark has increased year by year, from 3,800 in 2011 to just under 15,000 last year, i.e. in the period since the government took office. The highest number of asylum seekers registered in Denmark for more than 15 years has brought enormous pressure to bear on the asylum system, the municipalities and, above all, the taxpayers, who will be able to look forward to an additional bill of more than 4 billion next year alone. kr. as a result of the increased influx. In the view of the Left, the government has consistently ignored, at least during the parliamentary term, the many warnings that immigration policy has once again come out of control under a social democratic government. The government has also rejected all proposals for necessary tightening of the immigration policy with a systematic and enthusiasm that is surpassed only by the government's seemingly endless efforts to bring about new relaxations that have made it more attractive to apply to Denmark as asylum seekers. Part of the increase in the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark can be explained in part by an increasing number of asylum seekers in Europe and in the rest of the world, but also in part. In fact, we have had a number of Socialist Ministers of Justice with the Danish Parliament to decide that there is so-called asylum shopping in Europe and that asylum seekers look at the overall situation when they assess where they are going. It is a fact that the government's relaxations have meant that conditions in Denmark have become significantly more attractive. The abolition of the start-up aid alone, the ceiling on cash benefits and the principle of child benefit have meant that a refugee family with three children today receives a total of more than DKr 450,000. a year. That's $10,000. more per month than in 2011. Nevertheless, the government claims that the many facilitations and improvement of conditions have no bearing on the increasing number of asylum seekers. It is quite simply incomprehensible to the Left how the government, on the one hand, can recognise that asylum shopping is taking place in Europe and, on the other hand, denies that a monthly increase in the level of benefits of DKK 10,000. is of any significance at all. There are, of course, a number of other facilitations, such as the possibility of living and working outside asylum centres, the abolition of the principle of income for children's money, etc.; all things that have made it more attractive to choose Denmark as asylum destination. Recently, we have seen that the governing parties have supported the SF's proposal that asylum seekers should be allowed to work even before they have completed their asylum application if they come from Syria. These are things that will attract an increased number of asylum seekers. As it was clear to the government over the summer that the situation was out of control, the government proposed to introduce a new temporary status for refugees who had fled from general conditions in the country of origin and thus no longer fulfilled the conditions of the refugee convention. When the then Minister for Justice and the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs presented the bill, it was stated that the majority of asylum seekers coming to Denmark from Syria would be included and that no interference would be made with the right to family reunification. Both things have since turned out to be wrong, as can be seen from a number of answers to questions to this bill. The government has then presented the Danish Parliament with this bill, which contains a new legal refugee category and a change in the possibility of family reunification for refugees covered by this new category. However, after the draft law has been examined, it is unclear what the real purpose of the proposal is, in addition to suggesting an impression of a powerful government. The Left wishes to contribute constructively to limiting the influx of asylum to Denmark, but more importantly, the Folketing legislates on a factual and professionally sound basis, and despite many questions and consultations, the government has not explained the implications of the bill. It is neither in relation to whether the bill effectively restricts the influx of asylum seekers, nor what the financial consequences of the proposal are, therefore, how to pay the bill or how the government will ensure that asylum seekers can be repatriated in a compulsory manner, as the proposal is based on. The Government points out that this new legal refugee category, which is actually targeted at Syrian asylum seekers, will provide a more temporary residence permit, initially limited to one year. The change must lead to the repatriation of refugees once the worst riots are over, as the Prime Minister said in his opening speech. Thus, the Prime Minister creates the impression that Syrian asylum seekers should only be in Denmark for a very short time. This is reinforced by the Social Democratic Foreign Affairs rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann, who says that Denmark can send Syrians back to peaceful pockets in Syria. However, it seems to have made little impression on the Deputy Prime Minister, who has emphasised that no one believes that Syrian refugees coming to Denmark can return home within a short period of time. It is also unclear whether the new category will actually extend the refugee concept when it is applied in practice, and the Left considers it unsatisfactory that the Minister for Justice will not explain during the legislative proposal's consideration the Government's expectation of how many are covered by the proposal, particularly since the government had no difficulty in telling the public that most asylum seekers would be included in the proposal. However, it is clear that the proposal will in all likelihood include a very small group of asylum seekers and thus have a quite limited effect. The Left wants a strict immigration policy that can stem the massive influx of asylum seekers who have followed in the wake of the government's easing. The Left considers that the present proposal is completely inadequate in a situation of the highest number of asylum seekers for 15 years, and will therefore propose on an ongoing basis a large number of restrictions on immigration policy to make it less attractive to choose Denmark as an asylum destination. The government has rejected these proposals, and the Left finds it bizarre that, on the one hand, the government is defending the right of refugees to full cash assistance from the first day, while, on the other hand, there are no problems with interfering with the right of asylum seekers to family life. It is now clear that the Government, despite assurances of the opposite, at least in the view of the Left, does not have the will or the ability to pursue a strict immigration policy and that this bill is more motivated by the desire to act than by the desire to implement real austerity measures that can effectively stem the number of asylum seekers. It is the Left's expectation that the bill will have a very limited effect and that the number of refugees returned will not increase significantly as a result of the bill. Therefore, once again, the government is putting the people in a position to expect something which, after the elections, the government cannot or will not be able to deliver. However, the present draft law recognizes at least a formal tightening for a small group of asylum seekers, and it cannot be ruled out that failure to adopt will have an impact on the influx to Denmark. In this regard, the Left notes that the government has emphasised that the draft law may already have had an impact on the influx by virtue of the signal value. However, in our view it is almost utopian to believe that the signal value of it will have the same meaning as the signal value of the government's over 30 concessions. The Left also notes that the government categorically refuses to contribute to real and effective tightening of foreign policy, which is why this bill must be regarded as the best and only achievable in the current parliamentary situation until we have a parliamentary election in which the electorate can decide who should have the power of government. Against this background, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal for a third reading here today. I have to say that there has been some confusion about the additional report submitted by the Danish Parliament, and there is a majority of parties that have agreed to a text of the report on the interpretation of Denmark's international obligations. I have to say that the part of the contribution of the report that the Left has agreed to concerns only access to family reunification. I have to say that when I read it, I find it difficult to understand the concern that some people have, but I have to say here for the sake of good order that what is the position of the Left in this matter and that what is the case is what is being said here in the Parliament's Chair, and that is that the additional report is the part that deals with our international obligations. Then there should be clarity about that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142004	Then there are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142015	- Sir... Karsten Lauritzen make a suggestion as to how the Left itself will limit the possibilities of obtaining asylum in Denmark • just one bid?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142023	We want to reduce the cash benefits granted to asylum seekers and, among other things, we want to reduce them. has made a family of recognized asylum seekers • a mother and a father and three children • receive 10,000 kr. more a month, a total of DKK 450,000. a year than they did when we were in government. We want to roll that back and it will have a significant impact on the influx to Denmark. It will be a tightening up compared to how many will choose Denmark as an asylum destination. So it was one concrete proposal • we have many more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142100	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142103	That was not an answer to my question at all. I asked if the Left could make a bid • just one bid • on how the Left would limit the possibilities of obtaining asylum in Denmark. Even in the case of the Left, there is not even one proposal on how to limit the possibility of obtaining asylum in Denmark. So I now give the rapporteur of the Left the opportunity to answer here from the platform after a very, very long speech: can the Left make one suggestion as to how the party will limit the possibilities of obtaining asylum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142132	I can say very clearly that something can be done in relation to how attractive it is to choose Denmark as an asylum destination. There we have a large number of proposals. And it is true that we have not put forward concrete proposals on what we are going to do in relation to the asylum rules, that is to say when asylum can be obtained, but we are willing to do so, and we are working on that. And I am sure that Mrs Trine Bramsen will find that the policy of the Left is clear in that area as we approach a parliamentary election and, hopefully, when we have won a parliamentary election. And otherwise I can tell Mrs Trine Bramsen that we in the Left have our good friends in the Danish People's Party, and I am sure they have plenty of suggestions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142209	Sir. Troels Ravn for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142214	The fact is that the Left has repeatedly blocked the government's ability to tighten the asylum rules, and during the legislative process the Left has been the instigator of a virtually bizarre process. Almost 200 questions have been put to the bill; four consultations have been held; there has been an internal expert meeting, etc. etc. And the fact is that instead of taking this matter seriously and seriously, the Left has been campaigning for the bill, although among other things. The Prime Minister's candidate for the Left has demanded swift action. So my question is really about the position of the Left, i.e. whether the Left believes that there is no need for rapid action in relation to the challenges of the increase in the number of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142313	To be honest, I think it is a bit bizarre, and I would not say that it is a bullying act, but at least Mr Tugendhat is trying to do so. Troels Ravn, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy, teased the Left with the fact that it has been thorough with the legislative process, that critical questions have been raised. I have to say that we have done so because there are some who have rightly asked what this bill is about, what it is going to mean, and when we have asked the government, we have not received an answer. That is why we have asked over and over again, and it then accumulates to small 200 answers. The government won't say if this will affect the influx. The government won't tell you how many this affects. So I can say to Mr. Knox. Troels Ravn, that I really think that the criticism of some people who are doing what they are elected to do, namely to control the legislation that the government brings in, is such a bit inexpensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142403	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142406	Let us agree that bullying is true, that serious committee work is in and that the Left has repeatedly blocked the government's ability to tighten asylum rules. So I would just like to ask here: can the rapporteur confirm that the asylum restrictions would have been adopted earlier if it were not for the Left Act in dealing with the bill, including denying the possibility of urgent procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142440	Well, sir. Troels Ravn says that the Left has repeatedly blocked the government's asylum restrictions. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the government has only had one proposal which is such a micro-tightening, and that is this proposal. So it is true that we have pushed the time for dealing with this, but what we have got out of asking so many times is of course, and I actually know that this is not going to delay the time for dealing with these asylum applications, because at the moment it is the case that the police have not even finished conducting asylum hearings. So even if this proposal had been adopted before Christmas, it really would not have led to a tightening of the asylum rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142521	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142526	Thank you. I mean, it doesn't surprise me, and it doesn't surprise those who listen to this debate either, when Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says that the Left does not actually have a policy on asylum rules. Because that's what I heard, sir. Karsten Lauritzen said in her reply to Mrs Trine Bramsen, precisely: No, we do not have a policy at the moment, but we are considering getting one. And I can understand that, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, that it certainly requires that you need the help of your friends in the Danish People's Party to be able to formulate such a policy. - Sir... Karsten Lauritzen confirm that the Left has no policy on asylum rules, as he said to Mrs Trine Bramsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142616	I think my answer to Mrs Trine Bramsen was an attempt to be a little funny. It is not always going well; I could hear that nobody was laughing in the Chamber. However, I can say in more detail to Mrs Mette Reissmann that the Left has a clear policy. You can read it in our aliens' initiative, Denmark for those who can and will. It's about making Denmark less attractive as an asylum destination, and then I say it's something new, and that's something to be welcomed in the Social Democratic Party that we will also be willing to look at the rules of who can grant asylum. I have actually pressed for us to have an investigation into why some asylum seekers under the same international rules are granted asylum in Sweden, but not in Denmark, and vice versa, so that we can see if we in Denmark have the most restrictive practice. That is what I want, so it is a concrete offer. But we believe most in fact that if we are to seriously stop the influx to Denmark, we must roll back the improvements in terms made by the government and the improvements in terms that result in an asylum seeker's family getting DKK 10,000. more a month, 450,000 kroner. per year, in public aid. It attracts asylum seekers as much as the rules for those who receive asylum do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142724	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142727	Well, sir. Karsten Lauritzen used before the word that it was a microstring. In the past, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen also talked about that it is a very small tightening. And yet Mr. Karsten Lauritzen in the same moment in his very long speech that it is a microstring with a yet recognized great effect. It's just gotta remind Mr. Simpson. Karsten Lauritzen says that size rarely has anything to do with the effect, and Mr. Karsten Lauritzen at this point too. I think I will come back to precisely the lack of proposals on asylum restrictions in the Left's presentation. There is no proposal on asylum restrictions, so please put forward a plan. Well, that is just what I would like to ask for, because we have not seen a plan for how the Left in the asylum rules will contain an increasing number of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142825	I can say very clearly to Mrs Mette Reissmann that we do not believe, and it should also have been very clear from my rapporteur's speech, that the government's proposal does a great deal. I think what I said, and you can go in and hear it afterwards, was that you couldn't rule out that it has a signal value. I do not think it is very big, and I think I also said very clearly that the many reductions made by the government, which have been sustained over three years, in terms of terms improvements, cannot be offset at all by the signal value of this little tightening. If you look at the figures and now let us look at them, you can see that in the third quarter of last year, and this is the latest figures from Eurostat, Denmark was the country in the EU that received the second most asylum seekers per year. citizen. It is, of course, with everything I can pattern, the proof that relaxing as much as the government has done leads to a significantly greater influx of asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142920	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then I assume that it is the rapporteurs who have expressly signed up for the floor. The next one I have noted is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203142939	We have the biggest refugee disaster since World War II, and our answer to that is this bill. This is a legislative proposal which, in practice, allows asylum seekers to have family reunification after one year, because one-year residence permits will be used. When you look at how we have used the 2-year residence permits, which are already in our legislation, you see that they are not very much used. If you look at how many people we have actually managed to send home in recent years, you see a big round zero. There has simply not been a single time when anyone has been able to return to their country of origin. And no one believes that, for example. peace in Syria within one year. So what is left of the government's bill here is that one tightens the family reunification rules for me to look completely for no reason. The only thing this bill will bring about is that children and women will typically be hanging back in camps in the vicinity or in war zones. We do not think we can be familiar with this, and in the SF we will not be involved in breaking up families in this way. Those who get hit by this are, according to Everything, 96 percent.About half of them are children under 12 years of age. We in the SF do not think this is fair and that is why we are voting against this proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203143137	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203143145	As the Prime Minister of the country said at the opening of Parliament, we have not seen since World War II that so many people are forced to flee. A great many refugees, as you know, come from Syria. They're on the run from the murders and rapes of the Islamic State. The way in which the Danish Government chooses to respond to this situation, that is to say that historically many people are forced to flee, is by depriving children of something as fundamental as the right to live with their parents, that is, something that has been a basic principle of Danish refugee policy and well in Danish politics for decades at all, namely that we do not help to divide families. But that's what you do with this bill. You help to tear families apart. And then, over and over again, Socialists have told me that I have to understand that war tears families apart. Well, I know war does. It's terrible, it's terrible, it's war tearing families apart. But why should we, why should Denmark, why should a social democratic government contribute to this division? This bill is about ensuring that children and spouses are not taken to safety with their father, their parents, their husband here in Denmark as quickly as possible. No, you have to sit for a year, often it will be in Syria, and wait. Then I have been told that it is a matter of giving a respite to the municipalities. I fully recognise that it is a great task for the municipalities to accept refugees. Many come from a culture that is very different from the Danish one. Some have very violent war traumas in their luggage. We must do everything we can to help the municipalities. But what is it that the municipalities get from one year before the children can get to safety? Who's gonna get anything out of this? For there is no indication that there will be peace and happiness in Syria within one year. That means these kids are allowed to come here, but not until after 1 year. Let us hope that nothing has happened to the children or single women left behind in the meantime, because that is a real danger. And in terms of integration, if you place a refugee in Denmark and say: It is so dangerous for you, you are in danger, your life is in danger, you are allowed to get protection here in Denmark, but you can sit and wait a whole year for you to get your loved ones safe. Is that good for integration? It's not. Can you concentrate on learning a new language and becoming part of a new society if you sit and wonder if your children are being killed? You can't do that. No one gets anything out of the fact that it has to be 1 year before these spouses can get to safety, and before these children can get to safety with their parents here in Denmark. I have to say that I find it incomprehensible that a social democratic government, even with the participation of the Radicals, should come up with a bill which basically violates something as fundamental as the unity of the family, as the right of children to live with their parents. And again, I know you're all saying that war is tearing families apart. That is correct, but why do I see that it is correct, yes, war divides families up • should the Danish government contribute to it? That's what's happening with this bill. I would like to say that a supplementary report has been drawn up in which a majority outside the government takes the criticism of the Institute of Human Rights seriously, a majority consisting of the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance, a representative from the Faroe Islands and, incidentally, Mr. Uffe Elbæk. The representative from the Faroe Islands is, of course, sir. Edmund Joensen. A majority outside the government instructs the government to administer in accordance with human rights. It's when it comes to family reunification. To think that it is the Left that we must go to if we want to be sure that the Danish law on foreigners, that the way we treat refugees, is in accordance with our human rights obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203143608	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203143625	Thank you. I would like to do two things now. First of all, I would like to make a more general political comment on the general debate on asylum, which has also been raised here at the third reading, and then I would like to make a few more specific comments on the additional report which has been submitted by the committee before the third reading. Well, what kind of legislation are we dealing with today, and what kind of situation are we dealing with in the world around us? Sometimes, when you listen to the asylum discussion in Denmark, you would think that we are disconnected from the rest of the world. We're not, we're not, it's never gonna happen. We are in the situation right now that we have one of the worst refugee crises since the period right after the Second World War. Not since then have more people been on the run; not least the disastrous situation in the Middle East, in Syria and Iraq have killed thousands of people and sent even more people to flee. The vast majority of the people who are on the run live in camps in the vicinity. Some come to the promised Europe, and some also reach the Danish border. Our task as a country and as a people will always be international obligations or not to provide people with the protection they need. Having said that, however, we also need to make things work in Denmark, and that is why the government has sought to put forward a proposal in the area of asylum, which hits the balance point we think is the right one, where we give people the protection they need because of war and strife, but at the same time we ensure that the asylum mission that we then face is one that we can handle in the country's municipalities as a population and as a society and as a whole. In fact, no matter how things develop in specific conflicts, I think that it makes very good sense to work with a concept of temporary nature in the area of refugees. Indeed, I believe that the vast majority of people fleeing, often by tyrannical leaders or rebel movements or terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State, would like to return, that they would like to return to the environment from which they come, to resume their family life, to resume their working lives, to live the life they were doing before others created strife in their lives. Most of the refugees want to return, and I think it is quite right that the draft law here, too, as a society, makes it clear that when things improve, for example in Syria and Iraq, the people who have been sent on the run can return. Is it easy to regulate in the area of asylum? No, it is not, and sometimes, when you hear not least bourgeois politicians speak out, you'd think it was easy. Of course it's not. These are human destinies we're dealing with. It is people who need our protection. We must do that to them, but we must do it wisely. That is what the draft law here expresses, I think. Shortly before the third reading, the committee has submitted a supplementary report. The report reveals a slightly alternative majority at least, and it is probably important for me to make one thing quite clear from the platform today. The comments made by the majority of the committee will not be binding on the immigration authorities if the draft law is adopted today by the majority that the report has indicated that they intend to vote in favour of the draft law. The law will therefore not be administered in accordance with the opinion expressed in the opinion, and this is because the majority that emerges in the report is not the majority in favour of the bill, since SF and Enhedslisten are voting against the bill. As the government assesses the opinions and statements contained in the report, there is a risk that the words will extend the area in which family reunification is to be granted within the first year, and this can be understood, according to the wording here, as an implementation of the right of asylum, even if you are abroad, if you have a link with Denmark. I have to understand the rapporteur's speech today by the rapporteur of the Left so that that is not the intention of the supplementary report. I am pleased about that, but I also think it is important to clarify that it must be the majority who vote in favour of the legislative proposal that defines the content of the legislative proposal. Then why this misunderstanding, or why this discussion? Under the government's bill, it is family life under Article 8 of the European Commission on Human Rights that is protected. However, following the comments made in the supplementary report, it is crucial whether the applicant, who is abroad, has a need for protection. So what it is that does, if you can have a family reunification, is reversed if you read what the Ministry of Justice reads the wording. It is, of course, important to distinguish family reunification from access to asylum, and it is against this background that the government and government parties cannot support the statements made in the supplementary report. Just to repeat myself, I would like to say that this will not be part of the basis on which the law is to be administered, and I understand from the Left that this is not the intention of the words either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144217	Mr President, first of all, there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144226	Thank you. When it is expected that up to 12 000 people will be granted a residence permit in the area of asylum this year, and for that it is possible to add family reunifications, which come on top of that, does the Minister not think that this bill is inadequate? What really is the reason why the government, as I understand it, does not want to tighten up further? For it is clear that with a legislative proposal that only affects a minority, it will mean " as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also mentioned during the Question Time to the Prime Minister that the cost of this area will rise, and they are already extremely high; it will mean lots of integration problems and problems in finding apartments, homes, for people in the municipalities. So what exactly is the government's justification for not wanting to tighten up further than what has been proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144305	I have no doubt that the large increase in the number of asylum seekers we have seen, not least in the summer of 2014, will present quite major challenges. At the same time, however, it goes without saying that Denmark must, of course, meet our human commitments, paragraph 2, meet our international commitments, paragraph 3, help to carry out a task which I hope most of the world would like to take part in. And it is clear that when we want to comply with our international obligations, there are also limits to how far we want to go in tightening up the asylum area. What we are doing with the bill here is an expression, I think, of the right balance in which, on the one hand, we provide people with the protection they need and claim, and, on the other hand, we work with a more temporary concept so that more people can return to their home country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144353	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144356	Yes, but the government and the Minister have themselves indicated in the Integration Committee that there is an opportunity to tighten up further, including within the framework of international commitments. So when the government does not want it, it is because the political will is not there. What is, for example, what is going on here? the reason why these changes, i.e. that you get a residence permit for one year and are not allowed to pick up the family in that year, should apply only to a small part of those who come to Denmark and ask for asylum? Because if you can implement it for a small part, you can also implement it for everyone. So what does the Minister of Justice say about taking the government's bill and spreading it out, so it's all for everyone? Because if this is in line with international obligations in the case of a minority, then it must also be in the case of a majority. So in relation to the point of saying that when you do not go any further, because you must not do so in relation to the international commitments, I would say that I know that there are some people in here who may take those commitments a little more seriously than the Danish People's Party, but my point is, as such, just that when the minister does not go any further, it is because there is no political will to go any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144452	I think it is very important in the area of refugees to insist that there may be different reasons why people are sent on the run and that, of course, there are differences between people who are individually persecuted because of their religion, their political beliefs, their political affiliation or other matters in their private lives, and then people who are sent on the run by what can be called more general conditions in their country of origin, such as a civil war or some other kind of conflict. It is not because we have to underestimate the consequences of the conflict and its victims, but because the duration of the protection needs that you can have may vary depending on whether you are individually persecuted because, for example, you are a dissident or you are fleeing from a condition that hopefully improves. And that is one of the distinctions that lies in the draft law here, as the questioner knows very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144540	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144546	Thank you. I can confirm the Minister's statement. I think I made it quite clear in my rapporteur's speech that the part of the supplementary report which the Left supports is only about family reunification and does not extend anything at all. These are political remarks, which is why I find it quite difficult to follow the Minister's concerns and arguments, but we will have to clarify that afterwards. I can say very clearly that what we have agreed to is only family reunification, and the Minister has understood that correctly. What I would like to ask the Minister concerns the debate that we had in the past, where there were several Social Democrats who asked me whether it was not true that the Left did not put forward proposals to restrict access to asylum in Denmark. I would like to ask the Minister if he can confirm that the proposal here as such does not in any way restrict access to asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144644	In other words, what the proposal does and hopefully it will soon be adopted so that it can also work; we have been slightly delayed because the Folketing would not help to deal with the proposal as proposed by the government as a matter of urgency is that a temporary concept should be introduced in the case of people who are not individually persecuted. This does not mean that you cannot come here and get our protection if you have a need for this, but it means that we are working on a temporary concept, which is why you cannot expect to have protection for longer than you really need. I actually think that makes quite a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144723	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144726	Thank you. I ask because we have also asked in writing, and I think it is a little strange that the Socialists are boasting that this restricts access to asylum in Denmark when the truth is that you touch yet another condition. One thing is that you have relaxed in a wide range of areas, but here you then tighten up the conditions of access to family reunification. So it is not a question of • and I am glad that the Minister's statement states that in any way the right to asylum is restricted in Denmark. Perhaps I think that the Socialists' argument is a bit of a double standard, and I think that the Minister for Justice should acknowledge that here, and perhaps she should ask her fellow party members not to blame the Left for something that the Social Democrats and the government themselves are guilty of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144807	I actually think the Socialist rapporteur is just wondering why perhaps the Left has had a little difficulty finding his legs in relation to the bill here. But there is no reason to unfold that, because now the Left is voting in favour of the proposal, and I actually expected that to happen all the way. Then I would like to say that I think that there are generally plenty of competitions in Denmark and in the rest of the world, and I do not think we need to compete in the area of asylum. I think that what Denmark and asylum seekers need is coherence and realistic, concrete, pragmatic solutions to a really, very difficult challenge, and I believe that the draft law here is a significant contribution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144848	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144852	Firstly, does the Minister stand on the floor of the Parliament and say that the government intends to administer this law in direct conflict with what a majority in the Folketing has written into the supplementary report? That is one question. The second question is: how does the Minister think that a court will deal with an administration that is in direct conflict with the majority of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203144922	I understood from Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen earlier this day that the Danish Parliament has informed the Enhedslisten that it is legally binding what it says in a supplementary report. I do not think that is correct, and I understand that the Enhedslisten has subsequently agreed with me on that. And if we agree that it is not legally binding what is stated in a supplementary report, it is surely correct for me, as Minister of Justice, to say that it is the legislative proposal that is adopted. How else could we legislate in the country? I also understand from the Left, which forms part of the majority of the supplementary report, that it should not be understood as I believe that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen could interpret it, but that it should not extend in other areas than the way the words have to be understood. But I must not hide the fact that I think it is a rather strange method of progress that there is a majority in a report for a wording which does not fit in with the legislative proposal which is subsequently adopted. That is why I think it is important that we agree that it is the legislative proposal that is adopted that will apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145026	Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145029	I do not think it is in any way unclear that this supplementary report is about family reunification and is about ensuring that this law is administered in accordance with our human rights obligations. I think it is a little special that it is the right wing that we should go to to ensure that what is going on is in line with human rights. I would like to repeat my question to the Minister for Justice, because there was no answer: how does the Minister think a court will deal with a possible practice contrary to what the majority of the members of the Folketing have written in a supplementary report?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145113	I would like to repeat what I have said on a number of other occasions: it is the government's opinion that this bill meets our international obligations. The Enhedslisten may then disagree with that, but even to base a question in the Parliamentary Chamber on the fact that it is not correct is certainly on the verge of how we usually discuss with each other. We are not making any legislative proposals on the part of this government, which is not considered to be in line with international commitments. I assume that it is the case that when the Danish Parliament adopts this bill in a moment, it is the bill that applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145147	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked for the floor, we shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145158	The amendments have been voted on, so we are now going to the final vote on the adoption of the legislative proposal and we can vote on them. The vote will end. In favour of voting 90 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), against 19 (SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Birthe Rønn Hornbech (V)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145307	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145325	Thank you. I think it is really a pity that the Left and the government cannot reach each other in this matter, because we were not really so far from it to succeed. There are two things that divide the waters. One is the question of the extension of the area of when to get community service instead of having to go rogue, namely that it should also include perpetrators to the extent that the government has proposed. The second is the exchange system on how many hours of community service should be exchanged for how many days in prison. There the Left had asked the government whether it considered it reasonable that so few hours of community service could be spared instead of imprisonment, and the Minister for Justice replied as follows: "I am of the opinion, however, that, regardless of the judgment of the Criminal Court, there could be grounds for increasing the minimum and maximum hours of community service, so that, for prison sentences, which are made subject to community service conditions, a higher number of community service hours than are currently the case in practice, should be set in accordance with the abovementioned indicative table. She went on to say: "In the light of the statements made by different sides during the legislative proposal's examination in Parliament, I am therefore prepared to support an amendment as mentioned in the question. Now there will be an amendment on that particular issue, and then we can understand that it will not be supported by the government after all. I think that's a little weird and a little awkward. The second question concerns which perpetrators should be able to escape from community service, for example. In a crèche or something. There the government has suggested that, however, restraint should be exercised in the use of conditional prisons for persons-dangerous crime in cases where, and now I quote, injured persons have suffered significant physical or mental injuries. In other words, if a victim of violence has suffered significant physical or psychological damage, the government believes, however, that it should be reluctant to use community service. We think that is simply too lax. Another thing the government says is that the same as a starting point applies if crime has been committed against a particularly defenceless victim. So the Left has asked: is it not enough that it has been exercised against a defenseless victim? Should you have been particularly defenceless? That's where the government answered yes. We find it very, very strange that, in other words, the government believes that it can be freed from community service if one has attacked a defenceless victim who is not very defenceless, and that one can also settle for community service if a victim has suffered physical or psychological damage, but that it has not been significant physical or psychological damage. We wonder, and we regret, that the government did not want to accept the extended hand that the Left came with at first reading and made a broad settlement in this area, but instead it has shown that it prefers to conduct a legal policy with the very far left represented by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145651	Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145701	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, LA and KF). And there's a vote. The vote will end. In favour of 52 votes (V, DF, LA and KF), 59 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), 59 abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 2-5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145802	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145824	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, LA and KF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. For the amendment 52 (V, DF, LA and KF) voted against 59 (S, RV, SF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3 adopted by a majority (V, S, DF, RV and SF) or on Amendment No 3. 4, joined by the Committee (except EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203145933	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203150011	The debate is open. And as soon as the Chamber is quiet, I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Søren Pind from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203150038	Let me begin by thanking the government for its statement. Today, the Foreign Minister and I have been involved in a joint discussion with young high school students about the Cold War, and in that light, and when you read this statement, there is really cause for rejoicing. For how changed! Imagine if a government of the Social Democrats and the Radical Left at that time should have given a similar foreign policy statement. Today we have soldiers deployed, we have recognised the link between development aid, military aid, democratic aid and trade and commerce; in general, there have been tremendous changes in our world view, and the truth is that in that very context there is much more that connects than there is a division. I think the government can also tell itself that now that I have started in this way, there is not only one but a number of people, and I would ask the government to remember the beginning when we get that far. Nor is there any reason to hide the fact that behind the foreign policy statements and discussions during the year there have in fact been profoundly different analyses behind the statements made by the government and by the Left as well as a deeper difference than we have actually been and also a deeper difference than is actually the case when it comes to foreign policy. I am thinking, of course, of the situation in Syria, and I am thinking of the situation in Ukraine. When you read this statement, it's very good. It is telling, it informs about what has happened, but it does not tell history over the last few years about the numerous changes in the attitude of the government, whether Syria or the efforts to stop Russia in Ukraine. It is as if there is no overall strategy behind the government's efforts. You do what you do, the day and the road. At a time when the Syrian conflict began, it was felt that military intervention could not be called into question, it was thought at all that this was something that should probably be left to humanitarian aid. The government even managed to go down to the EU and announce that what could be delivered was bulletproof vests, because that was probably what was needed. And we have constantly seen changes in attitudes. At no time has an overall analysis been presented of what the Danish approach should be under one. It has influenced the decisions. It has influenced the decisions to a degree, so it has to be said that there is a lack of coherence. And it has also influenced decisions in such a way that one has to say that when one acts in this way, one eventually misses history. The high point of that happened well when the government decided to go down to the EU and prevent the British and the French from supplying weapons to the democratic rebels. It is then a policy that has been decided today to pursue, but the fact is that it is probably too late. What we are calling for in relation to the security policy statement is that there is a much more strategic approach to Danish foreign policy. We need to clarify what Denmark's interests are in the long term. We need to set a framework for our decisions so that we do not have to stand and waver and change our attitude and adapt constantly. I am fully aware that Denmark is not such a big country that we can dictate world policy, so sometimes flexibility must be absolutely appropriate, not that it should be understood, but when we, for example, do. has called for a fundamental Danish security policy analysis of what we could contribute to in Syria, the government has rejected it, and we think that is a pity. That is also why we have proposed the setting up of a Foreign Affairs Commission as a first step towards a more strategic and long-term foreign and security policy in Denmark, a policy in which today's events do not overshadow tomorrow's opportunities and threats. In the same vein, I have with the Left's defence rapporteur, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, suggested that the government prepare an updated threat assessment in view of Russia's action since the outbreak of the Ukraine crisis. Both have so far been rejected by the government. Instead, we have a foreign policy which, although often promoted by sympathetic faces, is largely based on improvisation and is without clear pointers. For some politicians, of course, this may be an honor in itself, but for us it seems that the short-term real-policy analysis dominates without any need for consideration for the long-term consequences. The Left has a clear ambition to do better, and that is, of course, why we, among others, are here. has expressed the desire for an Foreign Affairs Commission, threat assessments, and whatever lies ahead. When I started by saying "How changed!', I think it is also appropriate on this occasion to send the almost 500 radios, which, when you read the statement, you can see in these times is out to serve Denmark, a quiet thought and a silent thank you. They perform an effort independent of current governments and a majority in the Folketing, which we can all rightly be proud of. I wish them well here from Parliament's platform and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203150730	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr. John Dyrby Paulsen for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203150750	Thank you, sir. President. The security policy statement that we are discussing every year at the beginning of the new calendar year, the security policy statement of the year that has passed, has become a tradition in the Folketing, and I think it is a good tradition. However, the various statements on security policy also show how difficult it is to foresee what is happening in the world, especially with regard to security policy. If you read through the recently published security policy statement for 2014, I think you can see that it is quite an excellent overview of what has been the challenges of the year that has passed. If you read the minutes of the debate we had here in Parliament last year, on 14 January, on the security policy statement for 2013, you will also see how little we talked about the two major, decisive and most important events of 2014, namely Russia's very aggressive actions in Crimea and in eastern Ukraine and the actions of ISIL in Syria and Iraq. The truth is that the two events were not mentioned by a single rapporteur, including myself, during the debate on 14 January last year in this Chamber. This shows how difficult it is to predict what is happening internationally and how completely impossible it is to foresee what is happening on the security policy stage. My good colleague, sir. Søren Pind from the Left, is right that it would be nice if you could sit down and make a long-term strategy, but I think that just in 2014 the development shows how difficult it really is; although it was desirable that you could do so, it is not certain that it is possible. If we take Russia as an example, then Russian behaviour in the Crimea, where a piece of land from another independent country has been taken over with hidden military threats, namely Ukraine, which is completely unheard of on the international scene in recent times, and if we look at the behaviour of the Russians in eastern Ukraine with the violent use of what we call hybrid war, including small green men, then there is cause for concern. And there is nothing to say about Georgia being particularly concerned; there is nothing to say about our Baltic alliance partners being extremely concerned about developments and the Russian actor. The same has happened in Syria and Iraq with ISIL. Their brutal, cynical behaviour is unparalleled, I believe, in history and has also given rise to great concern in 2014 and, of course, still does. It is only right that we should take part in Iraq in the fight against ISIL. It is not something that will be over in 2015. It is a long, tough effort, but it is absolutely necessary. This is also one of the reasons why the situation in Syria has not improved compared to a year ago when we had the debate. There are now 10 million displaced persons in Syria, including 3 million outside Syria, and in every way it is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, humanitarian disaster in recent times. It has not been better in Libya, where, despite an election and, it can be said, at least some prospect of Libya's economy for peaceful development, it has gone the opposite way, compared to what we hoped with the efforts made in Libya from 2011. There is cause for serious concern about the fighting that we are seeing in Libya at the moment. In the same way, it is in Africa, in the Central African Republic and in Mali, where, despite democratic efforts, it is also clear that the fighting has flared up. A small bright spot in all of this is well that piracy off the Horn of Africa seems to have gone down and is not the big problem, at least not as big as it has been in the past. On the other hand, there is now a fear that piracy in other parts of Africa will see a blossoming and, of course, we must also be prepared to take action there. The new regime in Iran has sent out positive signals. I think that's good. We have yet to see it followed by action, but there is reason to welcome the positive signals, after all. I also think that a bright spot is the Danish Arctic effort, in which Russia is playing in a different pragmatic way than we have seen anywhere else, and there is reason to welcome the fact that the Russians who seem to be following the international rules of play. It will of course be exciting to see how it goes further in the system with the case of the Danish action and claim on territory in the Arctic Sea. The new threats to cyber war and energy supply are also mentioned in the security policy statement, and there is reason to pay particular attention to the attacks that may occur in the cyber area, and of course we all know that the energy situation, not only in Europe but also elsewhere in the world, can pose significant security policy challenges. When we talk about security policy, it is very tough security policy, military means. I think that there is reason to make it clear here that when security policy is so important, it is of course because it primarily affects people. It is the farmer who cannot grow his fields; it is the merchant who cannot be allowed to open his store; it is the children who cannot be allowed to go to school. These are the children we see in eastern Ukraine at the moment who must spend much of their daily lives in shelters. That is simply not acceptable, and that is why Denmark must, of course, help to make an effort, and that is why we are helping to make an effort where we can. It is clear that Denmark as a small nation cannot decide what is going to happen around the world, but we can at least make an active effort. I also think that, as my colleague from the Left did, there is reason to mention the Danes who have been sent out, who are in different places in the hotspots. This applies both to our military deployed and to our civilian deployed. They all make a formidable effort, and I also think that there is reason to thank them all for their efforts here in Parliament. It is clear, as the statement shows, that our alliances, NATO, the United Nations and the European Union, are important. It is also clear, as it appears, that the Nordic Region can be a hero, absolutely crucial alliance in different fora. This applies to NATO, to the European Union, to the United Nations, and that is why we must continue to cooperate in the North, which is self-evident. A few years ago, we talked about cashing in the peace dividend. I also think that this statement on security policy puts a heavy emphasis on the fact that there is no peace dividend. There may be one we interfere with non-dividers, and I don't think Denmark should go down that way. Unfortunately, on the basis of this security policy statement and on the basis of the discussion we had last year, we can very well experience new threats in 2015 that we are not currently aware of. It just underlines that Denmark must, can and should contribute to the places in the world where we can, and I hope that we will see that in the future. That is at least the clear message of this security policy statement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203151543	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203151551	Thank you. When the Danish People's Party's foreign policy rapporteur, Mr. Søren Espersen, unfortunately cannot be present, I should like to say the following: thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement, and let it be said straight away: it is a security policy statement which is widely supported and which the Danish People's Party can largely endorse. I think it is a good thing that such a large majority in the Folketing, year after year, shows the will to get together on this, Parliament's most important topic: Denmark's security. What is so frightening when it comes to foreign and security policy is that it is so totally unpredictable. Last year, when we were discussing the government's security policy statement, nobody talked about either Ukraine or the Islamic State, which are now mentioned as the most important issues. Who could have known a year ago that we were going to relate to the security of the balts and to whether our naval response in the Baltic Sea is sufficient? And who would know that the Poles would feel uncertain as to whether the NATO response to the Russians is sufficient? No, the fact is that at that time we were actually satisfied with the developments that were taking place in relation to Russia, which were increasingly similar to a NATO partner. So military policy predictions did not hold true what they actually hardly ever do. And when I think about how we sit before each defence settlement and examine the experts' predictions five years and ten years ahead, it is actually quite frightening that we are so much guided by them. An example: A few defence solutions ago we abolished Denmark's submarine scaffolding, which over the years in the Cold War had become superspecialists in operating in the shallow waters of the Baltic Sea. But the Wall had fallen, and the Soviets had become Russia, so the experts were happy to tell the conciliation circle that there was now no longer any reason why Denmark should have a submarine weapon. So they took it down. Today, when Russia's military activity is once again a threat, all the same experts agree that the dismantling of the squadron was a stupidity based on the erroneous theory that security policy can be predicted. The annual saving on the decommissioning of the squadron was approx. 700 million kr. out of a defence budget of 23 billion. kr. Today it would partly cost approx. 10 billion kr. to buy 5-6 new submarines, and it would take at least 5 years to rebuild the human expertise, which we then gave up with one blow. This is among other things. with the example of the submarines in mind that we in the Danish People's Party are so convinced of the value of Denmark constantly having a general defence, that is that we have a strong army, a strong air force, a strong fleet and a solid homeguard, precisely because we do not know what the future of security policy is. The concept of territorial defence was, as a result of conciliation, almost written out of the conciliation text, for it was, after all, that we were told by certain experts, an outmoded concept, because there was no longer any threat to Denmark's territory. Then it took four years, and now it is the case that the air force is soon to go into the air every day in order to mark against Russian fighters who are constantly sniffing around and sometimes even flying over our territory. More markings of this kind are now being made by Russia than during the Cold War. By the way, the aggressive Russian activity is, I believe, also a clear greeting to those parties here in the Folketing, who are likely to think that we can easily cut the number of fighters when we have to choose a new type of aircraft in a few months' time. That is not the position of the Danish People's Party on this matter. Our position is that our F-16s have served us well for 30 years, but that it is now time for the replacement to be prepared and that we should buy the necessary number of aircraft which will then be able to defend Denmark for the next 30-40 years. On foreign and security policy, I would also like to state what is the overall line of the Danish People's Party, namely to be the guarantee of Denmark's freedom and independence at all times. Historically it is quite remarkable that Denmark has not long since been absorbed by more powerful neighbours, and when it has not succeeded, it is due to the fact that we have had the will and the ability to maintain independence for centuries. This does not mean that at any time in recent times Denmark has been able to conduct a policy that has been completely independent around us, but it means that we have managed to manage our own affairs in a way that has served our interests and our independence best. Developments are now faster than in the past. So, as I said, we have always needed alliances, and so have we today. This does not mean, however, that we should allow the surrounding world to dictate what policy Denmark should pursue. We must continue to assert Denmark's sovereignty by the necessary means, and we must find the necessary resources for this purpose. In this context, I would like to point out that it is the position of the Danish People's Party that we should end up applying 2%. of GDP on defence, as recommended by NATO. It is not now and here and on the next Finance Act that we believe it should happen, as one of the numerous scaremongering campaigns of the Social Democrats against the Danish People's Party has claimed, but it is precisely by years and in the first place, that in the coming defence agreements we stop consistently cutting back, but that we are slowly moving the other way. It takes something to be part of NATO, and for us it is an honour to make the necessary military contribution. Therefore, Denmark must have a credible and effective military at all times. For us in the Danish People's Party, it does not seem very fair that the United States, which during the Cold War financed 50%. of NATO's budget, today 75% of the budget is financed by NATO. Thus there are wealthy Western countries, including Denmark, which each year just forward the bill for their own defenses to the United States. It's not okay. Finally, let me briefly mention the long list of Denmark's various contributions which the Foreign Minister lists in the statement. The minister is proud of the list, and so are we in the Danish People's Party. For it is great with so many and so talented efforts, Danish soldiers and other sentees have done in 2014. Among many other efforts, Denmark has removed chemical weapons from Syria, carried out air policying in the Baltic, joined Mali, Iraq, Kosovo, Turkey, Ukraine and Afghanistan, and has led the international fight against piracy in the Indian Ocean on several occasions. From this point of view, it also seems rather ridiculous when the Foreign Minister and many parties here in the Danish Parliament are complaining that Denmark cannot be involved in anything because we are not part of the EU's defence cooperation. I have to ask the Foreign Minister and these parties what more is it that Denmark is thought to be able to overcome. And why is it that it is so terrible, for example, that we in the Indian Ocean cannot be part of the European Union's fleet force, when our fleet vessels themselves are equally well able not only to be active down there, but can actually lead the entire international effort and thus be given time and again the coordinating command over Chinese, Russian and Indian vessels, and indeed also into the EU's entire fleet force? I wonder if that would be enough. But so, there is general agreement to the statement No. R 7, by insuring the Danish People's Party's loyal support for the foreign policy efforts made by the government and which benefit Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203152414	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we go to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203152423	I would like to start by thanking you for a good and comprehensive statement. I'll save you a real review of the individual bets... I don't think the time is long enough... but I'll stick to the overall approach instead. First of all, of course, we support an active security policy that takes responsibility not only for close security but also for the security of the world, because of course the two are linked. Then I am aware of the two principles which are highlighted in the paper, on the one hand, the principle of a balanced and broad-based effort and, on the other hand, the principle of effective international organisations and coalitions. These are two principles on which we very much agree, because they are based on a fundamental recognition that military instruments can never stand alone and that we must always strive for legitimacy for our efforts, both in terms of an international legal basis and also in terms of broad international participation in individual efforts. In addition, I would like to add a few observations. After all, it is important that Denmark engages in the crises and conflicts that arise without perhaps expecting them. Several have mentioned both Ukraine, Syria and Iraq here today; situations that require resolute action. It is important that we participate there, but it is also important that our foreign policy is strategic in the sense that it not only bears the stamp of fire-fighting. We also have the opportunity to choose areas of action which we must be at the forefront of pursuing strategically. I am thinking, on the one hand, of areas of action in which we have specific interests, but also of areas where we have a particular competence. With the Commonwealth, of course, we have a natural geopolitical development of interest in the Arctic, and here it should be an absolute priority for security policy to work for a demilitarised Arctic as far as possible. As a small country, it should also be self-evident that we are working hard and dedicated to supporting and developing the international legal order. It is our best guarantee that it is right and not power that governs the course of the world. Finally, we also have a leading position in development cooperation. We have shown that we are willing to make a long and dedicated effort to prevent and find sustainable solutions to conflicts, natural disasters and man-made crises. We must continue to do so because we are making a difference, but also because we can show the way for others. In those words, I would like to thank you for your statement, which supports the strong Danish international commitment, the principles of broad-spectrum action and the broad anchoring, both in institutions and coalitions. And then I have a small parenthesis of what the rapporteur of the Left has said. Funny thing, I have the opposite analysis. I would like to admit to the rapporteur of the Left that the VKO's foreign and security policy was more consistent, but it can also be dangerous to be consistent if we have consistently set the wrong course. And if there is anything the 00s have taught me, it is that unilateral impulse-controlled militaristic activism is dangerous. I believe that what the rapporteur of the Left interprets as a refusal or a lack of strategy is in fact a very, very well-considered change of course, which is that our foreign policy must be based on rational analysis of what is realistic and where we as a nation can bid. It is not just us who have learned from the 00s, it is also in the United States, where we may be a little tricky to say that the argument for Obama is: Don't do something stupid, but it is actually very wise when we look back at the bets we participated in in the 00s. I think we just have to recognise that head-on military activism may make worse, even if we often find ourselves in situations where we want to act so badly, but unfortunately may end up making worse, because we do not know the conflicts well enough to know exactly what is the right thing to do. So, yes, we have set ourselves on a more restraining course. It could also be said that it is a course that bears less emphasis on impulse-driven stupidity than the course of the old government, but it is not indefensible, it is considered, and it is the expression of a different strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203152928	That triggered a brief remark from Mr. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203152932	Could Mrs. Zenia Stampe explain how she really feels about this well-thought-out foreign policy? How does she really feel about Syria, which is described by the United Nations as the greatest humanitarian disaster, not only in this decade, but for decades, that is to say, including the period referred to by Mrs Zenia Stampe, namely the 00s?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153005	Syria is not doing very well, and I do not really think Syria is a recipe for anything, because I do not think it would necessarily have been better if we had intervened in the way Mr. Søren Pind has suggested. So, unfortunately, the lesson from Syria is that there are some conflicts that are incredibly difficult to solve, and I would so like to be able to learn a lesson so that I could tell you exactly what to do next time. But when we look at Iraq and the situation that we have helped to alleviate now, but which, of course, is rooted in the invasion and the effort that we ourselves took part in on a narrow basis here in Parliament, the lesson is that one must be careful not to throw oneself into something. Because the situation we have helped to alleviate now in Iraq is rooted in something for which we ourselves are responsible. That is why I would say: yes, we have been reluctant in Syria. We cannot conclude that it was the right thing to do, but I certainly do not think we can conclude that it was right to intervene militaryly or send weapons to the rebels. Because we have no guarantee that those weapons would not have ended up with ISIL, which was the main argument that we would not pursue Mr Tugendhat. Søren Pind's strategy. We could not manage the various rebel groups, and we were afraid that if we sent weapons, they could end up in the wrong hands, and they could very well have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153129	Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153131	Now I'm confused on a higher level. Does that mean that the radical rapporteur disagrees with the radical foreign minister that weapons should be sent to the moderate rebels now? Well, now I do not understand anything at all, I would say that it is a little too bad that such a deliberate policy leads to nothing being known. I really think that is a shame. It is always referred to: we do not know if... but what can be seen is that this government, among other things. has helped prevent moderate rebels from being equipped with weapons at an early stage, that this government has constantly changed its attitude to the conflict and that we are now facing the worst humanitarian disaster for decades. Nevertheless, Mrs Zenia Stampe maintains what we have heard from the government very early in this process, namely that it could not get any worse. It's obviously wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153223	Now Syria is not a good case for anything, but I don't think it would have been if we had pursued Mr. Søren Pind's strategy but our position is not that you should never equip rebel groups with weapons. But at the time when Mr. Søren Pind suggested it, we just had to see that our knowledge base was not solid enough to make sure that they ended up in the right hands. But as our knowledge of the various groupings has grown, we have later opened up that perhaps it was something that could be done, and we have done so as others have opened up that idea. So it is an expression of greater restraint, but it is also an insistence that we have to have the necessary knowledge before we do anything, because unfortunately we have seen in the 00s that you do something without proper knowledge, you can do worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153322	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153326	Thank you. I very much agree that there is no doubt that the war that the previous government, with the support of the Danish People's Party, made in Iraq, has helped to pave the way for the chaos we are witnessing today in both Iraq and, unfortunately, Syria. So in this way I very much agree with the radical rapporteur, but I would really like to hear from Mrs Zenia Stampe whether, in view of the major problems that clearly exist with serious war crimes by the Iraqi army and associated Shia militias in relation to the situation in Iraq right now, it is in fact believed that the resolution to send down Danish F16 aircraft and help the army which is being accused of serious war crimes was in fact thought through.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153415	Now, of course, there are sometimes restrictions on how long one can think about when one is witnessing mass killings, and that was the reason for our intervention in Iraq. It was mass killing and threatening genocide. We did so with open eyes, and we did so too, knowing that Iraq had not yet had this broad inclusive government and they had not yet shown the results that we want them to show. But I thought it was an emergency situation. We had to do so because it was a different situation from that in Iraq ten years ago because, as I said, there were mass killings at stake and so on. But the reason why I also supported the efforts was that it was broad and that it also had the perspective that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen points out, in other words, the civil perspective, the issue of having a broad inclusive government; what is at stake is saying to Iraq: we help, but we do so under certain conditions. It is true that the circumstances have not been happy in any way, or that the conditions have not been as we wanted them to be, but, despite this, we think it was right in the very acute situation to intervene, and perhaps it has also done so that we have had better speaking time and more force in relation to the struggle which is also taking hold of Mr Tugendhat. Nikolaj Villumsen: creating a broader and more inclusive government in Iraq that treats its various communities properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153542	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153544	But we all know that it really took quite a long time for the Danish fighters to get into action. On the other hand, we saw that the day when a majority in here pressed the green button and sent them off came a report from the United Nations on serious war crimes committed by the Iraqi Government. Since then we have seen similar reports from among others. Amnesty International. The situation is, of course, that there are still huge problems, and that is why I would like to hear: is it really so well thought out? Can we be sure that we will not contribute to civilian losses, thereby strengthening the extreme forces that we saw, unfortunately, that the VKO was responsible for doing in the 00s?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153630	It's definitely a risk. Now our fighter plane is only a very small part of a much larger coalition, so the fact that they didn't get there immediately can of course annoy our vanity, but it probably doesn't make much difference. But what the resolution meant in return was that we have been considered an important party to the resolution of this conflict, and our Foreign Minister and Defence Minister have both participated very actively in all the other efforts which I think are at least as important, if not even more significant than the combat aircraft. I would say that I think military intervention was important, but if our fighters have made the big difference, even though we have skilled pilots and so on, then one can of course doubt because there are so many other fighters as well. But I think they have been extremely important to give us the entrance ticket to bring out some of the other agendas that I think Enhedslisten also believes have been absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153725	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203153744	I would like to thank the Minister for this statement, which I think gives some important broad lines and orientations for Danish foreign policy. I should also like to start by thanking Mr Seligman. Søren Pind for some considerations he made about strategy in foreign policy. Because I very much agree that we have to have that here in Denmark. We are a small country, which lies like a small cliff in northern Europe, and one might ask oneself: why should we have a foreign policy? Does it make sense that we spend so much resources on it? Does it make sense that we are trying to influence our surroundings, and can we even do that? The answer is yes, of course we can. It's a necessity for this country that is so dependent on the outside world that we do it. But since we are this small country, it is also important that we do it wisely and that we have a strategy for the way we act in foreign policy. That is also why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on a Foreign Affairs Commission. I understand that the Left agrees with that idea and I look forward to a very interesting discussion on it. For there is a real need for a more fundamental strategic discussion on how Denmark should place itself in the major changes we see in geopolitics in the world these years. A paper from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs came here just before Christmas, a vision paper which I think is quite, quite excellent in many ways, and which provides some good sightlines. However, I think it is important that we dig deeper into a spade, and that we get a much more fundamental work on how Denmark can place itself in the world, that is, on what perspectives we need to work on, whether we have the right instruments to solve the tasks that need to be done, and that, like foreign policy, we are getting higher on the political agenda. There may often be a tendency for it to be reduced a little. We know that from campaigning. That's just the way it is. But when we still haven't got an election match really up and running in the scenes, I think there's good reason for us to get this work going... just to illustrate the different forums in which we're going to work and where we're dependent on alliances around the world globally, the UN, Europe, the EU and NATO, the Nordic and the Nordic Council, and so we can get an analysis of how we can get the different forums and the different influences to play together as much as possible, so that we get a strengthened Danish line out in the world and a Danish voice that is being listened to around the world. This is really needed in the great changes that we are experiencing in these years. As I said, I think the statement is a good one. There's the right line of sight in it. I think that there is an important new orientation in relation to the past, because this statement places a great deal of emphasis on multilateral cooperation. A great deal of emphasis is placed on the United Nations, on the European Union, where in the 00s it was very dominated by the United States and it was very much the United States that defined Danish foreign policy. You moved away from the European Union. It was the new Europe that Rumsfeld called it, Denmark was part of, and not the old Europe, and where the UN played a very, very limited role. It is extremely important, also for Danish foreign policy, and the tradition here in Denmark, that we come back to the UN track. The UN is the body we need to have globally in order to resolve conflicts and in order to be able to discuss with each other. Although there are all sorts of dictators, all sorts of bandits, to put it bluntly, who are also in the United Nations, we need to have a place to discuss with them. That is why the UN is such an important body, and I think it is crucial that this Parliament, this country, should come back on a responsible UN track, which I thought was a little absent for a period of time. This also applies to the European Union: we recognise that in Europe it is the European Union that can play a more important role than it does at present and that it is in Danish interest for the European Union to do so. In this context, I also think we should say that, in relation to the Ukraine crisis, it is actually quite, quite impressive that there has been agreement within the European Union on the line that has been taken. There have been many scorns in relation to the sanctions applied to Russia. But there are no other options, to put it plainly. We have written off the military card, fortunately for that there are, fortunately, only sanctions and diplomacy that we can use, and I firmly believe that sanctions have had an effect. But the key point here is also that the European Union has been able to formulate a common line, although there are very, very different approaches in Europe to Russia. It is important that we in Denmark work to maintain that consensus. There is a recognition in this report that military intervention may be necessary, but that it must be used with great care and that it must only be used once all other options have been exhausted. It is a very important realization to have. I think there was a tendency in the past for military intervention to be used as a first step in a conflict resolution, or that is what was discussed in the first place. The military option must be used at the end of the day, where diplomacy and all other options have been exhausted. And that is the case with IS in the Middle East. You cannot negotiate with a Nazi, fascist organisation such as IS; a brutal, barbaric organisation such as IS cannot be negotiated with. We're just gonna have to draw that realization. That is also the reason why the West has taken military action. One can argue: we are doing it again. No, it is not the same as the 2003 Iraq War. It's something completely, completely different that we're dealing with here. There's the very, very important difference. It's also clear from this statement that we're not supposed to fight the IS; it's the local forces in the area that have to fight the IS, and we're the only support function for them. This is a fundamental difference from the Iraq war, where we went in and occupied Iraq, and from Afghanistan, where we went in and occupied Afghanistan. That's why the Kurds have managed to beat the ICE back. I know that Enhedslisten has been very concerned about Kobane, and the Kurds actually managed to turn the IS back. This is due to many things, but it is also due to the fact that the Americans bombed the IS positions from the air. This is also due to the American bombings. It is also due to the coalition bombings in northern Iraq that it succeeded in stopping the advance of IS towards Erbil in that part of the Kurdish area. That's why it's had a function there. That's why it's worked. It is true, as has been said, that there is a problem with the Iraqi army and the Iraqi Government, and we need to follow it very closely. We have also said from our side that if it turns out that progress is not being made and Shia militias are as brutal in their conduct as IS, then it is simply not going to work. But the way I have been briefed about it and understood it, there is a development going on in Iraq in this area. But it is clear that we need to follow it closely and see whether it actually has a function in relation to it. But I think, as I said, that there is a very correct line in relation to these areas. The Arctic plays a major role, including in Danish foreign policy, also in this statement. We also need to discuss the Arctic, because it has become a Danish area of interest par excellence. Through the Commonwealth, we have an important role to play in that area, and in this respect it is also absolutely essential that we have a Russia policy that is manageable. After all, Russia is an important player in the Arctic. And that is why it is also important, as Mr. Søren Pind also mentioned that we are getting a thorough analysis of what it is like for a Russia we are experiencing in these years. How can we deal with this Russia? And again: We need a more strategic review of Danish foreign policy. In those words, however, I would like to thank you for your statement to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203154709	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203154717	Thank you. Thank you for your statement and thank you for today's debate. There is no doubt that there are real, very many challenges and problems in the field of foreign and security policy. It has to be said that out in the world, war strikes and right now enjoyed historically many people around. I would like to address some of the problems that there are and some of the points that the statement raises. A crucial challenge we face is the fight against ISIL, and here we in the Enhedslist believe that it is absolutely essential that we support the local democratic forces that are fighting for democracy and human rights in the Middle East. That is why we in the Enhedslisten are also in favour of Denmark supporting the Kurds' struggle against ISIL in northern Iraq, but we believe, in return, that it is tragic, yes, really shameful, that a majority in the Folketing has so far refused to help the Kurds in Kobane in northern Syria. What we have just seen at Kobane is that the Kurds, through a persistent and courageous struggle, have managed to defeat ISIL, and with a Syria characterised by ethnic and religious divisions, it is positive to see that there is a positive development in the Kurdish territories. I visited them myself at the end of last year, and what was interesting to see was that here we are trying to create a democratic model for a future Syria with the inclusion of all ethnic and religious groups and equality of women. It is a democratic approach which stands in stark contrast to ISIL's totalitarian fascism and Assad's brutal repression and violence. If we are to put an end to the extremists from ISIL, it is crucial that Denmark is working internationally to stop the backers. We must take the leaf out of our mouths and criticise the Western allies in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the Gulf, who directly or indirectly support ISIL. Above all, there should be massive international pressure on the Turkish Government, which has consistently prevented aid from coming to the Arabs, Kurds and Christians who have fought a desperate battle and are still doing so against ISIL at Kobane. It is absolutely absurd that the Turkish border should be closed while hundreds of thousands of refugees are standing and cannot come back and rebuild their devastated city in Kobane. I think it is fundamental that we in the Folketing should endeavour to put pressure and change this grotesque situation, not least because we are all talking about helping the refugees in the neighbourhood, and here is a very obvious opportunity to do so, but that requires pressure on the Turkish Government. We believe that Denmark should focus on supporting the Kurds in both Iraq and Syria against ISIL. Safety equipment is needed, we need to go hard on the backers who finance ISIL and who buy their oil on the black market, and we need to ensure that the refugees receive help in the vicinity and that pressure on Turkey to open the border with the Kurdish territories in Syria is laid so that the current blockade can be broken. However, I also think it is important to say that it is crucial that we are aware that the major problems in Iraq and Syria are currently basically created by sectarian violence, sectarian repression by the regimes in Syria and Iraq. The last regime in Iraq under Maliki was supported by the United States and by Denmark, and it is completely unrealistic to believe that peace and political inclusion can be achieved by bombing in Iraq. I fear that the military support given by the majority of the Folketing right now to the Iraqi Government with the F-16s will strengthen the extreme forces because, unfortunately, we see that the Iraqi army and its associated Shia militias are making themselves responsible for serious war crimes. I have to say, frankly, that the cover-up, which unfortunately is due to the involvement of the defence with the fighters in Iraq, does not make me feel any more secure. On the contrary! It is crucial that we have an openness about the missions that Denmark is undertaking, as the fighters are doing, not least because they are going to continue to do so for a long time to come, and we can fear that it will be the extreme forces that will be the winners. I believe that Denmark should instead exert pressure to have an inclusive government in Baghdad and to support the UN peace efforts in Syria. I would now like to talk a little about the situation in Ukraine, which is deeply, deeply awful. Developments in Ukraine are very, very dangerous, as I see it. The civilian suffering is enormous, the losses and the flows of refugees are great. From the outset, in the Enhedslisten, we have rejected the possibility of a military solution to the conflict, and I must say that the developments that have taken place since then have indeed shown that a military solution to the conflict is not possible. There is no doubt that Russia is acting completely unacceptable, both in relation to the annexation of Crimea and in relation to the interference in the civil war in eastern Ukraine. I believe that it is essential that Denmark should work to ensure that all parties stop fighting and stop armament. It is clear that this is particularly true of Russia, of course, but I must also say that the news yesterday that the United States is considering arming the Ukrainian Government is disastrous. It is a good thing that we are drawing a little bit ashore today, but it is absolutely essential that Denmark ensure that all forces are put on the political track and that armament from all sides is stopped. It is at the heart of the solution in Ukraine that the much-needed democratic reforms are being carried out and that the country is being decentralized. It is important that all the people of Ukraine can see themselves represented in Kiev if a peaceful solution is to be found. In addition, it is crucial that Denmark should work to impose a penalty for war crimes committed by both parties in the conflict. It is very, very terrible what is happening right now, and it is crucial that we put in place. Finally, I would like to address three important issues which are very dear to us in the Enhedslisten and which I will mention briefly. Firstly, on the one hand, we want the full withdrawal of the Danish soldiers in Afghanistan. The situation has not improved; on the contrary, Afghanistan is very far from a well-functioning democracy and the Taliban still controls large parts of the country. Nothing indicates that the continued presence of foreign forces will help. On the contrary, it creates more problems and more radicalisation. Secondly, the Palestine issue is central to resolving it. The Palestinian question is the key to solving many of the conflicts in the Middle East. We believe that a positive step would be for Denmark to recognise Palestine... recognised Palestine as an independent state. I find it sad that the government did not do it last year, and I would urge the government to reconsider doing so. Is it really wise to reject the moderate forces of the Palestinians here? Thirdly, we do not want Denmark to spend 30 billion. kr. To buy fighter planes. Denmark does not need new fighter planes, and I think it is remarkable that when you see what even NATO is reporting out, they do not report that it is fighter aircraft that the alliance needs. 30 billion. kr. is a historically large printing. I know it will be the biggest public procurement in Danish history, and I think it is quite unreasonable to spend such a large amount in a time of crisis when welfare is being dramatically cut. It is an error of priority and an error of priority that the Folketing should refrain from doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203155545	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203155605	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an excellent statement which, of course, goes into detail about the Danish commitment in the past year. One of the very first meetings I attended after the 2011 elections was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the then Foreign Minister, Villy Søvndal. At that time, I called on the Foreign Minister to draw up a foreign policy and security policy strategy, because I thought that there were so many things that changed in the world and without a strategy, the course would be easy to take. The same request I made to the subsequent Foreign Minister, who is sitting in this Chamber, he comes from the SF, and I have also pointed out to the current Foreign Minister that it is therefore time for us to adopt a foreign policy strategy in Denmark. One of the common themes in the report presented to us was the identification of the many problems, an indication of the Danish broad-spectrum approach, yes, an indication that Denmark is here and there and everywhere where there are important issues to fight for, and there are very many places to fight for. The question is whether we are moving from an activist security policy to an active security and foreign policy to an unfocused security and foreign policy. It wouldn't be wise to be a small country in a big world. The Liberal Alliance's approach to foreign policy is that we must always have a protection criterion made clear. We must protect Danish interests first and foremost in Denmark and in the Danish foreign and security policy. We must protect our freedom, our independence and our society, and, no, it does not in any way exclude that Denmark can also contribute to international actions that urgently contribute to the protection of civilian populations who are subjected to terrorism or abuses and to the gross violation of basic human rights. In a world that will hardly be calmer in the years to come, and where there will be even more conflict areas and hotspots that deserve the attention of the world and Denmark, there is a need for strategic points of direction, both in relation to the Danish concrete efforts, but also in our contribution to putting an agenda in the division of labour between the international organisations that we are part of. We in the Liberal Alliance want the Danish Government, whatever its color, to make it clearer what the strategic points of direction should be in the coming years, and we also want to help make Denmark agenda setting out what reforms we want to see implemented in NATO, the UN, the OSCE, the EU and elsewhere where we are. We also want the Danish Government, in the light of a clear foreign and security policy strategy, to dare to challenge the current division of labour between the international actors and our alliance partners. The world is changing, which is why international organizations and the division of labour between them must also change. This cannot be done convincingly until we have discussed and established a strategy. That is why, for the fourth year in a row, we in the Liberal Alliance are calling for strategic discussions so that we do not drift or jump from stone to stone in a troubled and uncertain world where the nature of the threats is in a scary breakup. Liberal democracy, based on free constitutions, parliamentarianism, free trade, the rule of law and the division of power, is by no means a matter of course. The old liberal democracies are also being challenged in these years. Without a clear and well-known strategy that makes it possible to give an understandable priority, based on Danish security and foreign policy interests, we cannot act securely, either in the acute situations or in the long run. I should therefore again, on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, call on the government to draw up a strategy, knowing that it may not be possible to achieve this before, hopefully, a change of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203160016	Thanks to Mette Bock from the Liberal Alliance. I give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203160035	I would like to start by thanking the government for a good statement. It shows what we agree on, namely that Denmark is a country that conducts an active foreign policy, that we actively take care of Danish interests around the world, and that we therefore also have many Danes soldiers, policemen, relief workers and others who skillfully support Danish foreign policy and help in many hot spots around the world, and thank you for that. It also shows, and I think the debate here today shows, that we have a strong consensus on security policy over a long period of time, and the political decisions we have taken over the past months and years have shown this, in other words cooperation across the middle of Danish policy on security policy. It provides continuity and stability in Danish foreign policy, and thus it also serves Danish interests well. After all, security policy and security are about freedom and security. It is for Denmark about our freedom and our sovereignty to decide for ourselves within our own territory, within our own borders. That is what traditional security and defence policy means, but in our time security policy is also about the freedom to preserve our values and our freedoms. After all, the greatest security policy risk today does not actually come from other states, as I had almost said in the old days. The greatest security policy threat comes from groups and individuals who will use terror against us in order to limit our freedom and destroy our values. After all, this is well illustrated in the security policy statement that we have received, which points precisely to the many groupings around the world which pose a security policy risk, in the end also to us Danes. There are security policy challenges in our neighbourhood in Europe. They have increased, the security policy situation in Europe has changed dramatically over the past year, but there are also major security policy challenges that threaten us directly in the world. The two strong examples of this, although several other examples could also be mentioned, are probably the situation in the Middle East with ISIL, which has taken hold in at least large parts of Northern Iraq and Syria, and the situation with Russia's aggression towards Ukraine. When it comes to the situation in Iraq and Syria, it is a situation that is characterised by foreign policy that is often a dilemma. In Denmark, in the Danish Parliament, we have decided to send our F-16 pilots and fighters to Iraq to be part of the coalition that fights the cruel terrorist organisation that ISIL is. We are, of course, doing so in order to help those people who are oppressed and who are subjected to atrocities in the area, but we are certainly doing so because it is in our own interests to prevent the emergence of a strongly fortified and comprehensive fundamentalist caliphate in the area, which can ultimately become a hotbed of terrorism against our part of the world. Unfortunately, as recently as the beginning of this year, we have seen how terrorist attacks could be directed against a magazine, Charlie Hebdo, in Paris, which was averted at the last minute by a terrorist operation in Brussels, and we ourselves have had it in Denmark several times. There are threats against us that come exactly from hotspots all over the world. We must continue to do so, but it is, of course, a complicated security and foreign policy situation to act in such an area as Northern Iraq and, above all, Syria. As far as our immediate region, Europe, is concerned, as I said earlier, the security situation has fundamentally changed with Russia's aggression towards Ukraine, first by the illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and now by a violent Russian aggression in eastern Ukraine. And one might ask oneself: what is Russia's strategy with what is happening at the moment, when we have seen that every time someone might suggest to Russia that you could soften up, that you could find a negotiating trail, Russia is merely taking advantage of what they see as weakness by acting even more aggressively? It is to be feared that Russia's strategy is to create a land-based corridor from the Russian border along the coast down to the Crimean Peninsula in order to get a transport corridor in the area. I believe that there is reason to keep a close eye on Russian movements in order to analyse whether that is not the way. Then we all say that it is political and financial means that we need. And, of course, it is. It is difficult to find other means that can be used; it is difficult to see a military solution. So, of course, we need to negotiate with Russia, of course we need to bring Russia and Ukraine into a negotiating area where some results are achieved. And the economic sanctions must continue and we must tighten them up if we see that Russia is becoming further aggressive. But one must ask oneself: what are we really doing on the part of NATO, on the part of the European Union, if it turns out that Russia's aggression is an expression of a strategy that goes beyond what we are currently seeing in order to put itself on the territory of Ukraine? This is a very worrying situation and I understand that there are countries close to the Russian border, the Baltic States and other countries that are deeply concerned about the behaviour of Russia at the moment. That is why it is also the view of the Conservative People's Party that it was right when the NATO countries recently decided in Wales that the aim must be to move over a 10-year period towards the NATO countries spending 2%. of our gross domestic product on our defenses. We cannot afford to fail to ensure that we have the necessary defence in Europe and in the United States to deal with the security policy situation. That is why we, the Conservatives, are behind the strategy of increasing our defence spending in the coming years. I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that we need to strengthen our resources in foreign and security policy at all. More than ever, we are influenced by conditions around the world, deeply complex relationships. It also does, of course, that we have the opportunity to influence what is happening in the world, but that presupposes that we have the resources for it. This applies not only to security policy, but also to the safeguarding of Denmark's economic interests around the world. Then we must work, as some people are talking about, on a new strategy for our foreign and security policy, and we must also be prepared to make greater resources available for foreign and security policy. For that is the only way we can strengthen and secure Danish interests around the world • ultimately to strengthen our own freedom, and that must be what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203160933	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed. And then I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203160942	Let me start with a heartfelt thanks to all of the parties in the Folketing, who have in fact all stressed the importance of there being a strong discussion between Danish parties about what our foreign policy should be, but also the fact that when it comes to the difficult decisions when it comes to the concrete line, we in this country have a long-standing and unique tradition of trying to create such a broad scope in the decisions we make that we outwardly appear as a strong and united nation. It strengthens our voice in all the international fora that I am in from the EU over the UN to the coalition against ISIL and many, many other forums, not least NATO. I hope we can continue to do so, but this must be the time when the Foreign Minister thanks the parties of the Folketing for their cooperation. I myself do not remember a year in recent world history when the world has struggled with so many and so deep conflicts as we have experienced over the past 12 months. In particular, the conflict in Ukraine and the emergence of an unprecedented violent extremism in the Middle East were and are defining events for global development in the coming period, and therefore also for our foreign policy, as several rapporteurs have said. The conflicts are good examples of how global security challenges also affect Denmark, although they are far from Denmark. You have also stressed that we cannot take our security for granted. Fortunately, 2014 also showed that Denmark is ready and willing to step in when the world community calls. It is in our interest to fingerprint global developments and contribute where we can make a difference. We are doing this on the Danish side with broad-spectrum interventions using both civilian, diplomatic, humanitarian and military instruments. Military efforts may be necessary, but they do not constitute a lasting solution in themselves. When peace and stability are to be won, it is always the political and civil efforts that will be essential to secure lasting solutions. This is a Danish approach that we must maintain on the international agenda. In 2015, the fight against ISIL and violent extremism, as well as adapting to the current security policy situation in the east, will remain a security policy priority. As regards the fight against ISIL, Denmark will continue its military engagement and training efforts as part of the broad international coalition. The military effort has had an effect on the earth, but there is a prospect of both a long and a tough battle. One of the most important things in the new year will be to prevent extremism, to stop the approach of the so-called foreign fighters both for the sake of the region, but certainly also for our own sake. We must focus on implementing the action plan against radicalisation and strengthening the non-military part of the fight against ISIL, which means among other things. a political effort that several rapporteurs have called for, to ensure an inclusive Iraq and to press for a political solution in Syria, where Denmark naturally fully supports the UN's efforts. In relation to the changed security policy landscape in Europe, Denmark will play an active and important role in 2015 in terms of both NATO's adaptation to new challenges and NATO's increased presence in the eastern Member States, where Denmark will, of course, continue to contribute. It is incredibly important that we do not accept a world in which Russia can move borders by violent takeover and can destabilise and intimidate a number of countries using so-called hybrid instruments. Finally, of course, we should not forget a large number of other security policy challenges, as the rapporteurs have done for good reasons. The attack in Paris, as some have mentioned, at the beginning of January has shown that the fight against terrorism will continue to have a high priority in 2015, but it certainly also applies to the security-marked fight against climate change, where we have COP21 in Paris, and this is the case of the Arctic, as some have mentioned, cybersecurity, energy security and piracy, which we will also have to deal with. And then you never know if there will be new crises as well. Then I would like to make a few comments on the speeches that have been made by the various parties. After all, the left started kindly by saying that there is more gathering than separating, and I was particularly aware that Mr. Søren Pind believes that there are many sympathetic faces in Danish foreign policy. It is good that there is something to rejoice about, and it is clear that it is whining. The Secretary of Defense and I were thinking about which of us was intended, but I would like to insist that the Foreign Minister draw up foreign policy. On the other hand, there is an indication from the Left of a lack of strategic focus, and this is in itself a theme that has been repeated by many rapporteurs, both SF, Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives mentioned it with the strategic approach. Let me start by saying that we're actually like mr. Holger K. Nielsen was also kind enough to draw attention to the fact that for the first time in many years the government has provided a vision paper in which we try to set up point marks for Danish foreign policy. The three points we have are that Danish foreign policy must ensure Danish security and peace; to secure the Danish values out in the big world, from democracy to human rights to climate and poverty reduction; and to ensure Danish prosperity, including our exports. I really believe, when I hear today's debate, that the vast majority of parties will be able to sign up to the three points of the Danish foreign The next interesting discussion is, of course, what kind of instruments you think it is necessary to achieve the three objectives or the three points of reference, and I would very much like to welcome a further discussion on this. Our bid, to mention a few things, has been the military, diplomatic and political alliances we have, NATO, the United States, the European Union, etc., that is to say, the whole security policy. In addition, it has been an increased judicial cooperation, an attempt to export the Danish model, where we are best, whether it is about green energy, about our labour market, about our health system and the treatment of the elderly, about our food production, etc. We have plenty to offer both in terms of legislation and in terms of advice, but also in terms of economics. Broadly speaking, our bid is that we should give our legislation away to the emerging economies, because they are very interested in it and, on the other hand, they can be allowed to buy our technologies and products afterwards. Then we will have both significant fingerprints, but also increased Danish prosperity. But we also think it is absolutely crucial to think about Danish aid for developing countries, and here there really is a difference from all the bourgeois parties we have heard today. We want to maintain a high level of Danish development aid, on the one hand, to combat poverty and, on the other hand, to be able to afford to make the offensive efforts towards the emerging economies in order to strengthen regulatory cooperation, in order to further fingerprint Danish values policy abroad, the Arab Initiative, support for Ukraine's young media people who would like to make more truthful presentations of what is going on in Ukraine than there is today, etc. etc. That is what we are using Danish development aid for. And if you really want to go all the way to the high nails, you might ask: is that what the Left is going to cut away when they want to lower Danish foreign aid if they are going to get government power? Many people then ask about the strategic issue, and I would like to admit that what we have put forward is government vision papers. We are happy to have a good discussion on whether to try to anchor greater strategic work in the Folketing, and we will have the opportunity to discuss this when the SF motion for a resolution on a Foreign Affairs Commission, B 55, comes to the Chamber; and we will look forward to doing so. The Danish People's Party then mentions that it is of great importance that we do not get the baby thrown out with the bathing water, and that some of the savings we have made in defence should be regretted today. I do not want to enter into a major defence policy discussion, but I would say that Denmark has actually succeeded in reducing Danish defence expenditure from approx. 1.7 to 1.4%. of GDP, while at the same time we have made an incredibly large contribution to various operations around the world. And it has been, it has to be said, a period in which Danish defence has been recognised more than ever before for our contribution, whether it has been in Mali, in the Central African Republic, in Iraq or in a very third place, in relation to piracy, etc. Therefore, I just think that one should be careful to conclude that the fact that we have made some priorities in the Danish Parliament in terms of defence is the same as the fact that Denmark has not been able to deliver, indeed, an increased contribution to international operations. I think we can be proud of that. Doing more for less is something we're going to practice, not just in the defense, but also in all sorts of other places. So the Danish People's Party asks: does it not matter whether we are getting rid of the European defence reserve or not? There I would say that it is true that you can twist, said the eel. We have had examples that we have been able to join UN operations instead of EU operations, but for example. in Mali and the Central African Republic, we see examples of how we have been involved, but where it has been transferred to EU operations and Denmark has then withdrawn. I would like to ask the opposite question: what is really wrong with the operations carried out by the European Union? After all, we are already participating in a large number of operations in which the European Union is also involved. It would just make it easier and more flexible for our defences to be able to join in different places. The tasks are and will be largely the same regardless of the hat we wear. The SF then addresses our efforts in Syria and the difficult dilemma and the need for UN negotiations. I welcome the great support both the SF, the Conservatives and several others have given to those negotiations. It is not an easy task, and I can confirm that it is the government's policy to put ever-increasing pressure on the Iraqi Government to pursue an inclusive policy, in order to get control of the Shia militias that are still running hard against the Sunni Muslims, thus contributing in exactly the opposite direction to what is needed. And it is my impression that there is an increasing recognition at the top of the Iraqi Government, not least by the Prime Minister, that this is absolutely necessary and that there has been a real attempt to set back on it and also to take concrete initiatives by replacing people and so on. It is also something that takes some time, we must acknowledge, but we continue to put pressure on them. The unitary list has a lot of focus on the backers, the funding of this whole area, terrorism, the war in Syria, etc. In a way, I agree that we must have affected all sources of funding for both foreign fighters and terrorism around us. Then the Enhedslisten, I think, maybe, in return, have a rather one-sided view of who it is worth supporting in Syria. You have a very, very big focus on the Kurds. I must say that I also think that the Kurds in Kobani have done a heroic job, but they have done so in cooperation with some others, among others. the coalition against which Enhedslisten has been opposed. I do not think it would have been possible to hold Kobani if it were not for the coalition's help from the air, but also for the help of other moderate opposition groups. If I were to have a pious wish for the next few weeks, it is that there could be rapprochement between the opposition groups which represent, in particular, the Sunni in Syria, the moderate opposition groups, and the Kurdish opposition groups. If they could approach each other and form one front, both against Assad's terrible regime and against ISIL, it would strengthen their chances of survival and political impact incredibly much. Therefore, my appeal to everyone will be that this is the focus we have. If we are to try to help the moderate opposition, regardless of their ethnic background, then it requires that we all help, that we also make them more united and that we can see that they can represent the future of Syria. Otherwise, we are simply too weak against both Assad and ISIL. Mette Bock says that we are moving from an activist over an asset to an unfocused foreign policy. I do not think so, but I must admit that there have been so many crises over the past year that we have had our eyes fixed in many places. When you take Ukraine, where Mr. Søren Pind mentioned that we should have changed politics, I would say that I do not think we do. I believe that we have had a completely consistent and targeted policy for Ukraine. All the way through, we have said that we believe that there must be a consequence, that we believe that there must be a reaction every time Russia steps up its aggression. Each time we have helped to secure 17 times, it has become possible for the EU to stand together to impose additional sanctions of one kind or another. And at the same time, we have said that the reason why we are imposing these sanctions is not that we want a collapse in the Russian economy; that is because we want to push Russia to the negotiating table and get an agreement on how Ukraine can remain a unified country that can see an economic future as the one we other want for our children. The hard hand and the outstretched hand have been the government's policy from day one, and it is to this day. But it is true that we want a proactive policy rather than an activist foreign policy. We would like to try to be at the forefront of some of the conflicts and crises we are experiencing in the world. We would like to try, through our judicial cooperation and aid from developing countries, to influence some of these communities before they end up in flames and crises. Finally, I would like to say to Lars Barfoed, who is also on guard over the agreement in Danish foreign policy.Thank you for that and who, in addition, believes that more resources are needed for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that this is something that will always make a foreign minister happy, so that people want his ministry well, but that it must of course also be so at a time when we are saving everywhere and trying to find finance everywhere that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must also deliver its share. Of course, we must keep an eye on the fact that it will not be too much. Lars Barfoed, in turn, of course, we must also ensure that all resources are well used, and if there is a need for additional resources in one place, we must first of all look at whether they cannot be found elsewhere. However, thank you for the many kind words about both the work of the Ministry and the common foreign policy that we conduct on the Danish side. Let me conclude, as many rapporteurs have done, by saying that Danish foreign policy is far, far greater than both what the Foreign Minister is doing, what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing and what all the foreign policy rapporteurs are doing. In practice, Danish foreign policy is also the thousands of soldiers, relief workers, people working in private companies, and nurses fighting Ebola. The military and civilian heroes who present Denmark directly and indirectly in the big world have all made an extraordinary and incredible contribution in the last year. We owe them all the thanks we can mobilize. They should know that their efforts are recognised and that they are appreciated by all parties of the Folketing. And that is why I would like to thank the parties of the Folketing for voting in that choir today; it sends an extremely important signal to all the Danes who work for us out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203162718	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203162724	Thank you to the Secretary of State. When the Foreign Minister notes that the government has not changed its position on Ukraine, it can be said that it is also because the Foreign Minister himself has used curious words. In other words, he has at first described it as the government's line in relation to the other EU countries was to hold a middle position. Later it became a very activitic position. It may all be the same. But leave it at that, because my real question is: does the Foreign Minister believe that the course being taken right now will lead to the return of Crimea to Ukraine? And does the Foreign Minister believe that the course being taken now will lead to the end of the Russian interferences in Ukraine beyond the Crimea?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203162815	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203162816	I would describe the Danish Government's policy as an active middle position, and that is how I think I have expressed it all the way through. And by that I mean that we actually have as target number one that we can hold together for the European Union, but preferably in a direction that means responding to what is going on over there, in other words that Russia's aggression has a consequence of European policy. And here we are doing a great deal to stick together on the one hand, Germany, our great neighbour and allies, and on the other hand, the three Baltic countries, which are probably the most fearful in the current situation. In fact, there we have an important role to play in keeping the European Union together. As recently as the last Council meeting, I dare say that we played a role. Will it make Russia decide? Will this lead us to foresee that Crimea remains Ukrainian territory, and where will it all end? That is incredibly difficult to answer, but I can at least say so much that I am very convinced that the sanctions we have imposed have had an effect, not as great an effect as I could have wanted it to be, as is obviously clear, but a great effect in the sense that if they had not been there, I am sure that we would have seen Russia much deeper inside Ukraine at a much earlier stage. That is why I do not think there is any alternative to continuing the current sanctions policy as long as Russia continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203162941	Sir. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203162943	It can be said that the European Union's line has also been given a helping hand by the very falling oil prices, which are, of course, helping to put enormous pressure on Russia. But even that is supposedly not enough. Does the Foreign Minister have any suggestions as to what further action can be taken now if what is being done continues to have no effect in relation to Crimea or the Russian interference in the rest of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203163019	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203163021	At this stage, I am very concerned to supplement the increased policy of sanctions against Russia with even greater and massive support for Ukraine. It's the only thing I'd say you're never gonna regret. For a strong Ukraine, where the reforms that are needed and where the 50 million people who do not live in eastern Ukraine will have a better state with a better economy, will be, I believe, the best vaccination against Russia's expansion. I focus on free media, independent media, which is also Russian-speaking, and then I focus on an energy sector that makes itself independent of Russian supplies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203163106	I thank the Secretary of State. There are no further brief comments, so I can pass on the floor to the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203163118	Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions and comments. 2014 has been a particularly eventful year for Danish security policy, as has been mentioned by several people. Today, I would like to highlight three areas in which we in Denmark have made an important contribution. Firstly, it is the fight against the brutal terrorist movement ISIL, secondly, the tense situation for European security and, thirdly, our efforts in West Africa to combat the Ebola epidemic. For all the Danish initiatives, Denmark is a small country, but we can help make a big difference. First of all, in relation to ISIL: we have witnessed terrible crimes here. ISIL has committed barbaric acts, carried out mass executions, rapes and, in any case, has shown examples of unbelievable cruelty. ISIL represents a regional and an international threat. Therefore, I am also proud that Denmark, with broad support from the Danish Parliament in 2014, joined the coalition where more than 60 countries participate with a wide range of actions that contribute to combating ISIL. While we are debating here today, the defence is in full swing to contribute to the fight against ISIL. This is done both with our combat aircraft contributions with the F-16s, but also with training contributions that help train security forces in Iraq. Our soldiers, whether in the air or on land, are helping to make a difference. Our planes are delivering attacks on ISIL, and the first training contributions that have been made have helped train the Kurds so that they can deploy on land, and now we are taking the next steps so that Iraq itself will hopefully be able to penetrate the ISIL defensive as quickly as possible on land. The transport aircraft contribution, the C-130 aircraft, which was decided upon by the Danish Parliament in August 2014, and which has contributed to the efforts to deliver arms and equipment, has also made a difference. In other words, we play on many strings to ensure a result that makes a difference. And I have no doubt that the Danish aircraft and the coalition's other aircraft, which have been on their wings, have helped to inflict ISIL losses, have helped to make it much more difficult for the organization to operate, have done, whether it has been in Kobane or elsewhere, that pressure has been put on ISIL, which gives those who fight that organisation much better opportunities to be successful. That doesn't mean there's not a long and tough fight ahead. There is. But it is important to say that among other things. The Danish efforts are helping to make a difference, helping to help the civilian population in Iraq, so that ISIL does not, as we have seen in the past, have very easy access to making terrible attacks on men, women and children. The Danish effort also helps to ensure our own security in a broad sense, and it is also so important. I, along with the parties behind the defence settlement, visited the Danish combat aircraft contribution a few days ago. The reports that were given from our senders confirm that it is useful that they can see the results of their efforts concretely and on a daily basis. I would like to take this opportunity today to express my sincere thanks and also the greatest appreciation to the people we have sent out for the action in Iraq, both to our pilots and to others in Kuwait, but also to the people we have to train in Iraq. It is also important to say that 2014 was very much about the security policy situation in Europe, which has been challenged by Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and aggressive behaviour. Russia's behaviour is a challenge to European stability. We have been working on this part of NATO this year, and it will also be very high on the agenda this year that lies ahead of us. Together with the debate on burden sharing between NATO countries, it was a focal point for the NATO summit in Wales. Here we agreed on several important steps to be taken as a result of the development of Europe's security policy situation, including: NATO Readiness Action Plan. The plan is NATO's joint response to the changes in the strategic environment, not least the challenges from Russia and the challenges from the south and southeast. The first track in the plan is the reinsurance measures already undertaken and implemented by the alliance, to which Denmark has contributed. These include Baltic Air Policing, conducting surveillance flights over the Baltic Sea and participating in exercises and training activities in the Baltic States. Denmark will continue to participate in actions for those Member States that feel particularly vulnerable, and Denmark will contribute in 2015 with a wide range of activities, including exercises in the framework of NATO reinsurance actions. Denmark will be present for water, water and air. The second track of the plan is the adaptation of NATO's structure and forces in order to take account of the changed security policy situation. Among other things: We will increase the number of personnel at the Danish-German-Polish headquarters in Stettin, Poland. In addition, NATO will establish a special rapid reaction force on the basis of the existing NATO Response Force. The work on implementing the decisions of the Wales Summit will continue until the next Warsaw Summit in 2016. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that Denmark is one of the countries which is long ahead in deploying troops in relation to international missions, and Denmark continues to play a very important role in NATO in this regard too. 2014 was also the year when the international community faced a humanitarian disaster in West Africa in the form of the unprecedented Ebola outbreak in recent times, with thousands of deaths mainly in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. The WHO forecast was at one point that up to a million people could be infected with ebola. Fortunately, it now seems that the figure is falling, not least because the international community, including Denmark, is working together effectively to combat ebola. The authorities within the Ministry of Defence have also taken part in that task, and I would like to thank and also express my great appreciation today, and I know that this is something that is shared by the entire Parliament of Health Careers and the people from the Emergency Management Board who went to Sierra Leone and who have done an important job and who, for some, have celebrated Christmas by caring for patients while we others could be with our family. I am proud that Denmark has been in the front line and that we are helping to make a difference, including when it comes to the fight against ebola. It must therefore be said that it has been a year in which the Danish defence, but also large parts of our preparedness and a great many civilians, have been in action. It is an expression that Denmark plays a role internationally, that we can help influence what is happening in the world, and that we also have an interest in being present; that Denmark is a country that can be expected when help is needed, that Denmark is a country that is not content with toast speeches, but is also prepared to make an effort. Those who deserve the great thanks and recognition in this context are the men and women who, whether military or civilian, or from our preparedness, go out and many times under very difficult conditions and sometimes also at the risk of their own lives. They are the ones who deserve recognition, they are the ones who deserve thanks. It's the heroes of everyday life. And I'm sure the whole Folketing shares that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203164117	We thank the Secretary of Defense. There are no brief comments, and since no one else has asked for the floor, the debate and therefore this item is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203164139	The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Pind from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203164148	As our rapporteur, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, cannot be present because of a meeting in Brussels, I must state the following: in his early days the government had a minister for Europe, in fact Denmark's first permanent Minister for European Affairs, with the Prime Minister's words. However, the post was never successful for several different reasons and was quickly buried as part of one of the government's several government raids. When I mention this today, it is because the original intention, which was behind the creation of the post of Minister for European Affairs, was actually both sympathetic and right, namely that Denmark's impact in Brussels should be increased and we should contribute with an independent Danish impression on EU policy. That an independent office of European ministers was then not the right way to do it, yes, that is another matter. But the idea of betting on greater influence was right. It is therefore also a pity that the government does not seem to have met its own expectations. Today, if we look critically at the government's European policy, I find it difficult to see the independent imprint on the policy of the Council and the European Council. The government does not seem to be drawing in an independent direction, but sees itself as a consensualist and therefore lets its policy follow the lowest common denominator. This is perhaps the most obvious in relation to the Ukraine crisis, where the Foreign Minister, on the question of sanctions against Russia, has indicated in the Committee on European Affairs that the Danish policy is to lie in the middle line rather than to try to influence politics actively. Similarly, in preparing the Commission's new work programme, we see that the government has not sought to influence the process. The government has therefore not actively addressed the question of whether individual legislative proposals should be dropped altogether, as the Commission has quite exceptionally proposed. There is otherwise broad support in the Folketing to work to withdraw the proposal on women's quotas from the work programme, to name but one proposal. Now that the government essentially leaves European policy to the officials, the Left would have liked to see much more effort being made to place more skilled Danish officials in the European institutions. The number is now decreasing, and virtually no Danish is the concours test, which gives access to employment in, for example, the Commission. At the request of the Left, the European Minister mentioned earlier set up a task force to deal with the problem. Today, the recommendations of the Task Force lie safely in a drawer, and we see that the number of Danish officials continues to decline as more and more Danish officials in Brussels retire. Most recently, with the creation of the new Commission, we have seen that the number of Danish seats in the private offices of individual Commissioners has fallen. To this it is just to say that I am surprised that the government does not take the issue more seriously, but simply looks at it passively. In my speech, I have focused a great deal on the policy pursued by the government in Brussels. Let me conclude, therefore, by signing for the European policy pursued at home, where the government has recently reached a broad agreement to transform the Danish legal reservation into an option model. It is gratifying that the government has chosen to take a stand against the reservation of law, which today favours criminals and creates a number of difficulties for our business community. The Left, of course, fully supports a new electoral model and looks forward to an objective and qualified debate towards a referendum to take place at the latest in the first quarter of 2016. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203164516	Thank you, sir. Søren Pind. I give the floor to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Morten Bødskov of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203164528	Thank you. Imagine what Europe would have looked like if we had not had the European Union today. Then we could very well have been in a situation where the European Union had been divided into a host of conflicts between itself and how to deal with the huge crisis that hit us here in 2008-09; conflicts with unfavourable competition about the way out of the crisis; conflicts based on alliances between former allies in response to the conflicts that are in our neighbourhoods; no joint responsibility; no joint commitments; no common view of how Europe together gets the best out of the crisis; overall finding new ways of growth and prosperity in a world where Asia and North America just roar out there. Luckily, it's not like that. In fact, the European Union has shown itself to be strong. The cohesion of a major and historic economic crisis has been strengthened. The answer to external threats and conflicts is not internal dissension, as it has been in the past, but indeed, as we have heard here today, constant common pressure to put an end to conflicts. The European Union is far from perfect and much can be done differently and better, but the alternative is worse. That is why today's debate on the report is also a good opportunity to focus on the responses we, together in Europe, have to find the challenges we are facing now. And there are many: how do we get out of the crisis more quickly? How can the EU contribute to further growth and prosperity, including here in Denmark? How do we together create the technological lead to secure thousands of new jobs in the coming years? And how do we get the strongest possible common defence in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime? The progress we have to make in jobs must be responsible now and here, and it must, of course, also be accountable to the generations that are coming after us. In recent years, there has been a great deal of effort to clean up the crisis. After gigantic bank crashes, threatening state bankruptcy and hard recovery plans, it is now time to look ahead. Growth must go up and, in popular terms, unemployment down. That is why the Heads of State or Government have presented five strategic priorities for EU cooperation, which will be central in the coming years, and for the work on new prosperity in the European Union. We have already heard about the issue of climate and energy here today in the previous debate. It will also play a central role here. Thousands of new jobs await, even for Denmark, if together in Europe we can secure sufficient investment in research and development, so that we have the best answers to the demands for climate-friendly solutions in energy, housing, consumption and production. At the same time, the issue of climate and energy is also a key issue in foreign and security policy. Right now, the conflicts in the neighbourhoods of the European Union demonstrate very clearly the need for the European Union to continue its work on the independence of gas and oil from dubious and aggressive states and dictatorships, which, after all, do not in any way share the values that we live by in Europe or in Denmark. That is why the new objectives of the EU's climate and energy policy are important. It is therefore important that we continue the current ambitious climate and energy policy on the Danish side as well as on the Danish side. This is an essential contribution to achieving the European Union's objectives. This strengthens our opportunities in the fight for future growth and jobs, and it helps to ensure that Denmark and the EU's dependence on dubious states and dictatorships is reduced. Here and now, looking forward, more jobs and more growth in the European Union must be created. There is no doubt that the crisis has been tough. It has been with Denmark, and it has been with the European Union. In Denmark, a responsible economic policy has ensured that we can now again invest in our common welfare, that unemployment is falling and that employment is rising. The Danish economy is strong, and right now we get great roses in almost all the studies that are being made by the welfare societies with which we usually compare ourselves. A number of European countries have been very hard and are still very hard hit by the economic crisis. After all, as we can see and hear in the European debate these days, economic disorder, lack of reforms and investment have plunged certain countries into historical crises. EU cooperation has helped with giant rescue packages, but the problems are still very great. Unemployment, not least youth unemployment, is enormous, the insecurity of societies is similar, and that is something we should all understand. We must not relax our efforts to ensure healthy economies. This is the basis for future-proof and healthy growth. Everyone can see that large government deficits, banks in freedom of movement, opaque economies and tax systems without any special control are the direct way into the crisis. It is the responsibility of the countries concerned to ensure that the economy is sound. No one should be in any doubt about that. It seems to have never been seen that the neighbor both finds himself in the noise of the party and then gladly bows to be allowed to pay the bill. EU cooperation helps, it is clear, but of course not without conditions. At the same time, we must remember that we in the Community must now strengthen the opportunities for new growth and more jobs, and here the European Commission's new investment plan will play a key role. More than 300 billion. The euro is an opportunity to play a decisive role in investment in infrastructure, education, research, renewable energy and, above all, better conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in the coming years. EU cooperation must now deliver, including in the area of growth and employment. More growth must be created and more jobs must be created and, of course, it is essential for us in the Socialists that this should happen. It is clear that the EU's internal market is a gain for Denmark. Up to half a million jobs will help to secure in Denmark, but more needs to be done, and we must, of course, ensure that the new jobs that are going to work in decent and Danish terms of pay and employment, so that the EU becomes a stronger response to the insecurity and fear of unemployment created by the crisis. Another element that we are going to discuss is the consequences of the terrible attack on Charlie Hebdo, which has also been debated earlier today, and which has once again demonstrated the need for closer cooperation in the fight against terrorism and in the fight against cross-border crime. The attack was a detestable act and an attack on our common European values. We must cooperate more closely in preventing and combating terrorism in Europe. The threat is high and the lack of cooperation must not give the terrorists a head start in their terrible and terrible deeds. That is why we need EU cooperation on the exchange and use of information on air passengers. I can just give you one example. It is the so-called PNR system as it is called. Information on travel routes and travel patterns plays a key role in the investigation of, inter alia: drug crime, trafficking in human beings and terrorism. Some may remember the so-called Gllasvejsag, which we had in Denmark. This is one of the most serious attempts at terrorism that we have had in Denmark and which has been uprooted. That case was initiated on the basis of exactly passenger data. In the view of the Socialists, a new European system must help to strengthen the ability of the authorities to use passenger data in the fight against terrorism and other serious crime. That is very sensible and, of course, it must be done in the right legal framework, it goes without saying. Combating cross-border crime remains a key challenge for our EU cooperation. Look at cybercrime, trafficking in human beings with asylum seekers and prostitutes, drug and burglary crimes and actually also travelling criminal gangs. It is just to mention some of the types of crime that in these years seriously challenge us, our cohesion and, above all, our police. The problem for Denmark is that our legal reservation can mean that we are now going to have to leave precisely this cooperation where we are fighting cross-border crime in the European Union. It'll be a disaster if it ends like this. Denmark will be reduced to the weak link in the fight against cross-border crime in Europe. We are being sidetracked, and that is for the benefit of only one group, namely the criminals. A large part of the debate on the reservation of rights has, of course, concentrated on the consequences of Denmark having to leave Europol because of the reservation of law, and there is in fact a good reason why the debate has concentrated on it. For without close cooperation with the police in other European countries, the reality is that our own police, our Danish police, are at the mercy of the fight against cross-border crime. In fact, Denmark is using help from European police cooperation, Europol, to solve crime thousands of times a year. This European police cooperation has been developing for many years. In recent years, therefore, cooperation in the area of justice in the European Union has become much more delicate and more effective. In the fight against terrorism, as I said, the Socialists believe that a new system for the exchange and use of information on air passengers should be put in place. The problem is, here too, that our legal reservation means that Denmark cannot participate in this cooperation, and that applies, however important it is to the common fight against terrorism for the security of all of us. Another measure that our reservations stand in the way of is the proposal for a European Investigation Order. Here the consequence of the Danish legal reservation will be that the Danish authorities' request for, for example, evidence from other countries' police forces could risk ending up at the bottom of the pile and not being subject to the new deadlines that will apply to, for example, the prosecutor and the police officer in other countries. Summa summarum, the restraining order only benefits one group, namely the criminals. That's why we have to get rid of it. This is a good example of what the Socialists think about the European Union, namely that Denmark should be placed as close as possible to the core of EU cooperation. Why? Because it is for the benefit of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203165651	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. I give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203165659	Thank you. I was just looking out the window, and then I thought that we have been sitting down here for a few hours now, partly with a security policy statement and partly now with an account of developments in EU cooperation last year. And when you look out the window like that, when there's a little snow out there and people keep in line, maybe that's not what most people care about. And you actually see very clearly, typically when we discuss things in connection with the European Union, that this may not be what people care most about. That is a pity, because although I disagree very much with Mr. Morten Bødskov and with many in here, I still think it is a pity that it is not discussed precisely because it has such an effect on what is actually happening in Denmark. Then it is a pity that there are no more people who are much more interested in it. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. It was a little different to read, among other things. of course, because there were elections to the European Parliament last year, when it could be said that what was characteristic of the elections was that several of the EU's critical parties around Europe prospered and that there was therefore also a decline in the EU-friendly parties. That is, of course, something I want to highlight, because I think it is positive. I am quite sure that there is no majority in this Chamber to like that, but I think it is positive, and it seems to the Danish People's Party. It is, of course, the case with EU cooperation that all cooperation is usually good. I think most of us think so, especially in Denmark, because we are so used to working together across borders. But what is also important is to remember that each of us has our own integrity, that each of us has our own opinions and that we also have to respect each other's opinions and that, therefore, we do not necessarily have to agree on everything, even if we work together. I think that is perhaps what characterises the European Union, namely that it has said: 'Well, we have to be totally in agreement, all 28 countries that are part of it, otherwise nothing can be done in general.' I would like to say that after this election, there are some positive things for the European Parliament. Among other things: I think it is a good thing that Commissioners are now going to participate in several thematic project teams, where they try to do something cross-politically we all know about that and where they try to say: what are we going to work together on? and where political direction is sought in relation to the proposals made by the Commission. Perhaps something positive can come of this. At the same time, it has also been said that one will try to focus on the major challenges, precisely with these five priorities that one has. And I think that is also a positive thing: the European Union is dealing with what it makes sense for the European Union to be concerned with, and perhaps it will also drop the completely ridiculous proposals that exist on women's quotas, and what do I know about which, at least, we have a lot of debates, because most of them can be taken into account, but which it does not make sense for the European Union to govern. I also think it is positive that the European Union has decided that, in future, after the elections, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality must be respected more fully. It is impressive that it is in a statement. It can be said that cooperation has worked for so many years, and it should have been said from the outset that this is precisely what we need to respect: that there is a principle of subsidiarity and that there is some proportionality in what we are proposing. It makes much better sense. Then perhaps I think it would have been a very different debate we had had in 2014, since Denmark's membership has now lasted since 1973, precisely because perhaps we would have had a little more respect for the proposals coming from the EU if the EU had stuck to the overall plan rather than trying to regulate detail. I think it is a good thing that we are going through some of the existing rules in an attempt to ensure that there is less bureaucracy, in an attempt to sank in some areas where it has basically been completely headless with some of those proposals. 2014 was also the year in which it can be said that the actual structure of the banking union was negotiated, where the settlement mechanism has been negotiated and where the actual supervisory part of the banking union has entered into force. It is clear that it must be up and running and so on. There you can just say that I look forward very much to hearing when we get that government's position on the banking union, and I also look forward to having an assessment of whether Denmark gives up sovereignty and whether we are going to have a referendum. I believe, in principle, that we should have a referendum. We in the Danish People's Party do that about a great many things, especially when it comes to the European Union. It's very rare that we get it, so let's see. I would like to say that when we are discussing in the European Union, there are some problems that I think should be taken seriously. Now we had a socialist statement, I was about to say, or a long speech about the reservation of law and how important it is to have it removed. I was thinking that I could, in general terms, take all the words of Morten Bødskov about these cross-border criminals, who benefit greatly from the fact that we have a legal reservation, and then say: is it not really something they have been given by the majority in this House that we have chosen to be part of Schengen? Because, as we are part of Schengen, we have actually accepted that there are virtually no borders in the European Union, and that must mean that when we discuss cross-border crime, it must be in and out of the European Union and not between nation states, because we have no borders in general. At least that is how we should see it as EU citizens. And that is nonsense, because if you really want to get hold of the criminals, it will be common sense, common logic, that you do it, of course, where there are some transitions. I'm not so naive, so we're not in the Danish People's Party to think that people can't get in anyway, and of course you can't get everybody. But it is all the other equally remarkable that, when we had increased control, we also caught considerably more. The funny thing about that is that when we discuss cross-border crime, it has no effect whatsoever that we get more officers or customs officers at the Danish border, but it has a huge effect that Frontex is strengthened. It has a tremendous effect on the EU's external borders, and that is remarkable. I have a lot of irony in my voice now, and I am hurrying to say so that it is not misunderstood. I would also like to say that I am a little surprised, because as late as today there was indeed a message from a Socialist MEP who says that because there are problems with the EU's external borders, we can move them. We know that we have problems down by Greece. We know that we have some countries that cannot handle the flows that enter the European Union and that cannot manage to monitor who comes in and out of the European Union via their country. There is the proposal simply: well, it may be that for a period of time until it gets up and running, you can move the EU's external border. I must then perhaps put the question to the Socialists or to the government somewhere there, on the one hand, whether you agree with that statement and, on the other hand, whether it means recognizing that border controls can actually have an effect. 'Cause I think that's probably so important. At first glance, these statements are fine. I think it started out by saying that it is a little too bad that we are not discussing the European Union anymore, but I also know, and I recognise that there are many people who think it is boring. I do not think so myself, but I recognise that there are many who think so. In fact, I think it is very, very important that we discuss this much more than we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203170542	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. I give the floor to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203170552	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. I think we certainly agree on one thing, and that is that EU policy is exciting to discuss. This may also be one of the only things we agree on in the EU area, but I think that is certainly a good starting point. Thank you to the Minister for the presentation on the development of EU cooperation 2014. It has been an eventful 2014 with among others. elections to the European Parliament, a referendum on the patent court and the appointment of a new commission. The most important thing, however, is the content and objective of European cooperation, and I shall concentrate on that in the following. For the Radicals, European cooperation is about people. Behind regulations, directives, legislative acts, Council meetings, and all that is called, there is in fact a real desire to create a safe and secure Europe, a place where we can actually as people move safely, unhindered across borders without border barriers, where we can sell our goods freely to each other, and where we and our grandchildren can actually have clean drinking water and clean air in the future too. We can only get that if we have strong European cooperation, where Denmark is very close to the heart of Europe. That is why I am also looking forward to having a referendum by the beginning of 2016 at the latest to allow us to abolish the reservation of law and replace it with an option model. A 'yes' to the abolition of legal reservations is a 'yes' to the effective fight against cross-border international crime, but it is also a 'yes' to better conditions for Danish companies and citizens in the legal field. Security is also about being able to support itself and itss, which is why we also look forward in the Radicals to the implementation of the Commission's proposals in 2014 for the big investment plan. We believe that this can really create many new jobs in Denmark and in Europe. We also believe that investing in better transport networks, better energy networks and better digital networks will create a more competitive Europe. The serious climate and energy challenges can only be solved across borders in Europe. So the environment is not familiar with national borders. The shared climate and energy objectives agreed by the European Union in 2014 are therefore an extremely important milestone. Without a consensus in Europe, it will in fact be difficult in the forthcoming climate negotiations in Paris to convince other countries of the importance of common climate targets to which all the countries of the world must commit themselves. For the Radical Left, the European Union is also the project of peace. This may sound extremely important, but it is therefore through cooperation and dialogue and mutual respect for the diversity of the Member States that we ensure peace in Europe. This applies, in particular, to the cohesion of the European Union in relation to the crisis between Ukraine and Russia. If we had not had that cohesion in 2014 between the EU countries, I think it would have been difficult to apply these sanctions to Russia, and the effects would probably have been more limited as well. Is everything with European cooperation so rosy for the Radicals? some may ask. The answer, of course, is no, we still have a lot to fight for. However, our answer is not that we should then stay out of the European Union. Our answer is that we need fewer reservations. We should not question the legitimacy of the European Court of Justice, but recognise that it is a court in line with Danish courts. Nor do we want border barriers to be introduced. That means, for us, that we have to solve those problems, we actually need to get closer to cooperation in Europe in order to gain influence. We are also pragmatic, we are also patient. We know that things sometimes move slowly, but as long as they move in the right direction, we are still optimists. That is why I would like to conclude by expressing the satisfaction of the Radical Left that, just before Christmas, a large majority of the Folketing reached an agreement on Europol. It stresses the importance of Denmark remaining as close to the heart of the European Union as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203171013	Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Helge Vagn Jacobsen and gives the floor to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203171029	It is in Danish interest that we have a strong and well-functioning European Union that can play a role on the global stage as a counterweight to major powers such as the United States and China as well as others. It is important that we in Europe can solve our own problems and solve the cross-border problems that exist in our continent that we have cooperation based on a legal system. It is, of course, the special thing about the European Union that there is a legal system; that it is the law and not the power that is the starting point for this cooperation. There are many historical reasons for this, and it is an important point that we keep sticking to it and that, in that sense, the European Union is a very, very important part of a peace project, as it has been called, which has played a very, very important role in relation to the former Yugoslavia, at least, and continues to do so in relation to a number of those countries. Mrs. Pia Adelsteen had a little discussion about whether it was boring. She didn't think it was boring. I think it should be quite simply that it is supposed to be boring. The point is that instead of cutting off one another's heads or shooting each other's heads, you sit in the negotiating rooms night after night, night after night, discussing fishing quotas, harmonisation of bull semen, solvency key requirements for banks, all the boring things that the European Union is packed with. That is what makes it possible to get a team together, which is based on discussing with each other, negotiating with each other, fighting battles in the negotiating rooms, instead of doing so on the battlefield. That's why it has to be boring. There is no need to be embarrassed about it, for that is simply the whole point of it. That is why I think we should also be aware of the fact that this is actually an important point, in other words that in the economic field, and it is often boring, cooperation starts, which is what is the whole starting point for the European Union, and that cooperation must then move on to greater political cooperation. So there is no need to discuss it or be ashamed of it, I would say to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. We must be proud that this is a boring hurrah for the boring EU! That does not mean that there are no problems, because there are many problems in European cooperation. People's support crumbles in many places. It is an interesting development that has taken place. I was, as one might recall, even reasonably active there in 1992 in the first Maastricht vote, and it came as a shock at the time that we said no to that treaty. Because could it be done? After all, it has become apparent that there has since been a discussion in a number of other countries. Some people often blame us for recommending a 'no' at the time, but I thought it was right to do so and it was and it has also had the healthy function of having to bring EU policy down to a popular level, to a grassroots level. It is clear that democracy can be risky and that it can happen that people have different opinions than politicians want them to have. But then there is nothing else to do but to convince them that it is right to follow what you want to follow. However, it is obvious that there is less popular support in a number of countries than there were in the past, and especially in relation to Great Britain, it is quite, quite significant how they are actually at risk of smoking out of the European Union. After all, the British Prime Minister has promised a referendum after the British elections later this year, and in most cases it may be very, very difficult to maintain Britain within the European Union. It is an important task for the other EU countries to take that discussion quite seriously. Well, there are a lot of people who think that I do too that it would be worse for Britain itself. It's not gonna be Britain, it's gonna be little England instead. But I also believe that we in Europe have a very, very strong interest in maintaining that country's cooperation. We have a very, very great interest in that. So there should be a common interest in having, if I may say so, properly dealt with the British situation. Following on from that and it is not so much in relation to Britain, but a number of other countries have emerged nationalist right-wing populist forces. This is a development that we have seen in Europe in recent years, which we must of course take seriously and which I know is being taken seriously in the various places. In my opinion, it has a lot to do with the social challenges that exist and the economic problems that exist, for example. unemployment and which has become part of everyday life in many places. But it is absolutely essential that we work to ensure that it does not end up in right populism and something worse than that. Then I would like to say a little about the whole economic situation, because I think that is quite important now, even in the wake of the Greek elections, which we had a good week ago. Syraza, the left-wing party, which appeared as the only alternative to the old corrupted Greek parties, won the elections very, very prominently on a programme in which realism can of course be discussed, but which is nevertheless a wish and a hope that there will be another development in Greece, and also in other European countries. If it were just Greece, you might say: okay, it's just a Greek problem. And the Greek situation is to this extent reasonable Greek, to put it this way specifically in relation to developments in which Greek politicians have been neglecting that country for many, many years. The problem is that it is not only Greece that has taken up that discussion, it is also other countries of southern Europe. In Spain there is a similar movement which is growing quite strongly, including Portugal and Italy. This means that a dividing line is emerging between southern Europe and northern Europe, where France is, moreover, slightly more south-oriented than other northern European countries. And we need to discuss this in a proper way on our continent, a discussion which is basically very much concerned with whether to continue with it, if I may say so, the German economic model, which is a very, very strict economic policy, what is called austerity policy, where the tight economic policy is above getting employment and growth going again. There are some who say that there is no contradiction between that and there is a major economic discussion about that. But at any rate it is a political debate that is currently in Europe, where the countries of southern Europe would very much like to have a little relaxation in economic policy, for example. in relation to public investment in energy, in green conversion, in infrastructure projects. They would like to be relaxed in relation to the opportunities for countries to start doing so. The Commission is, in fact, well aware that there is a problem here, and that is also why the Juncker Plan came forward this autumn, and it might lead to investment in a number of European countries. We can hope that will actually be the result, and we can also hope that the monetary policy relaxation we have seen with the ECB will also create more consumption and more investment. But I am not sure that is enough, and that is why I think the Danish Government should perhaps reconsider that very, very strong support for the Merkel austerity policy. For example: In relation to the investment side, energy investments, infrastructure investments, there might well be reason to give Member States a little bit of grace to increase slightly in this area. I think it would have as much effect as the Juncker Plan does. And we have to anticipate that the Greek elections will give rise to a new debate on Europe's economic policy, which is why I would like the Danish Government to be a little more open to the views of the southern European countries. There will be a debate on judicial cooperation. We are in favour of a referendum; we ourselves have certain shares in the fact that the exception came into being at the time. Interestingly, the parties that wish to maintain the derogation today were very opposed to it in the 1993 referendum, but that is the way it is. When we were sitting up there in Poul Nyrup's office in October 1992 negotiating the national compromise, we had some very vague ideas about what developments would be. For what was interesting about the Maastricht Treaty was that there were some very tough legal clauses that were amended, on the one hand, and a number of political objectives, and on the other hand, the political objectives were not very precise. They were, in fact, rather vague in terms of foreign policy and defence policy and also in terms of justice. And that's why we had to sort out what we were afraid of could be the consequence of that, and that was the kind of European FBI I'm gonna stop soon, President-in-Office of the European Common Police Office etc. And it has turned out that it is a completely different legal cooperation that is built up and that there are a number of quite pragmatic reasons for pragmatic reasons that we should have the connection model that lies in the presentation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203172143	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. I am sorry, but in any case I have to respect the Rules of Procedure and the speaking time. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203172204	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your statement. It reflects factual facts on which we cannot disagree, but it also reflects how different we look at the world in this case the European Union. The statement states, for example, that the European Union plays an important role in safeguarding our prosperity and our values. I do not think that the more than 20 million unemployed in the European Union and the approx. According to Eurostat's own estimates, 120 million people are at risk of poverty. Nor do I believe that the people of southern Europe or the 4 million working poor in Germany can recognize that picture. All over Europe, of course, we can now see how the EU's austerity policy has failed both economically and socially. A humanitarian crisis has been created in several parts of southern Europe, where children pass out in schools because of malnutrition and where ordinary people cannot afford the necessary medicines. The human consequences of the cuts have been extreme: poverty, hunger and unemployment. Diseases like tuberculosis have reappeared in Europe, and several countries such as Portugal, Greece and Spain are being forced to privatise everything of value in the country for a candy. It now falls into the hands of German banks or Chinese investors. After all, economic austerity policy has also failed. After all, growth has not been successful, and it goes without saying that when people become poorer and there are more unemployed, among other things. Because of redundancies in the public sector, who will soon be able to afford to buy the goods that would create some turnover and some more jobs? And that is probably the real reason why we saw an EU parliamentary election in which the people supported parties that were opponents or critics of the European Union. It is probably not only because it is boring to hear about the European Union; it is enough because sometimes it is very exciting when it affects your job and well-being. Unfortunately, many voters reacted by relying on populist and right-wing radical parties. This is a dangerous development which can only be averted if the EU countries concentrate on ensuring the welfare, education and democratic influence of the general population rather than centralisation, privatisation and cuts. Fortunately, the people of Greece have chosen to go another way. At the last elections, they turned down the cut-off rate and brought Syria to power. This party has already started the process of social recovery and wants the debt to be renegotiated. The Syrian agenda is not to borrow more money, but to find a realistic model of payment. The reaction of the Greek people is due to the fact that it is not the private Greek who has lived beyond their ability, but that it is they who have come to pay the price while a small handful of rich people have done quite well. The Greeks have noticed that the EU's aid packages were no help, but have simply pushed them even further into the swamp to save Greek and foreign banks. That is why it is absolutely crucial that the Danish Government supports Syria in getting a good agreement so that they can implement the social recovery. Denmark should also support Syria's proposal for a debt conference where the hardest hit and hardest hit countries can have a debt relief so that they have a real chance of getting on their feet. If the wheels are to be speeded up, development in Europe must be created. There is no point in relying on the reduction policy to work at some point in time. It is also a question of Danish jobs, since the European Union plays a major role in our trade. That is why Denmark must take the lead in stopping the reduction policy at home and speak against it in the European Union. Unfortunately, the government apparently intends to move in the opposite direction in order to get fully into the core of the European Union, as they say it must become more and more boring as you get right into the centre; then you have to die of boredom. It turns out, for example. in the government's warm support for the banking union, which removes the last remnants of countries' opportunities to pursue an independent fiscal policy. We can only encourage the government to come out with the language before we go to the parliamentary elections: Should Denmark join the banking union that the government is so fond of, and is the government going to ask the people? Indeed, the government has intended to do so when it comes to abolishing the reservation of the law. Of course, we must work together at European level and with countries outside the European Union, not least to combat cross-border crime, including, not least, trafficking in human beings and the organisation of illegal work. After all, all the other countries have an interest in this, so it is quite misleading for the public to claim that such cooperation can only be achieved if we abandon the reservation of law, which, in the view of Enhedslisten, will only lead to the opening of a barn door for the deterioration of legal certainty. It is absolutely essential in a rule of law, it is absolutely fundamental in a rule of law that its citizens have a direct influence on legal rules and procedures. That influence will disappear if we abolish the reservation of the law and leave it to a chance majority of the parliament to join the EU rules slice by slice without asking the people. On another very important point, too, we must note that the European Union is part of the problem, not part of the solution. I am thinking, of course, of increasing social dumping, which is primarily the result of the rules on freedom of movement, which place economic freedoms above professional and social rights. We can see it every day in a large number of vulnerable industries in this country where foreign workers are abused, systematically imported by Danish companies to work under miserable terms and conditions. This puts great pressure on the Danish labour market, on the Danish collective agreement and welfare model. Here we have received no help from the European Union, on the contrary. The Commission and the Court of Justice are constantly interfering if they see the slightest danger that the initiatives of the Member States and the trade unions may endanger freedom of movement. The latest example is the Commission's great interest and concern in the German law on minimum wages, which could otherwise make a very good contribution to reducing social dumping on the road. We have also felt it here in Denmark, where the Commission has rejected our modest attempt to slow down cabotage or question whether arms and legs companies should be registered in the so-called RUT register for foreign companies. In short, the Member States' and trade unions' ability to protect themselves against social dumping has been severely restricted. The Danish Government should therefore support the European trade union movement's call for a social protocol to be attached to the Treaty to ensure that professional and social rights are placed above the rules of free movement. If the government and the very EU-friendly parties here in the Folketing really want to secure public support for the EU project in the long term, they will have to follow the proposals and ideas I have set out here. Unfortunately, I think it has to be said that otherwise, if you choose not to listen to the Enhedslisten, it will probably work for them, as did the old parties in the recent elections in Greece.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203173016	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203173028	I have the pleasure of reading out a speech from the European political rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Mette Bock, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be here, but I will stand up for all our policy no matter what. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for explaining the development of EU cooperation in 2014. The report emphasises that membership of the European Union is not only important in terms of our security, but also plays a crucial role in ensuring Denmark's prosperity. Over the next 20 years, the world economy will double and the global power structure will shift towards the development of the new Western economies, no emerging economies, unfortunately not the first, in Asia, Latin America and Africa. That is why we must ensure an economically strong Europe. It's as true as it's written. Not least on that backdrop, it was remarkable to listen to the Vice-President of the Commission, Frans Timmermanns, who visited Parliament last week. He referred to Barroso's iconic statements that the EU must be large in relation to the big issues and small in relation to the small issues. That is why the Socialist Timmermanns was very concerned that the hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union should no longer, as now, regard the European Union as a mastodon that constantly hinders activity and growth. No, now all these companies must be made to understand that the European Union will remove obstacles and promote growth. Thank you, thank you and thank you. But let's see if the words come true. If the goal is to be achieved, the Danish Government, regardless of its party colour, must begin to think critically, narrowly and focused in EU policy. Today, the EU is dealing with everything from school fruit to plastic bags to gender quotas and banking union. The lack of focus last year appeared in the strong progress of EU sceptics in the parliamentary elections. Citizens of the Member States are increasingly seeing that activists and bureaucrats of the European Union are simply forgetting the original aims of cooperation: peace, freedom and free trade. In addition, a number of Member States are tired of having to keep their hands on irresponsible South Europeans who are totally uncontrollable, just as the people are increasingly tired of welfare tourism and the detailed regulation of the activities of ordinary companies. We also see the increasing EU skepticism in Denmark. It is hardly due to a lack of talks that the so-called EU positive parties have failed to reach agreement on a common EU agreement in 2013 or in 2014. The party backers clearly do not share the EU's cheer of the parliamentary groups, and it will be exciting to follow developments. In the Liberal Alliance, we continue to support membership of the European Union, but we want a narrow and focused European Union. We welcome it if there are referendums on all reservations and we also want a referendum on participation in the banking union. On the other hand, we recommend a 'no' to the abolition of reservations, with the exception of the defence reserve, and a 'no' to membership of the banking union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203173403	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. The last rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr Seligman. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203173430	Here too, as in the debate we have just had on security policy, I would like to thank the government for its statement. It is, of course, a statement that well illustrates how many challenges there are in Europe that we are trying to solve jointly between the European countries. After all, the European Union is a democracy between nations. Had we not had it, we would have had a chaos of decisions in Europe where large countries would control small countries and where Denmark's influence would have been considerably less. It was therefore very gratifying that, shortly after the Second World War, we began to develop what is today the European Union, which guarantees peace and security in Europe, but, of course, also contributes to the growth and prosperity of Europeans, not least through the creation of the internal market, which we may still be able to strengthen further. Denmark is part of Europe. I don't think most people would dispute that. And when we are part of Europe, the challenges that other countries in Europe have are also challenges that we have and the decisions that are taken in terms of how to respond to the challenges are also answers and solutions that we Danes are affected by. That is why, of course, when we are part of Europe, we must also be part of the European Union, and when we are going to do so, we must also be at the centre of the European Union, so that we have the influence and benefits of the cooperation that exists. And so have we. In the last year there has been a shift in what I had almost said was management in Europe. There have been parliamentary elections to the Commission. Around the countries, new Commissioners have been appointed, a new President of the Commission has been elected, and a new President of the European Council has also been elected. The parliamentary elections have to be said that everyone can see that there is growing scepticism around Europe about the fact that the European Union is spreading its rules and its regulation to ever greater areas. We must take this into account. Those of us who are strong supporters of European cooperation must be aware that we must also put a damper on regulation. In other words, we must ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is taken seriously. It has always been conservative policy, and that is why, as a conservative, I think it is gratifying that it is so strongly emphasised in the parliamentary elections that the principle of subsidiarity is something that needs to be taken seriously. There has also been a new President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, and a new Commission that is organised differently than before. In particular, I would like to point out that now in the Commission there is a first vice-president, Timmermans, who visited Parliament the other day, who was given the task of being the guardian of the principle of subsidiarity. He simply has a mandate to stop proposals for directives and other legislative proposals if that is how he considers it to be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity or subsidiarity, as it is rightly said. It is also Timmermans' job to ensure that there is a close relationship and good cooperation between the Commission and the national parliaments. I think this is a focal point in the new organisation of the Commission, which is welcome, and I hope that we will see that reality comes out of it. Finally, there is no doubt that the new President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, comes from Poland, which shows that we can now finally see the Eastern European countries, the countries that used to be on the other side of the Iron Curtain, as part of the European Union and not only a part but also a full part of the European Union. That is why I think it was a good signal to those countries that Donald Tusk became the new President of the European Council. One might then ask whether everything that has happened, this shift in the Commission and the European Parliament, the President-in-Office of the Council, is a change of symbol, or whether there is also a real shift in gear where we see things changing. Let us hope for the latest, because, as Jean-Claude Juncker also points out, we need to have a European Union that is more focused on what is essential and leaves other things more to the Member States themselves. The focus must be on growth, on jobs and on prosperity Europe. That's what we need. And then we must focus on the major cross-border challenges, the fight against cross-border crime, tackling the major climate challenge and other major issues that require joint action between European countries. I would also like to highlight the two issues, two issues, two challenges which, I believe, have first and foremost marked the work of the European Union in recent years. The first is the continuing work of recovering a strong economy after the financial crisis. It hasn't worked yet. We can still see too low growth, too many unemployed, and therefore we still need to work on it. I would then like to express my concern that the elections in Greece are the first step towards some countries in European cooperation derogating from the strict economic policy. After all, we have seen how an excessively relaxed economic policy has led to debt in those countries which can only hit the opportunity for future generations to get jobs and gain prosperity in the future. It is therefore worrying if the elections in Greece are signs that developments are beginning to move in the other direction, so that the public deficit, which is causing concern in the financial markets, is restored, and that we were in the process of recovering from the financial crisis, is once again being reduced. There is reason to maintain the course of reform in Europe in order to ensure prosperity and jobs for future generations of Europeans. The second major issue I would like to highlight is the situation in Ukraine, which is, of course, the result of the Russian aggression with the illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the aggression against East Ukraine. I and the Conservative People's Party are entirely behind what the government has taken part in with regard to tough economic sanctions against Russia, and if Russia continues its aggressive course, I also believe that economic sanctions need to be stepped up further. They have an impact on the Russian economy, but so far they have not had the effect we want on the Russian aggression that has continued. That is why we must constantly consider new steps to stem this, and so that political negotiations can be held between Ukraine and Russia on a political solution to the conflict that exists and that is caused by Russian aggression. It is so that we in Denmark are faced with two important decisions in the coming period in the field of European cooperation. One decision is whether to participate in the banking union. We shall return to that, I assume, once the government has thought it through, comes up with its presentations and has considered whether there should be a referendum, whether there should be a waiver of sovereignty, and the second resolution is the decision on Denmark's reservation of law, where it is gratifying that there is now a broad majority in the Folketing that has decided that we will have a vote on the reservation of law at the latest in one year's time to replace the reservation of law with an opt-in system that allows us, act-by-law, directive-by-directive, to decide whether it is directives that we want to be part of which we want to apply in Denmark, because it is in favour of Denmark and the Danes, or we do not want it. I think it is obvious that we should have such an option system, which we have fortunately secured in the Treaty we have, and that is why the Conservative People's Party will be fully involved in the campaign to have an opt-in system in Denmark, so that we can also enjoy the benefits of judicial cooperation and, above all, have an influence on judicial cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203174413	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203174419	Thank you very much, President, and thank you very much to the rapporteurs for the many excellent contributions from the rapporteur, which I actually think have been exciting, although I am buying Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's point is that it is always more boring when you agree that it is always more boring when EU countries agree. I can tell you a little anecdotal from our last Council meeting that I had the feeling, when we were discussing the new sanctions against Russia, that there was a press force out there almost hoping that we would have disagreed, because it would have been a better story than if we had not agreed. However, we often agree with the European Union, and this often makes it boring. However, I do not think that we are so in agreement on everything in the European Union, and that is why I would like to dwell a little on some of the issues that have been raised, because hopefully it can raise awareness of the value and necessity of European cooperation, which is my starting point. The Left was asked why we are not trying to influence EU policy more actively. I have to say, I don't recognize the picture that we shouldn't do it. Ukraine has been mentioned by Mr. Lars Barfoed. Denmark has played an extremely active role in shaping European Ukraine policy, and we continue to do so. We are establishing energy cooperation with the European Union inside Ukraine, we have taken the initiative to establish a stronger EU profile in a free and independent Russian-speaking press in Ukraine, and finally we are playing an active diplomatic role in ensuring EU unity in relation to the sanctions regime. We have been very active in the European Union in relation to Ukraine. However, it is also in 2014 that agreement has been reached on increased and strengthened European banking cooperation. There the Danish Government has also been very active and tried to protect Danish interests, not least in relation to the mortgage. And as has been said several times, we are now examining whether it is something that will require a referendum and what is of the advantages and disadvantages for Denmark by standing within or outside the result we have achieved, among other things. by an active Danish effort. A third example in an area where we have been very active is the so-called 2030 package, that is, the EU's climate and energy package. Denmark has been very active there. We have travelled around Europe trying to gather support for as ambitious and effective a package as possible, and in fact we managed to get through with a climate and energy package, which we of course and that is almost always the case for Denmark, at least in this government's time, would have liked to have seen even more ambitious, but which is far better than what might have been feared and which holds the European Union at the forefront of international climate negotiations. What are we going to do now in the coming year? Where are our priorities here? Yes, we will of course continue both with the active climate diplomacy and with the work of an energy union that is committed to the green and that we become independent of both oil and gas from the outside and thus no longer have to indirectly finance either the terror or the atrocities that we see in Ukraine. And we will promise that we will maintain a leading position in the European Union in this area if we are allowed to continue after the next parliamentary elections. But, of course, there are other areas too. Let me mention the whole area of terrorism. It is obvious that the European Union can play an even greater role here, not least in relation to preventive action, and it is also obvious that we can strengthen cooperation internally. Of course, it is also appropriate to point out here that getting rid of the legal reservation, becoming a member of Europol, and also taking part in a large number of other efforts, are essential in order to combat cross-border crime, including terrorism. I fully agree with Mr. Morten Bødskov, who seems to have put it this way: the reservation only benefits the criminals. I do not see why we should maintain it when we can have an opt-in system where we choose to join, where it gives Denmark cash benefits to be involved and where we can stand outside what we do not like. That is why I am very pleased with the agreement that has been made and I look forward to presenting the results of the analysis of the five parties that we are holding these days and our recommendation of where Denmark can benefit from and where Denmark can benefit from being outside. A third area that we are very, very concerned about in the government is the internal market and getting the whole economy back on track. This applies in some large areas such as energy, because it is a prerequisite for the inclusion of more renewable energy in our systems that we will have greater flexibility between countries and a better infrastructure; this applies to the digital sector, and it also applies to the negotiations on a larger free trade area with the United States, the so-called TTIP negotiations. There we are working actively to achieve results, but also to note results that will benefit global standards in the field of the environment and that will in general strengthen our economy. So there is enough to address in the coming years, and I can guarantee that we will do so. Let me then add a few additional comments to some of the comments that have been made by the parties. Mrs Pia Adelsteen notes that the EU's critical parties have prospered, and that was Mr Adelsteen. Holger K. Nielsen and several others also mentioned. I would like to make two comments on this. One is that it is particularly true in some countries, particularly France and England and Denmark. There are also some countries where this is not the case, for example. Italy, where a positive party made significant progress. I think it's an exciting discussion, but it's probably not gonna get any closer today. The second is whether the progress we see, particularly in France and England, is going to be made. Holger K. Nielsen spoke a little about the progress of UKIP in England and Le Pen in France, primarily due to their EU criticism or primarily due to their alien criticism or their criticism of the systems of England and France. It is a bit difficult for me to get smart, and it is not because I do not recognise that the European Union can constantly work to be better and closer to the citizen, and I will come back to that, but it is an interesting analysis of what drives these parties forward, including the Danish People's Party: is it EU criticism, or is it some other trends in the societies that drive EU critical parties forward? Then Mrs Pia Adelsteen asks: Does border controls have an effect? That is probably the most direct question I have had today. To this we must say: yes, both negative and positive effects. Border controls are expensive, border controls provide large car queues when Danes want to go south on summer holidays, border controls prevent a completely free flow of goods and services and labour, and thus it costs not only expensively administratively, but it also costs expensively in terms of barriers to trade and goods and services. That is why we are opposed to setting up booms for the rest of the world. We believe that the government believes that it is a great advantage for Danish society and for the Danes in general that we have free borders in Europe. It may well be, if you shielded Denmark with booms, that there would then also be some criminals who got harder to get in. But what about all those who are not criminals? I guess they're gonna have a hard time getting in, too. That is why the answer is to maintain the internal market and the free movement of all Danes who would like to travel both on holidays and at work, but also to strengthen cross-border cooperation in combating the crime that is at risk if we do not also cooperate there. Then Mr. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned it was Mr. Finn Sørensen and several of the rapporteurs also have the whole cooperation and the whole development we have seen in Greece. I'm gonna start by signing off to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, because I am incredibly pleased with the introductory remarks on the project of peace which Mr. Holger K. Nielsen joined us. That is also how I see the whole EU project, and I am pleased that the SF believes that the time has come to put an end to at least two of the reservations that the party helped to introduce at that time. However, when it comes to how to respond to political developments in Greece, I am more inclined to disagree with both, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen and, in particular, Mr. Finn Sørensen. I do not want to get involved in a major economic debate about what works in relation to the economic crisis, and we know very well in the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left that we disagree on that, and that is fair enough, but I do not think it makes sense to put the European Union ahead of that discussion, because the European Union's policy is what the EU countries will agree on, and that is also true in the economic field. I have to say that if you think that you are benefiting the Greek economy or the Spanish or Italian economy for that matter, by calling for countries to debt even more without making the reforms that, as far as I can see, are so obviously necessary, then I think you are doing those countries a disservice. I think it is strong tobacco to say that it is the European Union as a phenomenon that is, like, the cause of those countries' economic problems, because it is because those countries have not pursued a responsible economic policy themselves. Finally, if you are to say that the European Union is good for something, you can look at Poland and Ukraine. Ten years ago they had the same GDP per head. citizen. Today, 10 years after Poland joined the European Union, their economy has doubled per year. citizen. They have a much healthier society with economic reforms, less corruption, etc. I believe that the European Union is doing the economy well. Then Mr. Finn Sørensen, that we who are in favour of the European Union may risk the same fate in the next parliamentary elections as the EU-friendly parties in Greece. I certainly hope not, but if it should finally happen, I would certainly hope that the Enhedslisten will not join forces with the Danish People's Party and form a government, but will nevertheless maintain a slightly more pragmatic approach both in the European Union and in economic policy. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and Mr. Lars Barfoed, from the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives respectively, then says whether we should not focus more on the whole principle of subsidiarity, that is to say the principle of subsidiarity. I would like to say that this discussion seems to me to be extremely important. I believe that we EU-enthusiastic parties and politicians have been too busy finding the obvious citizens' reasons why EU cooperation is working, and have also been inclined to say that, regardless of what we do, we must work together in all areas. I think it makes sense to do the exercise that says: where is the real meaning of EU cooperation, and that we must therefore throw all Danish resources in there, and where must we say that it is really more important here to maintain a democratic tradition for decisions to be taken close to the citizens? I fully agree with that debate. I myself have recommended it and would also like to take it into account. What makes it difficult, I would hurry to say, is what I mentioned to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that there is a lot of politics in it: some will think that women's quotas are quite obvious to make common EU rules because they think that women's quotas are a really good idea in themselves, and others will say that this is a really bad idea because they do not think women's quotas are a good idea. Some people think that there should be much more climate policy and energy policy in the European Union. Lars Barfoed, because this really is a cross-border problem which can only be solved across borders, while others will be very free from the need for the European Union to set environmental standards and such things; we only have to do that in individual countries. It depends very much on the climate policy, environmental policy and legal policy that are in place. So it's hard to make an objective list of what's close and distant. That is why this discussion is going to be political, but that is precisely why it is interesting, because it is going to be about what we want to use the European Union for, and I look forward to that debate. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that, despite the lively debate that has been about what we are going to do in the European Union, it is such in Denmark that we are not discussing whether we should have a European Union, whether we should be in it, but more discussing how and to what extent, and if we can push even more that it will be the discussion, then I think we can also strengthen Denmark's position in the European Union, and I would rather not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203175758	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are a few brief comments inscribed and the first is from Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203175807	I would just like to make a brief comment. Perhaps it is also because I think this European Union should be discussed more. And then I cannot help but comment on the Minister's comment. It annoys me a little that the Minister says that it may well be that there were some EU-sceptic parties that went forward, but that it was only in a few countries. This is a bit like the fact that if the Social Democrats and the Radicals win the next parliamentary elections, then I can stand here and say that unfortunately it was not in all the municipalities that you won, so we should do an analysis of what went wrong so that we can get it right. I think that somewhere else is also to ignore the result of the elections that after all came and where it can be seen that, after all, the sceptical parties were given more seats than last time. I am well aware that they do not have a majority, but they did, after all, have more seats than last time, and that certainly showed a trend. That was just a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203175859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203175903	Yes, but I have to say that I think it was important to point out that after all, two thirds of Members of the European Parliament are still EU-positive parties, but I do not wish to deny that overall, the EU-critical bloc received more Members of the European Parliament. I recognise that, and I also recognise that it is an expression of something that needs to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203175926	The next brief comment is from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203175933	Thank you. And thank you for the Secretary of State's comments. I now did not set a date on when the government would be affected by the fate of the old parties in Greece. I certainly didn't. I did not say that it was in the next parliamentary elections, and I personally would not hope that it would be, because then there will be some others who will, and I do not think that is in favour of the Danish people. So I just wanted to clarify that. However, my comment was, of course, that if you do not want to listen to the people and do not face up to the fact that there is a growing criticism among the people of the policy pursued by the economic policy pursued, the ever-closer commitment to the EU's financial policy, then it is going to work, just as the old parties in Greece did. And I would just like the Minister to confirm that the Danish Government has, after all, been fully behind the European Union's demands to the Greek Government on the things that had to be done in order for Greece to be given the so-called aid packages: requirements for privatisation, demands for the dismissal of thousands of public employees, demands for intervention in the agreements, so that wages were pushed down to name just some of the examples of the horse cure that the Greek population has been subjected to, which has affected millions of people who have certainly not lived beyond their means. I would also like the Minister to take a look at whether he really thinks it is the private Greek who has sunk it all away and that it is therefore perfectly reasonable for them to be punished with poverty and unemployment on a massive scale.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180130	First of all, I would like to thank you for your clarification: it is not a hope that we will have a great loss in the next parliamentary elections. And then I would like to say that we must take this to such an extent that we must always take very seriously the movements that are taking place in the people of Europe. My point was not to try to distance ourselves from the policy which the European Union has pursued towards Greece, because I can confirm that the Danish Government has been behind it. My point was that it is not the European Union as an institution. It would be a bit like being against the Danish constitution or the Danish Parliament because you did not agree with all the policy that was implemented in here. What is happening at the moment is an expression of what the Danish Government, the German Government, the British Government and a large majority of EU governments think is the right policy, and that will change if the various parliaments, including the European Parliament, look different at the next elections. That's just my point. It is, of course, a political framework and the policy being pursued there is very dependent on which parties are in power. I acknowledge that it is not the private Greek who is guilty. However, I think that we are doing Greece a huge disservice if we do not carry out the economic reforms that can remedy what has brought the country all the way to where it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180257	Then the second brief remark from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180259	Thank you. It was a very philosophical distinction between the European Union and the European Union. In other words, the European Union has been represented in the troika which has dictated to the Greeks the requirements they had to meet in order to get help in paying off debts to some banks. I guess that's a fact. Then I don't think we're going to get that much further today. After all, it is a question of facing up to the fact that the policy pursued against Greece and against the countries of southern Europe has led them even further into the swamp and is causing a social disaster. Unfortunately, I cannot persuade the Minister to admit that this is a product of the policy agreed by the vast majority of EU countries, which is also enshrined in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180350	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180352	I have to say that I believe that the reason why the general people of Greece are living and we agree on this under very difficult circumstances and have major economic problems today, first and foremost, is that in the last 20 years they have had political leaders who have conducted a completely irresponsible economic policy that has debted the country bottomlessly and has made it extremely hard to correct public finances. But the answer to that is not to pump further money into a system that cannot stand on its own feet. It is then to help the patient recover and give him the opportunity to live a decent life. And I note that Greece seems to have a positive growth for the first time in many years in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180442	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed and we can move on to the next and last item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180457	The first rapporteur is Mrs Sophie Løhde from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180517	With this bill, the government is once again proposing to impose a ban on the retail sale of snuff in bulk. The Left remains opposed to such a ban, and when we last dealt with the matter in this Chamber, it was back in 2013, the Left also voted against the government's bill. We took note of the Commission's view that the Danish legal situation allowing the marketing of loose snuff is contrary to the tobacco product directive, but we noted at the same time that changing Danish governments have had the view and interpretation that the Danish tobacco product law only prohibits the marketing of snuff in portion letters, and thus that sales of snuff in Denmark are in line with the tobacco product directive. That is why we wanted to test the case before the European Court of Justice, and if Denmark were to be convicted, we also indicated at the time in Parliament that we would, of course, bring the Danish legal situation into line with EU law. What has happened since then? Yes, first of all, it has happened that the European Parliament and the Council have adopted a new tobacco product directive which replaces the current one, and according to the bill, the sale of snuff is prohibited in the new directive, which Denmark is obliged to implement by May 2016. It is no secret that we would have liked the government in the negotiations on the new directive to have actively worked for the continued legalization of sales of snuff in Denmark regardless of packaging, and that was why a majority in the Danish Parliament actually instructed the government, when the government was in the European Committee to obtain a negotiating mandate, to work against a ban on the marketing of snuff regardless of packaging. This was the mandate that the government was sent by a majority of the Folketing, but it was apparently also a mandate that the government did not take very seriously. In any case, it has to be said that the then Minister for Health was never able to put it on the agenda of the European Union or to obtain the opinion of the other Member States in the context of the discussions on the revision of the directive, and I must say that it is deeply regrettable that the government at that time chose to take so lightly the mandate given by a majority in the European Committee. From our point of view, what is regrettable is only even more regrettable when, at the same time, it has to be said that, in the context of the Commission's application to the European Court of Justice, the government has not acted in respect of the majority of the Folketing, which was of a different opinion from that used by the government. On the contrary, the government also chose to lie down flat. By the Minister for Health's answer to Question No. 20 in the European Committee, it appears, and I quote: in its defence to the European Court of Justice on 19 December 2014, the Government has responded in the affirmative to the Commission's claim, in other words, agreed with the Commission that Denmark has failed to fulfil its obligations under EU law in relation to the issue of sales of snuff in Denmark. Quote out. In other words, the government has chosen to give the Commission the right in advance instead of defending the views of the majority in the Folketing, and that means that the government has also lost any chance of winning the case before the European Court of Justice in advance. So you can say that Denmark has definitely lost this case on the floor not just once, but twice. We in the Left do not support a ban, nor do we support the government, it cannot be a surprise, but we must take note that the matter has been lost because it was given up in advance, and on that basis we support the fact that we will then have the right to comply with the new directive, which we in Denmark are obliged to comply with by May 2016 at the latest, thereby bringing the state of Danish law into line with EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180952	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203180958	It's always sad to lose a good ally. I hope we do not have that in general terms either. I don't think we have, but if nothing else, in this case. What we discussed before this proposal was the government's EU policy statement, and I could understand that many of the so-called EU positive parties are afraid that they are losing popular support for the EU project. This is really a good example of why, because it shows both the government's action and perhaps the fact that you dare not try to put your foot down and try to go against the European Union and see what would happen. The worst thing that could happen is that it ends as it ends with this proposal; it's the worst thing that could happen. Isn't it a little sad when, for once, the Left was involved in taking up the fight against the EU bureaucrats' desire to decide for the rest of us that they should give up halfway? In fact, I think it is a bit of a pity to say so, because there were a number of members of the Left Parliament Group who attended the last time we had this on. Why should Denmark once again be a doll and overimplement, and what do I know? It could be that after a parliamentary election we will have a government that is a little more sensible, so that we do not need to give this mandate to the government which has acted against the wishes of the Folketing, as the rapporteur so rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181127	But the Liberal Alliance continues to have a good ally within the liberal family. One comment on the fact that it is a pity that we do not have the courage to take part in setting our feet: that is exactly what we did when we voted in this Chamber against the legislative proposal which I recall on a stand-by basis was L 189. At that time, together with a majority, we said that we were instructing the government to take the matter up at the European Court of Justice. If we had to lose it, the view of the Left was that we would be obliged to bring Danish legislation into line with EU law. We wanted to take that fight, in parallel with the fact that we in the Committee on European Affairs helped to give the mandate that the government should uphold the view in the negotiations on the new tobacco product directive that what the future should look like is to legalise the sale of snuff regardless of packaging. So the Left hasn't given up. But the government has given up, not just once, but twice. If, therefore, we are in the situation today, if we know the tobacco product directive, what it looks like and therefore also the future situation, but we also know that the government started by giving the Commission the right in advance, how on earth should we have an earthly chance of winning a case afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181253	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181255	In other words, we are talking about the government which did not do what the Danish Parliament asked for, which is of course a parliamentary interesting thing in itself, and we are talking about the government which the Liberals think misinterpreted the previous tobacco directive and which is now our truth witness that we cannot do anything about the new tobacco directive, but why should we believe them in the second round? The last time we discussed this, the government also said that the tobacco directive at that time made it impossible for us to do what the then majority would do together with the Left. Now the rapporteur refers to the comments in the draft law and says that the government is saying again that we cannot do that with the new one, but it could be that we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181340	That is, of course, the whole question we were trying to get the government to address in the context of the negotiations on the Tobacco Products Directive. The government couldn't do that. Today, we have a new tobacco product directive which we are obliged to implement by May 2016 at the latest, and the new directive means that the sale of snuff is prohibited. We wanted to try this case before the European Court of Justice, and what I allowed myself to read was an extract from what the government has sent to the European Commission in connection with the case before the European Court of Justice, where the government says that it has taken a positive response to the Commission's claim. This means that we have agreed with the Commission. Then it is, of course, that we have to acknowledge that our options for changing this are being exhausted. We will never be in favour of imposing a ban, but we must realise that there are no more ways to go in relation to the European Commission or with regard to the tobacco product directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181448	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Stine Brix of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181454	It is well over a year ago that we last dealt with this matter, and in this connection the rapporteur from the Liberal Party said, in other words, where the rapporteur from the Left is now standing, that the Left believes that this matter should be tried at the European Court of Justice and that, if it were to be found that Denmark was convicted, the Left would like to take part in looking at bringing the rules into line with what the judgment so declared. After all, Denmark has not been convicted, there has not been a case before the European Court of Justice, and yet one year later, the Left decides to lay down flat, to give up and vote in favour of a ban on loose snuff. I simply do not understand what has happened. At the end of November we read in a few telegrams and in the daily press that the Left had now changed its position; there was no argument; it seemed that it was not very interested in making an argument. What kind of meetings have been between the Left and the Government, or what are the reasons why the Left has suddenly changed its mind? In other words, one suspects that the Left, up against the parliamentary elections to the European Union, had an interest in looking like some who were critical of the European Union and thundering against women's quotas and loose snuff bans and all sorts of other things, but when we have come across the other side of the election, then the resistance is no longer really visible. What has happened in that period since the Left will no longer vote against this ban on loose snuff?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181619	I should therefore not be able to say whether the Enhedslisten is considering this sort of thing, in relation to what is said before the elections and what is done after the elections; I think that is on the rapporteur's own account. But what has happened to this case? Two things have happened. Paragraph 1: After all, the government was unable to bring this issue up in the European Union to try to obtain the agreement of the other Member States in relation to the amendment of the Tobacco Products Directive, for which there is now a majority in favour in the European Parliament and in the Council, and which Denmark is obliged to implement by May 2016 at the latest. And paragraph 2: In its response to the European Court of Justice, the government announces that it is in complete agreement with the Commission, which means that the government has given up in advance. How on earth could we imagine anything other than the European Commission saying: OK, the government agrees with us, so that they mean the same thing as us? How, then, could you come up with something else? So, I simply find it difficult to see it, but I would like once again to regret the process that has preceded it: paragraph 1, that the mandate given to the Committee on European Affairs in the negotiations on the Tobacco Products Directive has not been upheld and paragraph 2 that the Commission has been left flat instead of taking up the fight. That is what we in the Left have given a mandate to do, and that is what we said at the time in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181744	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181749	To that extent, I fully agree with the criticism of the government made by the rapporteur, but now we are here in Parliament and Parliament can make a decision. And we actually have an opportunity, if there is a majority voting down this bill, to get on with this case and have it tried at the European Court of Justice, but we cannot have it because the Left has now decided to give up. That is what is at the heart of the matter now. We have a legislative proposal, and I even remember that when we discussed it a year ago, the rapporteur himself was kind enough to read out what the draft law was about: it is a ban on the sale of snuff. The Left is against this, but we are still voting in favour. And because you vote in favour, we no longer have an opportunity to take this matter forward and have a trial before the European Court of Justice. So it is not only the government that has given up, it is also the Left that has given up. That is really regrettable, I can only say.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181839	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181841	We simply note that the government has given up, not only once, but twice. And so it is that we in the Left are so realistic that we say: okay, when the government in its response to the European Court of Justice has written that it takes a affirmative response, what are the options left? There is no one, we must say to Mrs Stine Brix. That is why we are saying: what is the forward-looking playing field that applies to the issue of snuff? Well, that is the tobacco product directive that is to be implemented by May 2016 and which we are thus committed to implementing in Denmark. That is what we have to take note of, and that is the only reason why we have to find out today that the possibilities have been exhausted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181929	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203181935	I am glad that the Left has come down from the tall tree, for there is nothing different than when we picked it up. So it was also the case that the assessment was that we would end up losing the case, and so I would like to know: why is it that the Left suddenly means something other than they did a year ago? What is the cause of the turnaround? Now the rapporteur on the Left says to the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten: No, it was not the election that played a role. But what makes you think something different than you did a year ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182013	It is simply not true that nothing is different, and I must call on the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party to delve into the issues that lie behind it here, in relation to what has happened since the Folketing dealt with this matter in the Parliamentary Chamber in 2013. What I have explained in my rapporteur's speech has happened in relation to the negotiations on the Tobacco Products Directive with a Minister for Health, who was then from the Socialist People's Party and then later changed party to the Party of the Minister for Health, and who did not advocate the views of a majority in the Committee on European Affairs. In this way, we also lost the fight for the tobacco product directive in terms of snuff on the forward-looking front. We did not get the majority or the support of the other Member States to do anything about it. Why? Because the government didn't do anything about it. Secondly, in its response to the European Court of Justice, the government has chosen to do what is called affirmative and that is to say that the Commission has been given the right in advance. Ergo, the possibilities are exhausted if you had an interest in it, in looking at the content and saying: What can we do on the Danish side to change this? I don't see what other options there are now. So there's no turning around here. But it is simply not true when the SF's rapporteur says that nothing is different.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182133	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182135	All the things that the rapporteur has listed here were foresaw; we knew that it would end this way; we knew that if a case were to come, we would lose it. After all, that was the basis for the way the discussion was conducted, and at that time the Left did not in any way believe that they could support the proposal. Now I understand that the proposal itself is being supported, and then I ask, and that is just out of interest: what has happened in a year? For all the things that the rapporteur explains here, the Minister for Health also said at the time would end in the way they are doing today. But it is of pure interest that I ask just to know what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182217	But it is very, very interesting that the then Minister for Health, who was from the rapporteur's own party, should have told the Folketing: now I have a mandate in the European Committee, but I am not going to follow it; I am going to do something else. It is also very, very interesting if the then Minister for Health should have told us: now I have a majority in the Folketing, not with me, but against me, but I intend to lay down flat before the European Court of Justice by giving the answer that we are in complete agreement with the Commission. That information was not publicly available at the time. If the SF's rapporteur could already foresee how the negotiations on a tobacco product directive would end, then I have to say that the rapporteur has abilities beyond the usual, in terms of what can be foreseen. But it is interesting if the SF has information about all the things and about all the times you acted contrary to what a majority thought you should do, i.e. if you already knew it in advance. It is true that one begins to admit that one does not respect a majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182318	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and the next in the series of speakers is Mrs Julie Skovsby from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182330	Our health rapporteur, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, unfortunately, is prevented from taking part in the first reading today, which is why I shall read the rapporteur's speech on behalf of him. Similarly, the radical rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, has asked me today to speak on behalf of the Radicals. It obliges us to be part of a community, it also applies to the European community, and that is why, of course, we are also obliged to follow the legislation and agreements that we are involved in making within this community, and that is what the draft law is today about. The Tobacco Products Directive obliges all EU countries except Sweden to prohibit the sale of snuff. The fact that the Swedes are not covered by the ban is due to the fact that they were granted an exemption when they joined the Union in 1995, just as we were granted an exemption in the summer cottage area when we joined the Community in 1973. However, the ban on the sale of snuff applies to all EU countries other than Sweden, and it also includes the loose snuff that we know in Denmark. The fact that we here in Denmark have allowed to sell loose snuff, even after the 1992 tobacco product directive, is due to the fact that we in Denmark have misinterpreted the rules, and that is what we are now correcting. We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament attach importance to doing our part in the work when you are part of a binding community, which is why we can of course support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182520	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182534	Thank you. There's a certain déjà vu experience about this proposal. Almost two years ago, we also had exactly the same proposal. At that time, there was a majority against it. At that time, we were also faced with an EU system which considered that the Danish rules did not comply with the Tobacco Products Directive. The debate on smoking is always exciting, but today's debate is a sign of disrespect for the Folketing and a lack of respect for democratic processes. The reason for the proposal to ban the sale of snuff in Denmark is that, with a letter of formal notice of 21 June 2012, the European Commission initiated infringement proceedings against Denmark because the sale of snuff is permitted in Denmark. The commentary on the consultation responses to today's draft law states: "Supplement can be reported that on 25 February 2014, the Commission renewed its request to the Ministry of Health and Prevention with questions about the status of legal status in Denmark as regards the sale of loose snuff. In its reply to the Commission on 13 March 2014, the Ministry informed the Commission of the submission of draft law L 189 on 20 March 2013 and of Parliament's rejection of the bill at the 3rd reading on 27 June 2013. In addition, the Ministry informed the Commission that, in the context of the implementation of the new Tobacco Product Directive (Directive 2014/40/EU), the Government would seek a solution to the issue of selling loose snuff in Denmark. This solution we can now see is about lying down to the Commission and banning snuff. There is nothing about how the government has fought or will fight to live up to the contribution of the report made by the majority of the Health Committee in 2013, or how the government will respect the majority that in 2013 voted down precisely the proposal that we are dealing with now. The report's contribution from the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection to L 189 says the following about banning snuff: a majority of the committee (V, DF, EL, LA and KL) considers that the current tobacco product directive of 2001 does not contain a ban on the sale of all snuff in Denmark. These lots consider that the sale of loose snuff is legal under the current directive and note that it is a traditional product. Against this background, the proposed amendment would be contrary to the Danish interpretation of the Tobacco Products Directive to date. The majority cannot support a ban on the marketing of snuff, regardless of packaging. The majority also notes that snuff is less harmful to health than conventional cigarettes and does not cause passive smoking. I am surprised that the government, when a majority in the Danish Parliament, on the one hand through the contribution to the report, and, on the other hand, by voting down the specific draft law, is saying quite clearly to the government that the majority does not want a ban on snuff, so that it does not at least endeavour to find a solution that does not prohibit snuff. But, of course, the bill says: 'The Commission is of the opinion that the Tobacco Products Directive prohibits the sale of snuff,... It is of course a serious matter that the European Commission is of the opinion that we are not behaving properly. We in the Danish People's Party should be able to understand here that the government can of course consider nothing but to correct and do as the Commission says. In the Danish People's Party, we also know that the government would prefer to ban all tobacco products. This proposal is just a small step in that direction. In the Danish People's Party we want to keep the competence in Denmark. We want it to be the Folketing that decides whether Danish citizens can use snuff. Finally, we believe that when we talk about tobacco products, snuff is something of the less dangerous. Therefore, it is quite absurd to go so fanatical to get that ban, when it may actually make much more sense to see it as a less dangerous alternative to smoking tobacco. See, this could, of course, be a solution that the government could work towards the European Union. At least we could challenge the interpretation, the Commission's view of the directive, instead of just saying: yes, sir. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come If you mean it, we will, of course, correct it. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen, because what was the worst thing that could happen? In the end, we lost a case and came to stand here again with the same proposal. Worse, it just can't work out. That is why, of course, we will take the consequence now that we are voting against the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203182953	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203183019	The proposal we are debating today is not a proposal that is about being for or against snuff. On the other hand, we want to live up to the legislation we have been involved in adopting under the auspices of the European Union. It seems that, according to the government, most experts agree that it is contrary to the EU Tobacco Products Directive that Denmark has not yet imposed a ban on the sale of loose snuff in Denmark. The old Danish interpretation concluded that loose snuff was not covered by the ban because it could be regarded as a traditional tobacco product, but that interpretation has not proved to be correct. The possibility of an exemption covered only smoking tobacco and chewing tobacco. The exception to the snuff ban that Sweden has is of a different kind, and they already got it when they joined the European Union. The current EU ban on snuff was introduced into the amending directive for the tobacco products directive in 1992, but the Danish side had not been aware that the ban also meant a ban on the sale of snuff. Therefore, Denmark has never implemented the ban in Danish legislation. It was only when the European Commission approached the problem, according to the government, that it became aware of it. The proposal we are debating today prohibits the sale of snuff and thus helps to ensure consistency between the tobacco product law and the tobacco product directive. A similar bill was tabled in April 2013, when SF had the Ministry of Health post. At that time, we voted in favour because we felt that Denmark should honour its EU legal obligations and avoid losing a possible infringement of the Treaty before the European Court of Justice, but the proposal was not adopted when the opposition was opposed. The SF still supports the proposal to implement the snuff ban because we believe that Denmark should comply with the legislation we have been involved in adopting at EU level. However, we are pleased that the date of entry into force has been postponed, so that the negotiators are taken into account so that they do not suffer unnecessary losses.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203183221	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. The next is the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203183229	Thank you. Now the SF's rapporteur just said that this bill is not about banning loose snuff, but that is exactly what it is about. That is actually the purpose of the draft law. We do not agree on the part of the Enhedslisten that loose snuff should be banned, and that is why, of course, we are also voting against it. We would also like to see portion-packed snuff legalised in Denmark as well. That is absolutely correct, as several of the consultations also point out, that snuff is harmful to health. I don't think it's a surprise to anyone. It is cigarettes and pipe tobacco and cigars, but they are all legal today. Snuff has the advantage, it might be said, of smoking tobacco, that there is no passive smoking, and this also indicates that snuff is less harmful to health than smoking tobacco, with fewer cancers than we see in the past. In any case, there is no medical argument if you compare it with all kinds of other tobacco, so as to ban snuff separately. Then this case is for me to see more about Denmark's relationship with the EU, and I miss the fact that the government has dared to arm the EU much more on this issue. We have talked about the process of drafting the new tobacco product directive, but this also applies to the interpretation that Denmark has so far adopted of the traditional tobacco product directive. There has been a view here in the Danish Parliament that snuff should be legal. There has also been the view that snuff is Now we are where there is a possibility of a case before the European Court of Justice, and I think it should be used to raise this discussion. The government doesn't want that. There has so far been a majority in this Parliament in order to maintain that we should do so anyway, and I can only regret the fact that the Left is shaking its hand as we approach the goal. Nevertheless, we want to maintain that it is important that Denmark sometimes dares to challenge the EU both on those points where we do not think the EU regulates properly, but also in the discussion on how detailed the EU should regulate. We had a European Parliament elections last spring, where much of the debate was about the EU interfering in everything, too much and in everything, too much detail. I think this is a very good example of going too far on issues which could easily be decided at national level. I really think that the majority here in the Danish Parliament today overhears the public's signal to slow down EU regulation in a number of areas that are easy to regulate locally. But the bottom line is that we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203183556	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203183608	I think we should remember how this whole case began. It began, of course, with a Commissioner coming by and seeing that there was a Danish kiosk selling snuff, and then decided that this was something you would rather do something about. This illustrates very well how the European Union has unfortunately developed. It is something about some bureaucrats in Brussels who come by and tell elected assemblies how to set up legislation in each country. Then it happened that a majority in the Folketing said: we do not want to be part of it and we do not want to ban it, even if the government wants to. And then you got a situation with a health minister who totally ignored what the Folketing had decided. A new tobacco product directive has then been introduced, in which the article on tobacco consumed orally, as so eurocratically called, has certainly been moved from Article 8 to Article 17, since it has gone from Directive 200137 to Directive 201440, but the wording of the article is identical. What should be done in this case? The majority of the Danish Parliament should stand firm, that is to say, that we do not believe that the EU should decide and introduce this ban on snuff in Denmark; bet that Danish voters replace the current government during the year. However, there are some indications that this will happen, fortunately, and after the elections send a letter to the Commission in which the new government writes that they should disregard the previous government, which, moreover, was not at that time in accordance with a majority of the Danish Parliament. It is, in fact, scandalous behaviour that has taken place on the part of the current government. It can of course be said that the Minister is no longer a member of the government, but is nevertheless a member of a government party. This is a classic example of why the so-called EU-positive parties, which are not really EU-positive, but are just excited to take orders from Brussels, got a singing slap in virtually all countries in the European Parliament elections this summer. It's exactly because of the behavior we've seen in this case. It is precisely because of the servitude that is vis-à-vis Brussels. We should move in a different direction where countries have more influence and where the European Union is less involved. And if we are to move in that direction, I do not think we should wait for anything exciting to happen on the part of the European Union. I think we should make sure we do something ourselves. I believe that we and other countries must challenge the Commission somewhat more than we have done. One can imagine that the reason why we have lost the majority is because the Left is just as optimistic about the parliamentary elections as we are in the Liberal Alliance and therefore does not bother to have a defeat at the European Court of Justice when, hopefully, government has been taken over within a few months. I think it's a shame you haven't kept on. I think it is a pity that the Left has not kept up, and I think it is a pity that the government has not lived up to what a majority in the Folketing wanted. I think it is a pity that the Commission is just coming and giving orders instead of taking an interest in what is happening in individual countries. But now, this will bear on to the scepticism of the people. It will be a small stick to the fire that will probably be a no when we hold a referendum in 2016. We can at least welcome that from the Liberal Alliance and others, that is to say that we have received a little help from S, R and V in this matter. We'll take that with us. But I think it is a pity for the Danes, who suffer in their everyday lives and who are now unable to buy their products legally. When I put it that way, it is very conscious because they are going to buy the product anyway. We all know. It will be sold and will be completely as widespread as it has been up to now. For the snuff that is forbidden in portion bags, you can buy, I almost said any place. In fact, I don't think you can be in a place where people don't take out those round tubs and use that portion snuff, even though it's illegal to sell in Denmark. You can buy that anywhere in Copenhagen. You can do that in Aarhus. You can do that in the rest of the country. You'll be able to do that on the basis of this. So we are also criminalising ordinary people who will reasonably find solutions. That's what people do when we go crazy in here and make foolish decisions. Then sensible people find sensible solutions in the whole country. So the Danes will probably not change their behaviour, but then S, R and V have once again made a fool of the European Union, and that is fine with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203184130	Thank you to the rapporteur. Finally, it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203184148	As the Conservative People's Party's rapporteur on this matter, Mr. Daniel Rugholm, who cannot be present, I have promised to present the party's views on the matter instead. I'll do that. It's a really weird thing, because you'd think it was about snuff. So it does, because that is what we want to ban the sale of snuff at all in Denmark. You can have a lot of opinions about that. This is a little strange, because there are many unhealthy things that you can sell, including cigarettes, but something that is less unhealthy, namely snuff, you should not be allowed to sell. One might have an interesting health policy debate on this, but the debate we have here is just as much an EU political debate. It is a question of whether the EU should regulate whether it can sell such a product as snuff that takes up very, very little on the market. Can the EU and should it be able to prohibit anyone from selling it at retail level in Denmark? We in the Conservative People's Party believe that this should not be EU-regulated, already because of the principle of subsidiarity it should not be EU-regulated. However, if it were a fact that it is so, then we would have to bow to it, just as there may be other matters in which we must finally bow to the fact that something has been adopted in the European Union. We cannot agree with everything that is being adopted, but then we have to adjust to it. However, we have not been able to establish here whether this is now the law in force. In Denmark, we had a practice of selling snuff for 20 years without it being challenged by the European Union, even though there was a directive on the part of the European Union, a tobacco directive, but suddenly we find that we are acting in violation of EU law. That is what the Commission claims. We are then some who believe that there are good legal arguments to say that it is not contrary to EU law that we have the practice of selling snuff in Denmark that we have had so far. That is why we wanted this case to be tried by the European Court of Justice. It has to be said, then, that the government has not been very loyal to that decision, since the government has certainly entered into a trial, but has started to lie down flat and tell the European Commission that, in a way, the European Commission is right. That's a problem! Nevertheless, in the Conservative People's Party, we must take the consequence that our view is that this matter has not been tried legally, it should be tried by the European Court of Justice, and then we must see what the Court of Justice says, and then we must, of course, correct if a decision is against us. But on that basis, we cannot help to ensure that we now simply have to rectify without a trial and adopt it here. That is why the Conservative People's Party is opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203184501	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203184511	Thank you for your comments and for the debate today. The issue is that we in Denmark must live up to our EU legal obligations; that we must implement and have not properly implemented the tobacco product directive in Danish legislation because we allow the sale of loose snuff. We're gonna make that right now. It is in the interests of the small country to comply with the rules of the game, because that is the only way we can insist that the others who form part of the Community should, of course, also comply with the Community rules. I note that there is a majority in the Folketing consisting of the government and the SF and the Left for the legislative proposal that is now before us, which means that we will come in line with the EU regulation that is, and I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203184617	No one wanted to make brief comments. That was very short. Maybe somebody's ready to go home. We certainly have nothing left to negotiate now. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150203184649	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 4 February 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
