ParlaMint-DK_20150424100001	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing Behnke Behnke, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 27 April 2015 onwards he will be able to rejoin the Parliament. The Per of office of Mr Løkken as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. The Financial Committee has delivered: Report and recommendation on the report on the state accounts submitted by the State auditors for the financial year 2013. B 166). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk Today there are the following reviews: Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF): Bill no. L 191 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment of the age limit for jurors and judges)). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 167 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the increased protection of civil servants exercising their freedom of expression). Steen Gade (SF), Lars Christian Lilleholt (V), Jens Joel (S), Mikkel Dencker (DF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Per Clausen (EL), Villum Christensen (LA) and Mike Legarth (KF): Request no. F 39 (What can the Minister say about the Government's future energy policy initiatives in the light of the energy policy statement?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written regional and rural policy statement for 2015. R 16). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Wednesday 6 May 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424100157	The debate is open. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424100222	The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution to allow public authorities and companies to opt out of agreements with companies operating in tax havens. The government has a great deal of focus on the issue of tax havens, and I stress that we will resolve the issue of tax havens and supply. Therefore, procurement is one of the focus areas of the corporate tax haven package that the government entered into with all parties of the Folketing, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance in December 2014. In the area of supply, the agreement means that it must be possible to exclude companies that are in debt to the public because of tax fraud from participating in tenders; that the government will work in the EU to ensure that tax requirements can be included in tenders; and that the government will set in motion an analysis of the possibilities of imposing tax requirements on tenders below EU thresholds. This should be part of the guidance efforts in this area. The agreement also involves a number of initiatives at national and international level to stem tax evasion, money laundering and abuse of the Danish registration systems. The Enhedslisten proposes, firstly, that a statement be drawn up on the legal basis in the European Union which prevents tax havens from being excluded from procurement. Secondly, it is proposed that EU demands should be made to remove barriers to the exclusion of tax havens. Thirdly, Enhedslisten proposes that the government should work to ensure that public authorities are able to include tax matters in the procurement procedure where the task is assigned to the most economically advantageous tender. Fourthly, it is proposed that the Danish procurement rules under the EU directive's thresholds should be designed so that tax havens can be excluded. Finally, it is proposed to allow public authorities to require a public undertaking to explain its corporate structure. The government is well under way with the initiatives agreed in connection with the tax havens package. They also meet several of Enhedslisten's proposals. We have put forward a bill on a Danish procurement law, which means that companies that are indebted to the public, for example. because of tax evasion, can be excluded from participation in invitations to tender. And we have set in motion an analysis of the possibilities of imposing tax requirements on small purchases which are not covered by EU rules. The analysis must result in a guide which makes it clear to the public authorities when they can make use of tax requirements. We believe that it is more appropriate to provide guidance than to regulate, as the Enhedslisten proposes, when it comes to tenders that are not covered by the procurement rules. This is because it will always be a concrete assessment whether tax requirements can be made. In the case of companies that have made use of tax havens but do not have tax debts to the public sector, the scope for public action is currently limited by EU procurement rules. The rules mean that it is not possible to include tax matters when a task is to be assigned to an undertaking following an invitation to tender. This applies regardless of whether the task is assigned to the undertaking which has made the most economically advantageous offer. Therefore, within the framework of the European Union's procurement rules, we cannot comply with the proposal that tax arrangements should be able to be included when the task has been assigned to the most economically advantageous tender. The same EU rules mean that companies cannot be required to explain their company structure, as is also proposed in the motion for a resolution. It is because of these limitations that the government of the European Union will work to ensure that tax requirements can be included in tenders, as we have also agreed in relation to the tax havens package. Specifically, we will address the issue of tax havens and procurement in all relevant European fora, so that it is included in the current discussions on tax havens at European level too. The Government therefore considers that the tax havens package has initiated the initiatives which it is currently possible to initiate in order to resolve the problem of tax havens and supply. If we are to move forward with the initiatives contained in the tax havens package, it is necessary to change EU rules. I therefore propose that the motion for a resolution be rejected. However, as a follow-up to the proposal, I will ensure that a statement is made to Parliament on the legal basis in the European Union and the statement will be transmitted in the next session of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424100724	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424100728	Thank you for the relatively friendly reception of the motion for a resolution. I would like us to go a little deeper into why, according to the European Union, it is forbidden to introduce these rules. I mean, there are many things you can discuss. Is it within the rules or outside the rules? And then we have the European Court of Justice to take a position. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion that we should challenge the EU system and say that we do not want tax havens to win these tasks in Denmark. It is not tax havens that have to buy shares in DONG; it is not tax havens that have to win invitations to tender for operations in private hospitals in Denmark. So I would like to ask the Minister: can it be imagined that the European Union will take action against Denmark to force us to accept tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424100827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424100830	That will be the way I replied in my speech. We will make a statement to the Danish Parliament, which will also explain in legal terms what is the basis for why the government considers that at the moment we do not have the power to make these various demands. It is the case that, as a minister and as a government, I have chosen the following approach, which I think is wise: we are observing the law. If you want to change the law, including the agreements we have made internationally, then you have to do so. That, in fact, is what we have said in the agreement. It is not the case that I and the government have a hidden opportunity to do something here. That's not our assessment. I would like to make it very clear: to the extent that I could stretch the rules even further, I would like to do so. I have no problem with the fact that I think it is a really bad idea that all the companies, all the companies that pay a proper and fair tax, should be out-dated by some who do not do so and fail to pay a lot to the community. So far, however, we believe, and we will insist on this, that there is therefore no legal basis for proceeding with this, and the government is so arranged that we are complying with the legislation that is now in force in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424100947	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424100951	I am glad that, in this case, there is a relatively large convergence of views. I have understood the rules of the European Union in such a way that the issue is that all companies in the European Union are equal. That is why I cannot quite understand why we cannot make an equal opportunities rule which means that all companies will have to pay corporation tax in Denmark if they want to operate in Denmark. Well, I mean, it's really equality. Why should we depart from this because some people want to be in Luxembourg and avoid paying taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101030	There are certainly many good questions we can ask on the subject here, which I would very much like to help us get the drill out. I'm just leaning on the legal assessment I get on the table. It is that there is no room and scope for action beyond what is currently in place. That's what I'm referring to. Should it turn out that it is being opened up, that is fine, but I do not want to take part in the idea that we deliberately violate the rules and then challenge the European Union in relation to some matter or other. I think that's just exciting enough. I propose instead that we should go the direct way, and that is, of course, with other countries. I believe, in fact, that there is a great deal of sensitivity in the European Union at the moment, also in the light of the cases that have taken place, to say that this is an area that needs to be tightened up. I have noticed that large Danish companies and others are also quite committed to the fact that a fair and proper tax payment must actually be made, because they are also subject to unfair competition, to the extent that they are suddenly exposed to competition by companies that are in tax havens or in any other way are doing tax thinking. So I think that the time is ripe for rolling up the sleeves and pulling on the work clothes, including in the European Union. Then I believe something can happen here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101145	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101201	As the Minister also mentioned, the Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution that it should be possible for public authorities, i.e. municipalities, and companies, to exclude companies from the provision of public services if the companies concerned are based in tax havens or are otherwise trying to evade the general taxation of the company's profits. More specifically, Enhedslisten proposes, inter alia, that the government should give the Folketing a thorough account of the extent and on what legal basis the EU prevents public authorities from excluding tax havens from participating in public procurement, and that EU requirements should be made for the removal of any barriers to exclusion, and that Danish legislation should be designed so that it is within the applicable EU rules and, until these are amended, allows for the exclusion of tax havens, for example. where an invitation to tender is below the EU's limits as to when a task is to be put out to tender. It is not because the Left does not have sympathy for Enhedslisten's thoughts, but it is, as the Minister also mentioned, that an agreement was already concluded on 19 December 2014 between the Government and the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party on a strengthened effort to combat tax havens in the field of business, and in this agreement there is also a section focusing on offering. Among other things: it has been agreed that the EU government will work to ensure that tax requirements can be included in tenders and that the government will undertake an analysis of the possibilities of demanding fair tax practices in procurement below EU thresholds. It is a little difficult to see the need for Enhedslisten's proposal when it is that we are already in the process of working and are in the process of influencing and examining what opportunities there are to do some of what Enhedslisten is proposing. That is why the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101355	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101357	That's weird. We fully agree with the proposal and therefore we cannot support it. Well, I just don't understand that. We fully agree with the proposal and the intentions and what it says, and we are even doing some of these things, but we cannot support it. I think I'd like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101420	I don't think I said I was in complete agreement. I said I was sympathetic to the thoughts and much of what Enhedslisten has said. I think it is best that we refer to the agreement that has been reached with the government and that we then put pressure on that road around.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101436	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101439	I guess I didn't get much smarter from that; I don't think anyone else did either. If there is a proposal that is correct, I suppose we should vote in favour of it. If so, 84 per cent. According to a Gallup poll by the Left, is it not a good idea for the Left to support what we are proposing to go further than what is in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101507	Well, we support the possibilities of tax evasion and tax fraud, no doubt about it. But that is not the way to say that we can then support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution in detail. I mean, all honour and respect for the Enhedslisten and the many voluntary forces you have around, but it is probably better in the negotiations that are taking place in the government. And the Minister for Industry also promised a statement on the legal possibilities that exist. So that is why we cannot vote in favour of the Enhedslisten resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101544	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Thomas Jensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101553	Most citizens and companies pay the tax they have to pay, no more and no less, and it may be that there are some who think that they are paying a high tax here in Denmark, but most can see that they are getting something for the money. The tax dollars are used for the benefit of citizens and companies and societies as a whole, and when you pay the tax as you should, you do so in the expectation that the neighbour, the local company and companies operating in Denmark will also pay the tax they have to pay. Therefore, it is a healthy reaction that almost all Danes strongly distance themselves from citizens and companies who evade the treasury by placing their money in tax hiding. In recent years, unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of companies that cheat on taxes and thus do not contribute to the Danish welfare society, and as elected representatives we must ensure that everyone pays the tax they should pay according to the law. Therefore, it is also gratifying that all parties, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance, came together and secured broad support for a tax havens agreement concluded in December 2014. This shows that the fight against tax evasion is something that is mostly at the heart of the Danish Parliament. The Enhedslisten has then tabled this resolution, which contains several good ideas and tools that may be useful in the fight against tax havens. Parts of the proposal are already included in the tax havens agreement, or are close to or in continuation of the agreement. However, several of the proposed measures cannot be adopted immediately without going against EU regulation. Here in the Danish Parliament we are implementing the EU Procurement Directive, and this way around we are subject to rules or rules on how public procurement is to be conducted. This means that for the time being, there are barriers on the part of the European Union to how tax havens can be excluded from participating in public tendering rounds. In order to change this legislation here in the Folketing, we must first change the rules of the European Union. However, that part of the proposal has already been incorporated into the tax havens agreement, in which the government is required to work to ensure that the EU changes the rules on the inclusion of taxation in a procurement process. So here you can say that Enhedslisten kicks in an open door. The government is working in the relevant forums, so we can change the procurement rules to also be an instrument for combating tax havens, not only in Denmark, but throughout Europe. However, in order for us here in the Folketing to be able to decide as best we can where to focus our efforts, we need an overview, which is why I am pleased that in his speech the Minister for Business and Growth also said that he supports the part of Enhedslisten's proposal that the government should prepare a thorough report on EU rules and where they put barriers to the exclusion of tax havens in public procurement. Such a statement, I understand, will be transmitted in the next session. So to sum up: Social democracy cannot support the motion for a resolution, as it is estimated that all of the possible measures have been set in motion in the context of the tax havens agreement and for other parts it is not yet possible because of EU regulation. There, as agreed in the tax havens agreement, the government will work to amend EU rules so that we can subsequently adapt Danish legislation to this and ensure a joint European fight against companies using tax havens. As the Minister said in his speech, as I said, it will be transmitted here in the next session, and I look forward very much to the fact that, on the basis of the information provided, we can go further in the work of ensuring that companies also have to pay the tax they are going to pay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101937	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424101940	Thank you again for the positive statement, but I do not think I got what it was in the proposal against which the Social Democratic Party was opposed. I can, of course, guess a little bit that when there is a proposal from another party, you are in a way opposed, regardless of the content, and that is okay. But here, according to Gallup, 94%. Social Democrats support what Enhedslisten is working for. Wasn't that a good reason to say that we're gonna take this, and we're gonna go along with that instead of finding some kind of artificial explanation why you're not in it? If perhaps I was not paying attention for a short second then I don't think I was going to ask: what is it in the proposal that you cannot support?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102041	The Socialists are fighting hard against companies that place their funds in tax havens. Social democracy is also in favour of those companies having to comply with the law in Denmark, and at the same time the Social Democrats are also interested in the government's compliance with the EU law that is in force. I think that Mr. Frank Aaen must try to take a positive view of the speech I have made, in which I strongly support the fight against tax havens, and also that we now have a statement from the Minister for Business and Growth that can put our finger directly on where the problems lie, while the Minister for Business and Growth and the Government are actively working in the European Union to ensure that there is a pan-European regulation in the fight against tax havens, and that this is something that can be included as a point when companies are to be involved in public tendering rounds. So we are very positive, but EU regulation must also be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102144	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102146	Well, there is nothing in the proposal that we have put forward that is against EU rules. We have asked for them to be examined in greater detail, but it is not against the EU's rules to investigate matters further. It is true that if we adopt something here in the Folketing, it has a certain binding effect, both for the current government and also for the next government, and that is why I simply do not understand a piece of it, so that the Social Democrats do not just say that this is what we are adopting here. Because I still have not heard a single argument against the resolution we have tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102224	We have a broad agreement that we need to examine it further, and on the basis that we have been informed, we need to work for the things that are possible for us to implement, so that we can oppose companies placing their money in tax havens while taking part in public tendering rounds in Denmark. So I think that Mr. Frank Aaen needs to take a positive view. There is this broad majority that is in good agreement with the people's atmosphere that tax havens are not something we accept here in Denmark, nor are companies that place their funds in tax havens participating in public tendering rounds. So I think, sir. Frank Aaen is going to go on weekends with a happy feeling in his body that there's a Parliament that's very much united about this effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102307	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102316	The Danish People's Party is also grateful to us for once again having the opportunity here in the Danish Parliament to debate such an important issue as how best to combat tax havens. It is true, as other rapporteurs have said, that in December 2014 we have actually succeeded in achieving a common agreement where, as it were, the whole of the Danish Parliament agreed on two different legislative initiatives, one on the tax minister's area of responsibility and one on the trade minister's area of responsibility. That is why, of course, it is also an area which already has the attention of politicians and, of course, it must have it. We also believe in the Danish People's Party that it is important that companies and citizens pay the tax that they are required to pay according to the law, no more or less. Of course, we also have to do what we can to minimise the number of tax changes that make people move taxation from one country to another. Many of the elements contained in this motion for a resolution are also quite reasonable. As has already been said, it makes sense, for example, to look again at the challenges posed by the EU Procurement Act, the Procurement Directive, which of course also has an impact on how Danish companies and Danish authorities carry out the various procurements they are undertaking. However, there are some places where we in the Danish People's Party find it difficult. One of the things Enhedslisten says is that state and municipalities must be able to reject suppliers related to tax havens. No one may object to that in principle, but it's just the question of being connected with it. What is involved in a concept, a language phrase that is related to it? Is it in connection with some conjecture, some conjecture? Is it in connection with some audit reports? Is it in connection with some judicial judgments, some decisions that have been made? Or what really lies in a concept such as being connected with? There, of course, we think that it should be much more concrete, at least more precise, so you have an idea of what it really is that Enhedslisten means by it. There is then in the Danish People's Party the view that this is a very complex area. It is also an area in which there are many multinational companies which have a wide-ranging network and company formations throughout the world. And there are many good reasons for this. After all, there is nothing forbidden in companies choosing to have companies in different countries and in different regions of the world. But if there are some places where we can improve transparency, transparency, then this is something that the Danish People's Party will of course welcome. We really think that we have many of these elements in the two agreements that we are part of, which I mentioned from the beginning, namely the two tax havens agreements concluded in December 2014 in the area of the tax minister and the Minister of Business respectively. We cannot support the motion for a resolution in its entirety, and there are, of course, several reasons for this. But we want to be a part of and welcome the fact that, for example, we have a report in the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, in which we have some of these things fleshed out, including the points raised by the Minister. Of course, it makes no sense if the Minister has already started an investigation into EU law, but yet we would certainly like to be involved in the dialogue that there must be. We also think that we have to say fairly that the Enhedslisten had the chance to get many of these things further on the political agenda in the course of the negotiations that we had in November and December last year prior to the two tax havens concluded. But it is not something that the Danish People's Party will argue about. This is something that we will be discussing, and we are, in fact, in agreement with part of the basic preface, namely that we must, of course, do everything we can to combat tax havens and tax evasion, both in Denmark and internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102726	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102728	Just to the end, I would like to say that there was no debate, either on the part of the tax minister or on the part of the Minister for Business and Growth, where we did not mention this problem. I think I can say, without just looking at my notes, that the only party that really supported it was the SF, otherwise no other party supported that one should go harder on it. And that is also the reason why we have tabled the resolution. After all, there is no need to make motions for resolutions if you think you have come through with your things. It is only when you have not come through with all the things you want. This is really weird. The parties think it is a good proposal and then they vote against it. So, what exactly is the Danish People's Party opposed to this proposal? I understood that it was something that wasn't accurate enough. What do connections to tax havens mean? Well, okay, we'll take care of that. That's not a problem. Make an amendment, and then we take it into account no problems. Then the Danish People's Party should not, like 93 per cent. by the voters of the Danish People's Party, according to Gallup, go in and support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424102841	Well, sir. Frank Aaen apparently believes that the Danish People's Party should table an amendment to a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten. This is not something that we have the very great practice of implementing, I am happy to admit. But I would like to say that what Mr. Frank Aaen makes it quite clear, and that is that one of the things that we have at least taken note of is difficult, in relation to the overall context, is that when it comes to supporting a motion for a resolution it must also do so, because you agree with everything that is the basic premise of the resolution. And I think it is very vague when it says, for example, that companies should be rejected if some kind of connection can be found with the company in tax havens cases. Because what's a connection? I think that is rather imprecisely worded. Then, of course, it is also one of the four points included in the motion for a resolution by Enhedslisten, and it is with the ultimate owners, in other words, that it must be stated in all future invitations to tender. I believe that in some places this is very difficult to get into, because as far as the ultimate owner of certain companies is concerned, it is the case that in a wide range of ownership there may be up to several different multinational capital funds which are co-owners of a company that is part of an EU offering, and there may also be large multinational family-owned companies that are also part of the ownership of a company that participates in a tender. That is why everything else will be very, very difficult to put into practice. And I also believe that Enhedslisten is aware that there will be some major challenges in terms of documentation requirements and the way it should be described. But I will not trouble it any more than is necessary. I'm just saying that we're actually going into this with regard to finding some of the places where it can be even better than in the two tax havens that we're part of. And I don't remember what Mr. Frank Aaen has written in his notes. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103044	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103045	But it may be that the negotiators of the Danish People's Party have written it in their notes I cannot rule that out, but it is not safe because we have actually raised these problems every time, and that is because it is so important. The government is so big a buyer that if the government says that companies operating from tax havens are not accepted, it has a significance, because then there are companies that have to disclaim the possibility of very large orders. And if there's something the companies have some respect for, it's if they can't get some orders and make some money. And that's why it's so important. I just think that the Danish People's Party should come up with a small amendment which just clarifies the point I mentioned earlier and then vote in favour of this, so that we can press the government and the following government on the one that might come and which the Danish People's Party might support to do something in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103141	Well, I'd like to sign for the kind thoughts of sir. Frank Aaen to be a spin doctor for the Danish People's Party, in relation to what we are going to do about amendments to a resolution tabled by the extreme left. I think I'm gonna have to disappoint sir. Frank Aaen. There will be no amendments from the Danish People's Party to a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, so there will be no amendments from the Danish People's Party. I have mentioned that we would like to join in writing a joint report. That is the way it is going and, with all due respect, I think that Mr. Frank Aaen knows he has longer seniority in the Folketing than I do that is the way you typically do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103216	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103226	Thank you, President. As the Minister rightly said, most companies are themselves interested in their tax payments being orderly and in companies operating under fair conditions of competition. But that does not change the fact that there are companies that do not play according to the common rules of the game. That is why it is important to prioritise the fight against tax havens. We must do this at national, European and best of all at global level. Here I can say that the government is already well underway with initiatives that were agreed on in connection with the tax haven agreement back at the end of 2014. Many of the proposals and initiatives contained in the tax havens agreement also match several of the Enhedslisten's proposals. The Government has put forward proposals for a Danish procurement law which means that companies that are indebted to the government, for example. because of tax evasion, can be excluded from participation in invitations to tender. The Government has also launched an analysis of the possibility of imposing tax requirements on purchases not covered by EU rules. In this way, I can say that the government is also working in the European Union to see if we can make progress along this path by making tenders part of the fight against tax havens. As the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen, said, I think that the Enhedslisten's proposal here is a little like kicking in an open door, especially bearing in mind the proposals and initiatives that the government has already carried out and taken in connection with the tax havens agreement and beyond. Then there is one thing to which I would also like to make a comment, and that is that we must stand firm in the fight against tax havens. This is incredibly important, both for the sake of that money coming to taxation and being translated into welfare and the other priorities of the various governments and because it is about fairness. Well, it's about legal certainty for all those who pay taxes. But what we also need to think about is the legal position of companies. It is very important that we examine these things properly and that we do not bring forward anything that allows companies to get into the gap. I'm not saying that's what Enhedslisten wants, not at all; I'm just saying that you can unwittingly do that. We also remember the case of the company 3. That is why it is important to get companies' legal position into this. On the radical side, we sincerely acknowledge the intentions of the Enhedslisten behind this proposal, but according to the comments I have already made, on the basis that we have before us, I shall suspend the proposal for rejection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103525	Sir. Frank Aaen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103529	Again, I have the strange experience of saying that you agree with what the proposal says, but you end up saying that you do not support it. I would understand if the Radical Left supported the proposal, because it does 97%. of your voters according to Gallup, so it was probably a wise decision to support it. But what is it that is opposed to the proposal? I don't understand. There is not a single sentence in our proposal that I have heard radicals somehow think is wrong. So why don't you just tell me one more time why you end up not supporting this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103619	Firstly, when I look at the Enhedslisten's proposals and look at the rules that are at EU level, I am not sure that there is complete coincidence. That is to say, if you take the Enhedslisten's proposal and implement it, there is a risk that you will get into carambola with EU rules. I am not saying that this is the case, but that is my view. The second is that I believe that we are already going the way that Enhedslisten actually wants. And that is what we want, not only because the Enhedslisten wants it, but because we think that is the right way to go, that is, towards tax havens. As I also said, it is always about taking a series of initiatives in the fight against tax havens on an enlightened and analytical basis, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103713	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103715	I do not think I heard what it was that was the reason for not voting for this; I do not think I heard it. What we are proposing is, after all, an examination of what EU rules are. We want to change the EU rules, but we cannot be quite sure that we will succeed in this way in the first place; it can be extremely difficult. Nor should we be allowed to ban phthalates, endocrine disruptors and other problems in the European Union. In this way, we have proposed that we should remain within the rules of the European Union, investigate them: where is the edge? What can be done within the EU rules? That is why I still do not understand why the Radicals are not just voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103802-2	It is no surprise to the rapporteur that Radicals are not just voting for what comes from the Enhedslisten said with a glimpse in their eyes. In addition to the proposals to be examined that Enhedslisten wants to examine, there are also some things that Enhedslisten wants implemented, and I am not sure that it is actually congruent with EU rules • I am not sure that is so. Secondly, I also stressed the importance of the company's legal position, not only in terms of having fair competition, but also in terms of our having our affairs in order, if that is what we are doing with sanctions or the like. And so we would like to examine this a little more zealously than Enhedslisten suggests.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103848	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424103906	There's 130 billion. kr. in tax havens, and these are not SF's figures, these are the National Bank's figures. Year by year, that amount increases. It only goes one way, that's up. Despite the fact that there may rarely have been so much focus on tax havens in Denmark and so many initiatives have been taken, it only goes one way, namely up. Since the crisis exploded, there has, of course, been a great deal of focus on the fact that ordinary citizens, taxpayers, have paid for the crisis and that more and more billions are flowing in tax havens. On paper I thought that we made a very good tax havens agreement in December with the Minister for Business and Growth and also with the Minister for Taxation, and I also thought that the spirit of that paper was good, at least from the point of view of the SF, but the problem is that some things are missing. I have asked questions to the Minister for Business and Growth, Article 20, where he has insured and I believe that he is very concerned about this subject and, like the government, will work for the EU to change the Procurement Directive. Of course, Denmark cannot do this alone, but the Danish Government will make a special effort to change it, because it is, of course, there, the big fight stands. However, another feature of our tax havens agreement of December was that the government will initiate analysis work on the possibility of demanding fair tax practices in procurement below EU thresholds. Now there is a procurement law in consultation where I do not think it is being reflected on. What we on the part of the SF and also the Enhedslisten wanted was that the legislation that we are at least responsible for at home in the Folketing, which is, after all, below the EU's thresholds, means that those people in regions and municipalities and elsewhere who want to be able to say no to a company that they know operates from a tax haven say: no tax dollars for this company; we do not want to spend the citizens' money on, for example. to outsource welfare tasks, so that it should go to a company that does not pay tax in Denmark. This must be allowed when the Danish procurement law is in force. Against this background, I would say that if the spirit of the tax haven agreement we made had been fulfilled, I would have said to Mr. Frank Aaen, like many others have done today, that he and Enhedslisten kick in an open door. But I really do not think that Enhedslisten does, because I am concerned that all the fine toasts and all the fine words about the two tax havens run into the sand. So from the SF's point of view, we'd like to support this. We believe that it reflects the spirit of what we would like to see implemented in the tax havens agreement, which we are concerned about not being implemented now, and therefore supports the SF Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104240	Sir. Thomas Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104242	I just have a specific question for Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. From the rapporteur's speech, it emerged, as I heard, that the government is not complying with the tax havens agreement concluded in December, so I would like to hear whether the rapporteur can clarify that. Because, as we heard the Minister say in his speech, the Minister fully follows what was agreed in December and is working on the work that has been agreed. But I would just like to clarify what the SF thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104311	I do not think I used the words not to comply, but I said that what we in the SF think was the spirit of the text of the agreement, what we had hoped for, was a Danish procurement law, where it is not EU directives, but the Danish procurement law, which falls under the thresholds, that is, where we can say that we want guidelines in there, so that we, for example. The municipality can simply say no. I'm a little confused by the fact that there's a communication going on between... Well! I am addressing the rapporteur on the basis of tax practices. As far as I am aware, it is not part of the revised procurement law that it is clear that we can say no to it. But if I am misinformed, the rapporteur must finally correct me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104405	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104408	Thank you. In any case, I can confirm that the Minister is working closely according to the agreement reached and the things outside are being examined. We will have a statement to the Folketing so that, on an enlightened basis, together we, the broad majority here in the Folketing, who are working to combat tax havens, ensure that they pay the tax they are going to pay in Denmark. So we get an enlightened basis so that we can look at how we can move forward together, and I hope the government has SF's support for that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104440	I have no doubt that the rapporteur takes this issue very seriously. I have no doubt that the Minister takes this very seriously. I am just worried that what you come up with when you make an agreement text that says that you want to set in motion an analysis work to look at how a Danish procurement law can be revised etc. is that the analysis work shows that you cannot. I would just like to be corrected if I have misunderstood, namely that what is being sent out to stakeholders does not contain the fact that, as a municipality or region, one can clearly say no to companies that are proven to have tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104529	Sir. Nadeem Farooq for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104532	It is not because I want to thrive on this, but I have to say that I also stumbled over the remark made by the SF rapporteur and also the comment made in the second round that the government may not be working according to the spirit of the tax havens agreement. I would just like to make it clear that we are very concerned that when it comes to tax havens and the supply is drawn into it, we are working very hard on it in the European Union. I just think that is important to clarify this by the government. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104607	Nor do I believe that it was the work of the European Union to try to convince the European colleagues who were the problem. I'm just worried about the revised Danish procurement law we get. After what I have been informed of and therefore I keep asking you to correct me if I have misunderstood it does not imply a clear mandate to say no to companies operating from tax havens. That's what I'm worried about. I have no doubt that the Minister says to his colleagues in the European government that we want the Procurement Directive changed. But you can also interpret that as the radical rapporteur also said up here from the platform, and it is a bit a grey area sometimes in relation to EU legislation and the directive, as to how far you can go nationally. We want to go as far as possible there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104659	Sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104701	Well, there's one thing that's about these grey areas, but in the fight to translate our analysis into real implementation, we're working very hard. And we have set in motion an analysis of the possibilities of imposing tax requirements on small purchases which are not covered by EU rules. The analysis must result in a guide which makes it clear to the public authorities when they can make use of tax requirements. It is just to make it clear that it is also a task that is very close to our hearts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104733	I thank you for that. I just hope that the analysis work which leads to a guide to the municipalities and regions that have called for some scope for action in order to be able to legally say no to companies, will also become waterproof. That is what I have heard from the Minister over and over again, and I am sure that the will is also there: you simply want to avoid cooperation with companies that are proving to be tax evasion or operating from tax havens. So I hope that the analysis which leads to a guide on how to use tax practices as a way of saying 'yes' or 'no' to a company will also be robust enough for the municipalities to be able to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104820	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104823	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says there are 130 billion. kr. in tax havens Can Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen say anything about how many of the 130 million illegally located outside the country? Because you could get the impression that these were illegal acts here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424104844	It's not millions, it's billions. 130 billion is the amount placed in these tax havens according to the latest official inventory by the National Bank. What we are discussing over and over again in this Chamber is the grey area between what is clearly illegal and what is clearly legal; that is what we are challenged by. I don't think that Joachim B. Olsen is challenged by it or • what should you say • lies awake at night, but we are some who are challenged by it, because we think that if you have activities in Denmark, you should pay taxes in Denmark. If you are a company that does a job for a municipality you earn some money then tax will have to be paid in Denmark. Many of these transactions we've started looking at, among other things. I think it is very good that the Minister also works for what is called country-by-country reporting so that these transactions can be monitored. And there we are constantly trying to see whether we cannot make it even clearer what the rules are, for example. on transfer pricing. The rapporteur is well aware of this concept. When transferring, you can use trade between subsidiaries, for example. to channel capital out of the country. You can make artificial deficits, so even if you are a large multinational company in Denmark you have made a lot of money for decades funny enough never had any profit to pay taxes on. So in short, some of this is clearly illegal, and when it comes to the table, it is also looked at, but a lot of it is fancy that is hard to prove. SKAT is running a lot of legal proceedings against companies, but the problem is just this grey area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105035	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105037	When you listen to the rapporteur, and the rapporteur says that there are 130 billion people in tax havens, I think that many people who are not in this complicated legislation get the impression that it is 130 billion who are illegally located then I would just like to ask the rapporteur how much of this 130 billion is illegally located outside Denmark. Because we are very concerned that we have a rule of law, and that is why we do not like the indication that companies are committing something illegal if they do not. And I believe that many listeners who listen to the rapporteur get the impression that these 130 billion people are illegally located outside the country. So I would just ask the rapporteur to explain how much of this 130 billion is illegally located outside Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105142	Where it is proved that something clearly illegal has been done, the SKAT will at least in most cases make sure that some sort of case gets under way. However, what I have said from up here today, and as I have said so many times, is that many parties, with the exception of at least the Liberal Alliance, think that it is a problem that we are challenged by the fact that large multinational companies can channel their profits out of Denmark via another country to let it end in a tax havens or use transfer pricing, using artificial transactions for, vupti, no longer having a profit that can be taxed in Denmark. That's what we're challenged by. I know Joachim B. Olsen doesn't care, but the problem is this grey area. That is why steps are constantly being taken, good steps are being taken, I think, by this government too. Now it should not be misunderstood when it comes to looking at transfer pricing, when it comes to looking at the money laundering directive, so that we are constantly fighting for the legal tools in the European Union to combat this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105249	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105313	I shall be very brief. We cannot support this proposal. We cannot do this because it is an expression of the fact that we are going alone in an area in which we should not go alone. We should not have special rules in Denmark which make it difficult for companies to operate in Denmark and which can result in us missing out on investment. Sometimes it sounds as if you can just tighten the screw legislatively, introduce complicated rules without having any impact on society as a whole. When legislation is introduced, the advantages must be weighed against the disadvantages. We should not make it complicated to operate in Denmark, even for companies that comply with the law, and companies must do so. They must pay the tax to which they are obliged by law, just as taxpayers must. But if you make the tax rules complicated, we risk missing out on investment in our country, then we will miss out on wealth, and we do not believe that this proposal is balanced. We believe that the desire to go alone in this area will mean that costs will be higher than any gains by introducing this legislation. Effective action against companies that deliberately cheat must be coordinated internationally in the European Union. The best way for companies to make profits in other countries is to have a competitive tax system that makes it attractive for companies to be in Denmark. It is too small today. This is what should be in focus in the Danish Parliament. We must ensure that we have competitive tax legislation and transparent tax legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105512	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105516	We need a competitive tax practice, but then I'd like to know how far the tax goes. One part of this Luxembourg Fint was that you came down to pay less than 1%. Baby. Is that what is competitive to prevent companies from hiding money in tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105543	When it comes to corporation tax, we have proposed that it should be reduced to 12.5%, and that is because we do not think it is, moreover, particularly sensible, like the Government's Productivity Commission, to have a high corporation tax, because it is paid indirectly by employees, because a high corporation tax means fewer investments in companies, fewer investments in new machinery and new technology that improve employees' real wages. It is employees who pay many of the capital taxes that we have today, and capital taxation in Denmark is the highest throughout the European Union, and that means, as I said, less investment and therefore ultimately lower real wages for employees. So while talking about corporation tax and capital tax and just being able to turn it up, it may seem enticing and nice for the left to say that it is the employees who ultimately pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105644	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105647	But what the rapporteur says is almost communist. It would then be a far too high tax rate if it were over 12%. It's not competitive. How can a corporation tax of 12% be applied? could compete with the overseas tax havens, which have these centres where they are down to less than 1%. In fact, at tax level? It is by no means competitive. Surely you can do better if you really think we should be able to compete on the tax. I'm disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105727	Well, if the SF is willing to enter into negotiations with the Liberal Alliance to bring corporate tax down to zero percent, we will go very constructively to those negotiations. It's a promise from the Liberal Alliance to the SF here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105742	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105752	Companies must, of course, pay the tax that has been agreed in the countries in which they work and comply with the international agreements that have been concluded. Society and, in particular, the European Union also have a responsibility to ensure that we come after companies that deliberately create tax havens that deliberately create tax structures that aim to avoid tax payments where tax is now due. There are various initiatives in the European Union right now to ensure that they do not look, among other things. on the Luxembourg fin. The Conservative People's Party has reached an agreement with the government, where there are various initiatives in the field of tax havens, in the field of business, which we stand by. That is enough for us and we cannot therefore vote in favour of the Enhedslisten proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105846	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424105858	With a few exceptions, all parties have probably supported the proposal. Then all they have said is that we cannot vote in favour of it. In fact, I have not heard any arguments from those who supported the proposal that they cannot then vote in favour of it. I should like to be rebuked here in the brief remarks, if there is anything I have overlooked. But I do not think there has been a single argument to say: that is why we do not support the proposal. Perhaps I should tell you what the proposal is about. Because that is not what we would like, namely to be able to ban companies in tax havens from winning public tasks, from welfare or building tasks, etc. It is, in fact, a very mild one for Enhedslisten, perhaps an extremely mild version of our policy, namely to look at whether it is now forbidden in the EU system to introduce stricter rules against tax havens and whether tax arrangements can be required to be included when a municipality, region or state has to assess an offer. Let's just take the very last example we've had with DONG. With DONG, there was at least the possibility that some pension funds could offer the shares that the state wanted to sell. The pension funds would then have been given the order, they would probably have made some money, and they would have had to pay taxes on them, pension income tax, whereas Goldman Sachs now has a large share of the shares, and they can avoid paying taxes. Is this to be included in the assessment of different offers? I think it should be the case that if anyone is wondering that they can avoid paying taxes, they can be deselected, and then, if you want, you can take those who want to pay. That's more than 20% anyway. of the surplus, this is about. So there is economy in that, and there is justice in that too. Then we have proposed that we should have stricter rules to ensure that we can at least say that when these are things that are not covered by EU procurement rules, tax havens can be excluded, and finally just to be sure how things are related; I also think the Minister of Finance will be glad that we are told that if Goldman Sachs wants to buy shares in DONG, it means that ownership is in tax havens. This should also be known before deciding which company should have a given order. What we have proposed here is, in my view, entirely within the European Union's remit, and it should also be within the political view of virtually all parties. That is why, of course, we should be able to adopt it. That's what you should do if you look at it. I've noticed that sometimes parties do what your constituents think. I do not think we should always run by what the voters think, but reach 90 per cent. of all Danes say that they want to be able to opt out of tax havens from participating in public procurement, so 90 per cent. Maybe a lot anyway. So, at SF it is 97%, at Enhedslisten it is 97%, and even at Liberal Alliance it is 68 per cent who believes that companies operating from tax havens should be excluded. It is quite massive, so all the parties who think about the forthcoming elections might perhaps think about whether it should be part of the deliberations we have about whether we should vote for it here or not. Then there are some who say that we must have equality. It is an EU rule, and I fully agree with that. That is the European Union's system: you have to have equality between companies from different countries. But I cannot understand why it cannot be said that fiscal equality must also be achieved, so it is said that all companies that want a job in Denmark must also pay taxes in Denmark. Well, that's equality. Otherwise, we have the situation we unfortunately have today, that some companies that are Danish-based and pay taxes in Denmark will have to include a higher revenue in their bid than the companies that place themselves in tax havens, because they do not have to think about having to pay taxes in Denmark. So what we have today is not really equality. That's odd. Those who pay taxes are worse off than those who do not pay taxes, those who are in tax havens. That is why I think that it is entirely in line with the whole thinking of the European Union that we can of course exclude those who wish to evade tax payments. I would just like to say in conclusion that this proposal will, of course, be put to the vote. The parties can then decide whether they have anything to justify not voting in favour. I have also just asked it as a question in the Committee on Taxation. The Minister, I think, should have the opportunity in writing to explain point by point why it is opposed. I have heard that some of the arguments should be that we are in the process of doing so. Fine, then you can just say it. But in reality it would only result in one having to vote in favour of the proposal if one thinks it is right and that is the way we should go. And if you do not think so, I just think you should say quite openly in a debate and in writing that you are against the proposal for it and that reason. It could be very interesting to have it exposed. I would say that I have not heard a single argument in this debate in order to vote against the proposal, which, moreover, was said to be in favour as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424110532	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If no objection is expressed, this has been adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424110550	The debate is open. Mrs Tina Nedergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424110619	Thank you very much. The legislative proposal that we are now considering must be seen in relation to the next item on the agenda, namely Bill L 187 on the amendment of the adoption law. L 187 introduces a new, modernised adoption system which brings together the supervision of adoption communication at the Ankestyrelsen. Since L 187, to which we shall return at a later date, presupposes that the department of the family in the departmental status of the Ankestyrelsen is abolished, draft law L 186 proposes this. The Left's overall position and comments on the modernised adoption system itself will be explained during the examination of Bill L 187. We note with satisfaction that Bill L 186 strengthens the legal position of citizens in relation to the possibility of bringing family law proceedings before the Ankestyrelsen. The Left therefore supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424110709	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424110720	Thank you. Since our social rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, cannot be here today, I have promised to read out the following: with this bill we fully integrate the family law area into the Ankestyrelsen. This means that we will abolish the departmental status that the board has had in this area, so that the Ankestyrelsen also in the field of family law becomes a general board of directors. For historical reasons it is the case that the family unit of the Ankestyrelsen has had departmental status, but it is neither appropriate nor necessary to continue in this way. With the bill we change the right of appeal in the family law cases, so that where it is today the Minister who deals with complaints it is hardly the Minister personally, I believe that in future it will appear directly from the law that it is the Ankestyrelsen, who is the Board of Appeal as a general board of the Ministry. When I say that it will appear directly from the law, it is due to the fact that this is already happening today. In fact, it is already de facto that the family court department of the Ankestyrelsen deals with the family-law complaints on behalf of the Minister, and this change will not mean a change in the tasks to be carried out in the future by the Ankestyrelsen in the field of family law, and the Department of Social Affairs will continue to have an office for family law, which is responsible for ministerial service and policy development, and which has the overall focus on legislation and its administration. The draft law will in future make it possible to deal with matters of principle and general family law with the participation of appointed members, i.e. laymen, as is the case today, in the social field. We in the Socialists think the bill is sensible and we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424110906	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424110915	Thank you. As has already been said, the overall purpose of the bill is to abolish the departmental status of the family unit, so that the family unit is given the same organisational status as the rest of the Ankestyrelsen, and to allow the Ankestyrelsen to decide to deal with matters of principle or general family law at a meeting with an extended vote involving appointed members, including laymen. It is the family department of the Ankestyrelsen which, on behalf of the Minister, deals with these cases. Several of the consultation responses support the bill, and the Ankestyrelsen also supports the purpose of the bill and agrees that the proposals will clarify the legal position of citizens in relation to the possibility of appealing against family law cases to the Ankestyrelsen. In the Danish People's Party we are interested in strengthening the legal position of citizens, and if this bill can contribute to this, it is positive. But I would like to ask the Minister whether this proposal will in any way affect the processing times of the Ankestyrelsen, so that they will be even longer. We have previously discussed the long processing times of the Ankestyrelsen and that will of course not be satisfactory. In addition, the Data Protection Agency has also written in their consultation answer, and I quote: However, it is noted for the sake of good order that it follows from section 57 of the Personal Data Act that when drafting notices, circulars or similar general regulations which have an impact on the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data, an opinion from the Data Protection Agency is to be obtained. The Data Protection Agency shall require the supervision to be consulted on the notices to be issued under the law, to the extent that they have an impact on the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data. Quote out. Then I just need the Minister to confirm that, of course, an opinion is being obtained from the Data Protection Agency in relation to the processing of personal data. We in the Danish People's Party are in favour of the bill and look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111128	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think the rapporteur of the Radical Left is not here. Is there a brief comment? Yeah. It just hasn't been pushed in. Mrs. Karen J. Klint, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111140	In fact, I promised the Radicals that if their rapporteur did not arrive, I would have to say that they are also behind the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111156	Well, that's it. I don't know if the same applies to the SF? There is also no one present in the Assembly Hall from the SF. We move on to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111201	I will be brief and say that the Enhedslisten supports the bill, which is, in fact, a little technical change without the crazy amount of substantive changes, but would point out, however, that it is possible to vote with laymen in matters of fundamental family law that we believe and hope will also provide a better basis for the individual case of principle, but also, in general, for the case of procedure, so as to have a broader perspective on the slightly more fundamental issues that may affect other matters in the future. So Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111249	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Thyra Frank, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111256	As stated in the submission speech, the overall purpose of the bill is that the family affairs department will be given the same status as the rest of the Ankestyrelsen and that the Ankestyrelsen can deal with family law cases at meetings where laymen participate. It strengthens citizens' ability to complain to the Ankestyrelsen, and the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111326	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111328	Thank you. As the Conservative rapporteur in this area unfortunately cannot be here, I have promised to say that we will also support this amended right of appeal and that, by reading through the hearings, we will also be able to see that those who have dealt with the substance of the proposal consider it to be positive and that it will strengthen the right of appeal. We share that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111353	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111403	Thank you, President. I would like to thank you for the very rapid discussion that has taken place on this technical proposal. I am, of course, pleased that with the bill we can fully integrate the Ankestyrelsen's assignment in the area of family law into the Ankestyrelsen. In this way, we will also be able to put an end to a historically conditional arrangement which is not factually necessary, and we will achieve that the Ankestyrelsen will be fully a general administration under the Ministry, including in the field of family law. Of course, I appreciate the support that has been provided. I can say to Mrs Karina Adsbøl that it will not go beyond the processing times that we are all really concerned with. The last question was rather technical, so I would like to reply in writing to that if that is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111454	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111508	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Tina Nedergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111526	Thank you. In the Left, we very much welcome the legislative proposal that we are now considering. Above all, we do so because the new adoption system must ensure that adoptions can take place in a way that is for the good of children in the future, because that is basically what we believe is that adoption is about the child seeking parents. In the first place, that is the order in which we must keep in mind, because we are doing it for the sake of the children. The wishes and needs of the adoptive parents must be secondary. Children who come to Denmark through the adoption system come from a life in orphanages or with their biological families • families who for one reason or another have felt obliged to give away their children. It's a tough start for a child, it's tough conditions to start life on. This is precisely why we believe that we must keep the child in focus all the time and ensure that the whole adoption process can be carried out in the way that is best for the children, in a way that guarantees the child's care, and in a way that also gives the adoptive family the best conditions for receiving a child, also with the special needs that each child now has when it comes to this. I am absolutely convinced that the other Members present today will agree with me that adoption raises a number of problems. There are many opposing interests at stake and, unfortunately, also to some extent financial interests. This, by its very nature, makes the process very difficult, and therefore, unfortunately, it can lead to quite unhappy processes in which both children, biological parents and adoptive parents are at risk of getting into a mess. We are therefore happy to admit in the Left that it is difficult, but all the more so we are obliged to do something and to ensure that in future we avoid unhappiness and unhappiness. That is why we in the Left welcome the fact that this government bill has just tried to address these issues and respond to them with the proposed amendments to the adoption law. The proposed changes will increase the safety of adoptions, partly because the requirements of the adoption-formulating organisations are being tightened up and partly because more supervision by the authorities will be exercised. In this context, we would like to highlight the merger of DanAdopt and AC Child Welfare, which, as we know, has become DIA, Danish International Adoption. The effective and successful merger will provide a secure framework for international adoption in the future. In addition, I welcome the fact that in future the Agency will have to approve matching proposals and that the adoptive parents will be given the necessary support both before and after the removal of a child. These changes to the adoption law will help to ensure children the best possible adoption courses and that children end up with the right adoptive parents. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that we in the Left are very pleased with the new legal complex and that we are pleased that the agreement we have reached has, in the best of our knowledge, succeeded in securing the future adoption process, most of all for the sake of children. I would add that I did not take part in the negotiations myself, but on behalf of the Left I have to acknowledge to the other parties of the Folketing that there has been such a willingness to find concrete solutions. The Left supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111900	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424111907	Thank you. In this case too, I am a lecturer to our social rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, but I need to thank the Left for a very nice speech. I would also like to say that I am not just a lecturer. In fact, I also took part in the study tour of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment to Ethiopia, where we have just been put into the conditions and also into the very sensitive circumstances in which the parents who deliver children for foreign adoption are in. We also saw that in Ethiopia they are fully aware of this and want to take better care of their own children and thus deliver fewer children to foreign adoption. It was a very good way to get this information also to talk to some of the mothers who have delivered children and who experience that they may have been a little cheated, because they thought that they were allowed to follow their children's lives and upbringing when they handed them abroad, and that it was not such a cut and forever goodbye to their children. It is true that adoption must always be primarily on the child's terms and meet the needs of the child. The child is the weakest party and is thus the one we have the greatest responsibility to deal with. This is the starting point for the agreement on a new adoption system concluded by the government last October with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, and which this bill translates. The basic principle in the area of adoption is that children must be helped first and foremost in the family and in the country in which they live, but if that is not possible, adoption to a completely different country can be the last resort. In our October agreement, the intention is to ensure the future of international adoption communication to Denmark, and we do so by means of several different tightenings, all of which aim to create a greater degree of governance and insight into the area. We are introducing stricter requirements for organisations responsible for communicating international adoptions. We are stepping up the supervision of organisations and making them clearer. Finally, we give an extra hand in the form of advice to the families who adopt a child. The latter, I think, is very important. The Social Democrats are behind the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424112126	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424112139	Thank you. The reason for this bill is that an overall analysis of the Danish adoption system has been carried out with a particular focus on international foreign adoptions. In addition, the Attorney General has also carried out an investigation into the supervision of the adoption-formulating organisations included in the overall analysis. The lawyer has pointed out a number of measures which, in his view, should be considered in relation to a new adoption system, among others. recommendations on clarifications in the basis of supervision and the need to clarify the content of supervision and who supervises the adoption agencies. On the basis of this, we have reached a political agreement which we reached on 2 October 2014. The bill translates those parts of the agreement that require legislative changes, and the overall purpose of the bill is to create a new adoption system and to ensure the future of international adoption communication to Denmark and to support the necessary stability of the adoption system while increasing security in relation to the adoptions being implemented. The proposal should therefore also help to support good conditions for the children who come to Denmark. The bill specifies the conditions for obtaining authorisation to provide international adoption aid. At the same time, the proposal limits the access of an adoption-formulating organisation to help work, so that aid work related to adoption assistance can only be provided. The supervision of the adoption-formulating organisations will be brought together at the Ankestyrelsen (Ankestyrelsen). That was the bill we dealt with earlier. According to the consultation answers, this will also strengthen the legal part of the supervision, which will become a more central part of the Ankestyrelsen. The bill is intended to provide adoption families with the necessary support in relation to adoption in order to support a good adoption programme for children. It is then proposed that there should be increased adoption advice before adopting, and after an adoptive child stays with the adoptive child in Denmark in connection with international or national adoption, so that it becomes mandatory. That's where you get more advice. It is no secret that the process of the agreement has also been difficult, as it is about children and biological parents and adoptive parents, and where there may be more fate behind it. The Social Committee visited Ethiopia in 2014 and we were here in dialogue with officials, police, embassies, and we also visited several orphanages, both private and public. It was a committee trip that I think I can say affected us all to such an extent. They told Ethiopia that the authorities were engaged in a process to improve their adoption process, doing just as we do, looking at the network's resources, also in relation to the foster family. After all, these are some of the areas we value highly in Denmark. We will, of course, follow the Danish People's Party's side and also ask for an assessment of how things are going so that we, as contracting parties, can follow the legislation closely. The Danish People's Party is part of this agreement and supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424112514	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424112523	There are places in the world where it has not been good to grow up as a child, and we have heard some terrible stories from orphanages where children have not had the love and care they need. Some of these children have been fortunate enough to be adopted to Denmark. Fortunately, the situation for children is improving in the countries from which we receive children and, as Mrs Karen J. Klint also mentioned, the countries will be better placed to provide a secure environment for children during their upbringing. After all, it is contagious by the fact that there are fewer children who are adopted to Denmark. This is, of course, in accordance with the principle that children must be helped first and foremost in their own family and in their own country. I think that for those of us who have not been in the situation themselves, it can be difficult to understand how much you as a Danish family want to adopt a child, but that does not change the fact that adoption must be primarily for the children and that international adoption must therefore be the last resort. This requires that we have a rather cautious approach to this area, which is why the guiding principle of the agreement we reached in October is also to focus on security and legality. The purpose of this law is to ensure the future of international adoption communication in Denmark by supporting stability and security. The bill adapts the actual organisation of adoption communication, strengthens supervision and also helps adoptive families to provide the necessary support to ensure a good progress for children. The Radical Left would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424112708	Thank you. The next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party is not present, and then it will be Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424112720	The scandals of recent years, which unfortunately have occurred, in the field of adoption have shown us an extreme need for basic clean-up. There have been mistakes in the cases, a mess in the economy and suspicions of so-called child harvesters, who thus directly distract biological parents from their children. Of course, such things call for responsible political decisions. We in the Enhedslist believe this, despite a long and constructive process of negotiation, that the other parties have not shown their willingness to take part. We do not believe that what has been achieved is something we can vouch for in the sense that we can be sure that when children come to Denmark, it is always the best thing for the child, and then it always happens on an ethical and legal basis. In the Enhedslisten we are partly concerned that the system will not be geared to ensure that adoptions to Denmark do not happen without biological parents being directly or indirectly pressured to adopt up for adoption. There will be no increased supervision in the issuing countries, and that will not be satisfactory, because the part of the process where such pressure takes place cannot be monitored. Unfortunately, there will still be financial incentives in the process, and thus there will also be a danger of biological parents being pressured or cheated to give up their children. In the same way, you will not separate the aid work, i.e.: economic donations, entirely from the adoption process, and therefore there will continue to be an economic incentive here too to continue the flow of adoptions. Of course, overall support must be given to the countries concerned in the construction of a child welfare system. We have also proposed this, but from Enhedslisten's side we believe that the two eyes of the goose should be completely separated from each other. At the same time, the adopted themselves do not get special rights with this bill, and certainly not in the way that we in the Enhedslist believe that a modern children's view should be put in place. They are not given the right of access to their own papers at the age of 15, which was otherwise recommended in the analysis that has been made, but only from the 18th year. They do not have the right to a relationship with their biological parents and family, which should otherwise be in the right to family life, that is, a human right. Nor will they have the right to be supported in relation to the country of origin. There will be no right to open adoptions, as you call it. Nor will there be a special right to advice and support, i.e. what is today called the PAS scheme, without the presence of the adoptive family, which several adults adopted have otherwise called for. All this should have been included, because the adopted ones of course come up with a story and a past that must be respected to a much greater extent than is the case today. We believe that the voice of the adopted has been overheard in this respect. This proposal also means that the many scandal-stricken private intermediary organisations which are currently responsible for the provision of adoptions will be allowed to continue, albeit in a slightly different form and with a little extra demand, but in our view this is in no way an end to the many mistakes that have actually been made. And from Enhedslisten's side, we had a very strong desire that the state should take over the handling of these cases, precisely because it is so sensitive. At the same time, cooperation has not even been limited to those countries which have underlined the Hague Convention, which is the Convention protecting the fundamental rights of adopted children, and that proposal has been rejected on the grounds that it would mean fewer adoptions to Denmark. We think this is reprehensible because this argument supports the assumption that there is an adoption system which is not only for the sake of children, but perhaps also for the sake of all sorts of others. We believe in the Enhedslisten that this reform should have been a genuinely fundamental reform. It should have been used to create a modern system that puts the adopted children at the centre. It should have been a system designed to ensure the best interests of the child before, during and after any adoption. All in all, we believe that these are only minor adjustments in response to a fundamentally very uncertain system. In the Enhedslisten, we don't think we can be that familiar. There should have been a lot more responsibility on the political side, and that is why, unfortunately, we are really sorry to be holding this bill in our hands today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113231	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Thyra Frank, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113243	The overall aim of this bill is to ensure the future of international adoption communication while increasing security in relation to adoptions. The bill tightens the requirements, the management and supervision of the adoption organisations, and the supervision of the adoption services is brought together at the Ankestyrelsen. Finally, the draft law must provide the adoption families with the necessary support in relation to adoption in order to support good adoption courses for children. The Liberal Alliance can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113319	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the last rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113329	Thank you. Here, too, I have promised to say a few words on behalf of the Conservative rapporteur. In the Conservative People's Party, we are great supporters of international adoption. This has given thousands of orphans the opportunity for a better life and a fresh start with new loving parents. It's so important to those kids. But the adoption system in Denmark has and has had very difficult conditions. In the past there were two agencies, but the number of children released for adoption in the world has been decreasing in recent years, despite the fact that, unfortunately, more orphans and more street children have arrived. In addition, there have been several scandals in Denmark. Here are the ethically questionable adoptions from Ethiopia with children's harvesters... most people can probably still remember the documentary about Masho... just as there has been a mess in the economy. The agreement of 2 October 2014 was a fresh start to adoption in Denmark, where a large financial boost was added and the requirements for the agencies were tightened. It was all for the purpose of providing the stability needed to run adoption in Denmark on an objective and sound basis. In the Conservative People's Party, we follow developments closely. It's so important, not least for the kids. Unfortunately, the development of international adoption has meant that we are many parties in the conciliation circle that have a great deal of scepticism towards the two agencies that have now become one. Therefore, we will also follow developments closely, so that we make sure that the good intentions of the political agreement of 2 October 2014 are also followed, so that we are sure that in future there will not only be order in the economy, but also, and above all, order in the ethical guidelines for the joy and benefit of both children and adopters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113521	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113528	Thank you, President. I would like to thank you for the discussion that we have had and the comments that have come to the draft law. When a decision is taken to carry out an adoption across national borders, the child naturally gets a new family far away from the place that the child already knows. It is difficult, and therefore it is of course also important that we deal with the issue of international adoption very carefully and with appropriate humility and with appropriate caringness. I also think that this is the approach that has characterised the discussions that we had last year, when we were just going through the existing system and the possibilities of improving the new one precisely for the sake of children. Our discussions have been carried out out out of respect for the area and, in particular, for the children involved, and we have been very, very thorough, I think. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you very much. There have been very, very many meetings I have really drawn bills from the rapporteurs but everything else just like that I think we have achieved the goal of a really good result. There should be no doubt whatsoever that I am very proud of our outcome. And I would also like to thank you, even though Enhedslisten does not support the proposal for the discussion that we had with Mrs Pernille Skipper, who very constructively, I think, was involved in much of the process. As Mrs Adsbøl says, it was difficult and it was difficult because there were so many dilemmas involved. And Mrs Adsbøl also said: it is about children. And that's exactly what was our focus all the way through: that it's about kids. And, of course, there must be no doubt, and so there was no question that consideration for children is absolutely essential. International adoption is also taking place to help those children who do not have better opportunities for help in their country of origin. And the draft law, as I said, translates the very broad political agreement of the autumn to ensure the future of the adoption system by, among other things: to strengthen the requirements for adoption communication and supervision, so that we can best respond to what was at the heart of our lives, namely the needs of the child. On the one hand, the proposal strengthens the framework for international adoptions. More stringent requirements are imposed on an adoption-formulating organisation and the requirements of the supervisory authorities are also being followed up. With that part of the bill, the system is geared to better respond to many of the challenges in this area and thus, of course, also improve the conditions for the children being helped through adoption. On the other hand, the proposal also increases the help available to the adoptive family, both adults and children, and it must ultimately improve the conditions for children. As I said, I am very pleased with the broad support for the legislative proposal, which hopefully means that the proposal can be adopted and will already enter into force from 1 October 2015. And in those words I would like to thank you very much for the debate. I look forward to the continued examination of the draft law in committee and, as usual, I also make myself available for questions and comments. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113902	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113919	The debate is open, and it is the church minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424113956	The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution that civil registration should be passed on to the public church to the municipalities is justified by the fact that civil registration takes place in the public church and not with a public authority, but also with, as stated in the proposal, that the popular church has a decreasing impact on the population of Denmark. I have to reject the view that civil registration does not take place with a public authority. According to the law, civil registration must be made by notification to the electronic church book, also called cpr, i.e. central registration, and the person register manager is therefore the public authority which deals with the notification, and whatever the work of the person register manager who carries out the task, it is also trained to be a public authority in this function. The second explanatory statement of the motion for a resolution, which I quote once again, that the people's church has a decreasing impact on the population of Denmark, does not seem to me to be relevant to the question of who should be responsible for civil registration. On the other hand, I think it is appropriate to look at how the tasks of these years change in character as a result of the digitalisation that is taking place throughout society. Since December 2013, it has been mandatory for citizens to use digital solutions in a number of areas. One of the areas is precisely the civil registration, where solutions have been made for the notification of four conditions: fatherhood, naming, name change and request for burial or cremation. The Government's objective of at least 80%. By the end of 2014, the requests must be made digitally by the end of 2015 in two of the four areas, while the remaining two are more than 70%. Everything therefore suggests that the request for civil registration will be fully digitised in the next few years. Furthermore, since 2010, births have been registered solely on the basis of the midwife's notification, while deaths are recorded accordingly on the basis of the doctors' digitally submitted death certificates. The Ministry of Church and the National Church, which has developed the solutions that are also used by the municipalities in South Jutland, is also looking at the possibility that the citizen's request will fall into place in the CPR without a person register manager having to carry out any proceedings. This can happen, for example, when a child must have a name that has already been approved. It will therefore be the case over the next few years that civil registration will in any case take place much more centrally than now, when it takes place in all the parishes, and therefore it must be the ambition of the church of the people to put together the task in one place. However, a more central location must be balanced with the locally anchored tasks of the funeral authorities in connection with death and funerals. If a majority wishes to move the task from the church and, in this context, the municipalities of South Jutland, there should be strong reasons for it and, if necessary, it should be for a central authority, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal I think that would be the most logical thing to do in a world as digitised as Danish society is. But it is also important to mention that there are still approx. 800,000 citizens for whom the legal information on, among other things, kinship is still only apparent from the handy ministerial books which are still in the parishes. And the work on digitisation, which is expected to take a few years, should be completed before the task may be moved. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114349	Thank you, Minister. There's a questioner, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114355	Thank you, Minister. I don't hear any arguments as to why you can't move it out of the church. We know that the church can influence people, and instead we should do it the way we have done it in South Jutland so far, and the municipality of Copenhagen is also examining whether their registration can be transferred to the municipality. But I have a question for the Minister, because the Minister says that if you really have to move it, you have to move it to the Ministry of the Interior. Does this mean that the Minister will be in favour of a proposal which transfers it to the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114433	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114435	No, it doesn't mean that. I just mention that if you want to move it somewhere else, it is not logical to move it out to the municipalities because you have it in the municipalities of South Jutland for historical reasons. Then you should move it to one central place, because digitalisation doesn't matter. You don't get in touch with the institution that makes the registration. That is the case with digitalisation. If I do not think this is a good idea now, it is because there is still a great task to be carried out and which must move the registrations of their relatives by 800,000 citizens into a digital form. It is a job that has been going on for a long time, and it is still impossible to move a number of citizens over, and that can only be done by the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114530	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114533	When in today's Denmark fewer and fewer people are baptized, fewer and fewer are confirmed, fewer and fewer are given a church funeral, I do not understand when the minister says that there is no less, but perhaps more, association with the church in Denmark. I think that's weird. So should it not be said that all people must be equal, whether they have no faith or have a belief other than that of the church? That must be what we have to say when it comes to transferring it to a place other than the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114614	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114616	I heard the explanatory statement in the first question from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, namely that it was used by the people's church, could affect people. And then, in my reply to the motion for a resolution, I argue that there is no contact between the person who has his child registered as born and the church of the people. There is no contact between the parents and the church. It is the midwife who sends a message to the CPR in the parish in question and has the child registered. So I find it very difficult to understand that you do not want a public authority, in this case an institution called the church of the people, with which the citizens who have to register different matters do not come into contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114711	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114714	There is no doubt that the fact that civil registration is in the public church is for historical reasons, and it expresses that there is a spiritual bond, a historical bond and a cultural bond between church and state. It is true that in quite a number of cases there may be no contact between the people who come and the parish priest in the parish in question, but I also think that a very, very fine service is being provided, which is part of the priest's work, by the way. The priest is not paid extra for this civil registration, but it is just something you take on and you guide in filling out different forms. I had two Chinese the other day, who asked for help in terms of naming, and I gave it, and I can promise Enhedslisten that I was not missioning to these two Chinese, but I helped them quite quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114825	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114826	Well, what's the matter now is that things are happening more and more digitally. There is an ambition that everyone is gradually using the digital solution. That is what we are working towards. Christian Langballe is coming with the two Chinese who need a handout, after all, could not take place in a while. For then you will have to register in a different way than that it is that I had almost said in my hand, without it being misunderstood, that is, without a personal appearance. So that's just what I want to emphasise. Then I would also like to stress that I did not get it in my speech, but I would like to mention here that what is the case if you move it somewhere else and it can be moved somewhere else is that the church will then still have to register its 4.5 million members, and therefore there is no social savings in moving it. On the contrary, there is an extra cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114928	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424114930	I would then like to follow up on the question. It is absolutely true that there is a lot of information stored in the church books that lie in the parishes and that the transfer to digitalisation is still ongoing. But I would like to ask the church minister if she can confirm that the system currently running, the civil registration that is now being run digitally, has been paid by the members of the church, and that they are the ones who have paid for this whole digitalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115009	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115009-2	It is true that it is paid by the individual church council.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115016	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Tina Nedergaard, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115030	Thank you. I have to say that, since the rapporteur, my good colleague Flemming Damgaard Larsen, is prevented from being present, I have to read his speech as rapporteur, but we can also lean safely on the Minister's speech, which was thorough and examined the current situation and what conditions there might be if we had to go another way. This motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten aims to transfer civil registration from the church of the people to the municipalities. Civil registration includes registration of births, paternity, naming, name change and death. The left is against the proposal. For many centuries, the National Church has been responsible for civil registration. However, in South Jutland, which has been under German rule, it is the municipalities that are responsible for the civil registration. But it has not given rise to problems that it is the church that is carrying out this secular task. This is done very unbureaucraticly and extremely cheaply. It is worth emphasising that it is a secular task where there is no preaching on the part of the priest or the chardregne. It is also worth noting that, knowing that it is located in the parish, it is a task that is solved most closely on the citizens, as the parish is the smallest administrative unit we have in Denmark. About 80%. of the Danish population are members of the church. That is why it is quite natural for the vast majority of the population that registration should be here. Something that works simply, uncomplicated and inexpensive, in the opinion of the Left, there is no reason to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115214	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115221	Thank you. With regard to this motion for a resolution, I am speaking as rapporteur for the party and not as a reader. I am also speaking on behalf of the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. We say no to the motion for a resolution, but not because we are opposed to the fact that there are probably some developments going that way. However, I would like to start by saying that I really hope that after the elections we will be able to have a new debate on how the structure of the people's church will be modernised, because I really think it is a pity that it has come to a halt in the parliamentary term we are in now. Because we need some renewal in the public church, but that the possible relocation of civil registration will bring about a great renewal, I do not think it is a secondary task, it is an electronic task that the people's church has. And it's a civilian and not a religious mission. I do not hear that there is much opposition to it either, but I do hear that it is very pleased that the people who need a change of name experience taking their time and showing respect when they show up in the Cordage Office and want help with something that may take a very long time • hours which would hardly be dropped at a public register office, which may not then have nearly as many opening hours as you have for civilian help in a parish office. So I think there are a lot of myths in what we have to do. However, like the Minister, I also believe that digitisation is the way forward, and I can also have the imagination to imagine that it could be a completely neutral place where it is all assembled. Then there are some others who have to carry out some tasks, on how to help people who need a change of name and who may also come from other countries and cannot get the papers from their home countries. These are, in fact, some of the major tasks that are being carried out by the church today without any calculation of any kind whatsoever. So it is a civil act that is being carried out, and so I do not see the great historical or religious reason why civil registration is there. I also think I have read in some places that the task was originally put there because there were the very best people to read and handle some statistics or registers. I see a challenge, not on the birth page, but on the funeral page, because the funeral law is also a civil arrangement with which the church helps a lot of people. And the municipalities do not have the same opening hours. There are municipalities that have closed down from Christmas Eve until New Year, so in the worst case scenario you can actually find yourself in a situation where you have to go through a funeral without the paperwork itself being adequate enough, and that is not very clever. So we look forward to a new discussion of the state of the church, and then we look openly at the electronic development that exists. And should it even reach the point that the place where the health care person reports a newborn child for civil registration is also a tab with all approved religions on it would be really good for me. In this way, by putting the flybones, we could say: this golden lump, the lovely child that was born, we would also like to tell our own religions about. It could be a great service for everyone, because having a child is a pleasure, and I think it is, whether you are a member of a religion or not. So let us use civil registration and IT in a more modern way in the future, but that will be a no to the proposal now, because you are not ready for it. As the Minister has also pointed out, there are many things that need to be made clear before we take the next step.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115555	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115559	Thank you to Mrs Karen J. Klint. I have discussed this with Karen J. Klint before, and I find it strange when Mrs Karen J. Klint says that you are voting against it, but that she is not opposed to it. Doesn't that mean that the church really has a greater impact on all sorts of people than people who are members of the public church? Don't believe in the church? Can't you just have an argument against that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115639	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115640	In other words, if it were to be quite short, some might say that it would be pure timing, namely that the time is not right. I very much disagree with the proposer that the church is affecting this. Today it happens electronically. The National Church has serviced Danish society for free by developing a very, very secure computer system. Society has not contributed to this; the church has contributed to it, but the church does not say any of it. If you are not a member of the church, you do not get a certificate that stands on the church. So what happens from home on the home computer, or another electronic thing, or what happens from the birth route to an electronic system, there is no religious influence on it. So for me it is a purely civilian task, which lies safely and well, where it lies right now, until developments may move in a different direction. That is also why I am linking it to what it is in general that the operation of the church should be, what tasks the church has towards society, because there are actually three civilian tasks for the church today. It's done this with regard to civil registration, it's got the funeral law, and then it's also doing weddings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115756	It's sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115759	Thank you. Mrs Karen J. Klint keeps talking about the Danish National Church. Of course, the church has influence. I can quote from the Church of People. says: The regulation creates meeting places between the church and the Danes, and it creates a self-evident relationship with the church's buildings. Several young couples have just discovered where their local church is, when they have a child to register for birth. Is it not true that in this way the church of the people is being highlighted to people, in that it should really be society that should take care of civil registration?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115844	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115845	So I find it hard to see the problem when the midwife on a computer sends a registration that interstates in a civil system in the public church. Nobody's watching it. So I'm having a hard time recognizing that story. I could have recognized it a few years ago, 10 years ago, but not today at all. Developments have run a long way from what the proposer says here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115909	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424115915	It is a well-known fact that Enhedslisten is fierce enemies of church and Christianity and will have separated state and church as soon as possible. The Marxist heritage of the party does not deny itself. Everywhere Marxism has set the agenda, it has been driven by a declared enmity to Christianity. One only has to go back to the Soviet era before the fall and collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. I myself remember walking down Nevsky Prospect, where the Communist authorities, in order to humiliate the church, had involved the church in a museum of atheism. I know that this resolution is about getting civil registration out of the church and over to the municipalities. But when it is the Enhedslisten who proposes it, you have the idea: you want to separate the state and the church. You want to destroy the Christian foundation on which Denmark is founded. Of course, one can discuss where it is most appropriate for civil registration to be located. The people's church does not go under, even though the civil registration is passed on to the municipalities. From a pragmatic point of view, one might ask whether it plays the major role of who sits at the keys: a priest or chord region or a municipal or state employee. On the other hand, it has to be said that the current system has been developed and paid for by the people's church and by the public church treasurers, so that is where the money comes from. And it expresses the general historical connection, because the civil registration back from the 1600s onwards lay out in the parishes and we still have the church books as the best proof of it. Nevertheless, when we insist that civil registration should be in the church of the people, it is because of the historical, cultural and spiritual ties between the state and the church, between Christianity and Denmark. It is a national conservative view which is very much about preserving and safeguarding Denmark's spiritual roots and thus Denmark. We do not in any way contribute to the rivalry of ties between state and church and between Christianity and Denmark. This proposal is clearly an attempt to prepare a separation between church and state and to attack the peculiarity of evangelical Lutheran Christianity in Denmark. So we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. When the decline in membership of the people's church and that, I would say, is exaggerated a little bit and fewer baptized people are being led into the field as an argument for removing civil registration, I would say this: yes, there has been a decline, but it also has something to do with the large influx of refugees and immigrants, which has taken place over the years and which, in particular, the Enhedslisten has warmly welcomed, since the party is almost in favour of free immigration. And no, I do not imagine that the Muslim is the first to go down and seek membership of the people's church. That's not the whole explanation, but it's part of it. As a second part of the explanation, there is this proposal: the proposal that Marxists have made over the years, so to speak, because they have run into the people's church. Sometimes I actually think it's a little miracle that we still have a public church and that it has so much support: 78.4%. That is what the motion for a resolution says. I believe that. That is something, and it really is a majority that wants something. How many are union members? Is it up to 78.4%?? I don't think so. Finally, let me confess that I prefer Hans Tausen, Grundtvig and Søren Kierkegaard to totalitarian and utopian thinkers such as Marx and Lenin, whose thoughts in every sense have failed. For Grundtvig and Kierkegaard the starting point was evangelical Lutheran Christianity and a Christian country. For Marx it was an aggressive, totalitarian and atheistic battle ideology. I hold Grundtvig and Kierkegaard and the church, because the church reminds us of the spiritual foundation. If you look at the legacy of Marxism and the spiritual bankrupt, you can just look at the old Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120432	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120436	I have two things to correct, as Christian Langballe says. Paragraph 1: The Soviet system was a bad system, and I have protested against the Soviet system ever since I was a young man. That was point 1. Paragraph 2 is about open borders. I am not in favour of open borders. Neither does Enhedslisten. So I'm just saying, sir. Christian Langballe should try to read what we've said about all these things. But I have to come up with a question, because I can hear that there is a big difference between what Christian Langballe says and what the church minister says. The Church Minister says: The Church has no influence. But Christian Langballe says: It is important that the church stands for it and that the priests do well. And maybe they will. Isn't it true, sir? Christian Langballe is in favour of greater power over civil registration in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120534	May I just say that the Soviet Union was not the only one responsible for an edition of Communism. I'm talking about Soviet communism. One could talk about Cuba, one could talk about the various crimes that have occurred in the name of Marxism, and everywhere Marxism has left a spiritually bankrupt. As far as immigration is concerned, I have never heard the Enhedslisten propose any kind of restriction, never. You may say you have, but I haven't heard it. Then I would say that civil registration and the relationship between state and church is a historical relationship and a spiritual relationship that indicates the bond between state and church. I do not imagine that the church of the people will have to do more than it does today. There is an ordinary civil registration, which has been placed under the public church and which is there for historical reasons. I find nothing strange about the fact that, as an old Christian country, we have our civil registration in this way. That is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120635	Thank you. Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120639	Now I understand what Christian Langballe means. He says that it must be the church that is responsible for the civil registration. Then I have a question: what should I do? I'm not a member of the church. Why do I have to ally myself with the church if I die or if I have to change my name, or anything else? I find it strange that it is in the church of the people when it really should be for all of us, namely all of us in our society, and that means that it is society that takes care of civil registration, rather than the church of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120713	Well, I have already said very clearly that it expresses the spiritual bond and the historical and cultural bond between the state and the church in Denmark. And I would say that the worst thing that could happen to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten was that he met a friendly parish priest who helped him. That's the worst thing that could happen, and I don't think that's so wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120734	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur from the Radical Left is not present in the Chamber, and then it will be the SF rapporteur, who is also not present in the Chamber. Then it's Mrs. Thyra Frank, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424120814	In Denmark we have a fantastic public church. It's not a state church, and it's not a free church. It is a people's church carried by members who voluntarily maintain their attachment. Even in our modern society is almost 80%. of the Danes continued to be a member of the church and pay church tax, although they could opt out at very little pressure on the keyboard. In other words, the Danes are happy and grateful for the church. The joy and attachment is not due to the fact that the Danes, in connection with registration of birth, paternity, naming, name change and death, must address the church office, because many of these inquiries are already being made electronically today. We can also note that the number of members in the church in South Jutland is fully in line with other parts of the country, even considerably higher than in the big cities, although the South Jutlanders have always made the registrations with the municipality. As you know, the reason for this difference is historical, from the time when the homeland south of the Royal River was German. It is therefore quite unreasonable to claim that it would weaken the public church if civil registration were transferred to the municipalities just as in South Jutland. Yes, the really old core Grundtvigians have always been opposed to bourgeois duties being in the people's church, and have therefore also married at the town hall. The blessing they could have every Sunday in the church was the argument. The task of the people's church is to preach the gospel, to keep baptism and communion, and to do so comes the voluntary diacional work and fellowship of the congregation. Civil registration should therefore be transferred to the municipalities in all parts of Denmark, just as it was expected in 1920 when, after the border transfer, it was maintained that the South Jutlanders had to make civil registration with the municipality. I am reading this speech to Mette Bock, our rapporteur on the subject, who could not be here. The Liberal Alliance can support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, confident that local registration will not lead to a fugitive of members in the people's church.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424121029	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have to say from Mrs Karen J. Klint that she also spoke on behalf of the Radical Left and the SF in her rapporteur's speech. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424121047	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we are well satisfied with the current regime. In fact, it is quite impressive what good and citizen-friendly service Danish citizens have when it comes to personal registration. Not only has the people's church developed digital solutions that are fully in line with digital solutions in a wide range of other areas of our society, but there is also a unique citizen-friendly service where you can go somewhere close to, which is often open, which is open at crooked times, and where you can get help if you do not want to use personal registration.dk. Therefore, if you are afraid of the church of the people, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is clearly not really there. But if you are not, and very few are, then you have a unique opportunity to go down and meet a priest or a chord • very many places it is a chord region and sometimes even a chord region that is not even a member of the church that carries out a task of authority. Then, as I said, the church has developed this modern solution. It costs about 100 million. kr., and so do the proposers. But it's quite easy to say that you can just pick up the 100 million. kr. in the church, because the church has also developed it here, because you do a lot of tasks that you also record for your members, and that is why you have developed the system. So the reality is not that you can just pick up 100 million. kr. in the church. The reality is that you can spend 100 million. kr. to create a system outside the church. So here is the question to the proposers: where will you find the 100 million? kr.? And I would have liked to ask the Liberal Alliance too, but I must do so in connection with the work of the committee, because I could understand that there was a substitute. Because if you support this proposal on the part of the Liberal Alliance with the arguments you put forward, you actually owe an answer to where the 100 million. kr. We must come from unless, in other words, we in the Liberal Alliance believe that 100 million can be cut. kr. on the priestly salaries which the proposal envisages. And with the initial fine talk about the church, I'm not sure that was the case, but we can clarify that. The fact is that the government has already cut 99 civil servants' posts in the people's church during this parliamentary term, and we are not in favour of further cutting away church priests. The two things have nothing to do with each other, by the way, because the reason why the state finances part of the priestly wages is that in the case of the land laws primarily in 1919, but also later, the church's land was confiscated, the land that was the clergy's livelihood, was removed and, in return, made a compensation arrangement. So this proposal also lacks money. And, alternatively, to support the proposal would also be to support that there should be fewer priests in the church. If this is about what one senses this is about: an aggressive atheistic struggle against everything that is our values and our traditions and our foundations here in society, an aggressive struggle which, after all, various atheistic societies have fought in the last few years in a far more missionary and aggressive way than many religions do, then it is clear that it is about the salami method: how can we abolish the people's church? How can we eliminate one of the most important parts of our cultural heritage in this society? And so you can, you hope, with a salami method where you not only cut the civil registration out of the church, but also remove a few priests now that you are in the process. We are not in favour of this at all. In practical terms, the reality is that you can just use personal registration.dk. You never have to get in touch with the church. In practical terms, this is something that is becoming more and more electronic, and in years to come everyone will probably, and if not everyone, at least most citizens will do it electronically. Can the church survive without the civil registration? Of course it can, but it would certainly be sin and shame for the people who had to do without the bourgeois service; it would be sin and shame if a number of clever parish priests were removed, and it would be sin and shame to spend 100 million. kr., if no more, to build a parallel system that we had to pay for over the tax ticket. So, for so many reasons, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424121558	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424121610	Thank you for the debate. I think I should start by saying that this is, in fact, a quiet and quiet proposal that civil registration should go out of the church and into the public sector. So I do not think it is aggressive or atheistic to make that proposal. It doesn't have to be. There may be all kinds of other reasons for this. I also find it a little strange that the arguments against it stand in all directions. Some say that it has nothing to do with the church, it is all digitised and you never come into contact with the church, while others say that the church is important because it is part of our Christian cultural heritage. I feel like I think that Denmark is probably one of the countries where religion and church mean least to the people of everyday life. Nevertheless, it is the church that is responsible for recording some of the most important events the lives of citizens: birth, naming and death. It is strange and incomprehensible to unbelieving people and to people of a different faith that the Christian church, which they have nothing to do with, should be involved in their lives. Registration means that many are forced into unwanted contact with the church, because even if the reviews of birth, infancy, naming and name change take place digitally today and you no longer have to go to the church office yourself, you do not avoid personal contact with the public church's register manager if there are deficiencies, doubts or errors in civil registration. We find this incomprehensible, and we lack a reasonable explanation for the fact that civil registration has not been transferred to the municipalities long ago. In countries around us, for example. in Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands and Germany, civil registration takes place with the public authorities, and in South Jutland registration takes place in the municipality; it is a relic from the period from 1864 to 1920 where South Jutland was under German rule. For a number of years, we have found that the church of the people has a profoundly decreasing impact on the population. We can do that, for example. Take a look at church statistics. The statistics show that every year fewer and fewer members of the church are getting baptized and confirmed, fewer are getting married in the church and fewer are being buried in church. The Association Humanist Society has conducted an opinion poll on the attitude of the population to civil registration through the YouGov Research Institute in 2014. A specific question was asked about where to register when a child is born, when a person changes his name and when a person dies. 1,001 adult Danes were interviewed, and according to the answers, 75% thought that registration should take place at the municipality; 17 per cent. considered that registration should take place in the church; 4%. 5 per cent. didn't answer. In the City of Copenhagen there is a work in progress with the transfer of civil registration. That work has our full support. We believe it is high time that the step was taken fully so that all civil registration is transferred from the public church to the municipalities. This must be very simple, namely by introducing the same practice throughout the country as in South Jutland. We are hoping for good committee work, and I would also like to thank those, including Mrs Karen J. Klint, who have agreed to discuss it. I think that although the proposal is not adopted, it is important that we take it as a continuous debate also in the Committee on Churches.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122007	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, Conservatives, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122013	It is because the rapporteur for the proposers says that it is just a small proposal and that it is just a small corner and something like that. But you're going to cut 100 million. kr. on the priestly wages, which is why it is so much more than moving the civil registration out of the church. It is also a question of wanting to remove 100 million. kr. from the priestly wages. It affects a number of priests, and I haven't quite figured out how many it is. Perhaps the rapporteur should stand by that. In addition, I would like to ask a question. Now that the rapporteur acknowledges that if there are no problems, you can do it here via personal registration.dk, and then you never have to get in touch with anyone. If you have problems, I would like to ask: what makes it worse to be able to call a chord region than to be able to meet a closed civil service office or meet a very, very long queue before you get through? Why is the chord rain so awful to talk to, since the chord rain carries out a task of authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122103	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122104	Thank you for the question. I think it's important whether it's a citizen service or a chord region. The difference is that the public authority covers everyone, while the church really covers those who are members of the church. So I think that's the difference. The other thing is when we talk about money. It is, of course, the case that it is really an expensive scheme. That's about it. 600 kr. per I think you can do that outside the church, so that it really doesn't get any more expensive. I don't think it's gonna be cheaper either. It will cost the same when it is in the public sector instead of within the public church.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122148	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122150	I hope that Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr can, after all, acknowledge that cormorants are doing authority work. It is, of course, a question of sowing doubts about some people, namely whether they can find a way of separating things. I think that is a pretty rough thing to do from Parliament's platform. The second is in relation to the fact that it will be about the same price outside the church. That's my assessment, too. It will cost approx. 100 million kr. for the state or municipalities to carry out this task, but Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr does not respond to this by cutting down on the priestly wages, which has nothing to do with it, because it is nothing to do with the people's church having to stop seeing who they are dedicating and burying, etc. So a lot of this work you're gonna have to do in the church anyway. So where are these priests going to be fired, and are there going to be even more priests fired? And sir... Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr may well understand that we think it is a pretty big case when you also talk about cutting 100 million. kr. In the priestly wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122244	But I think it's weird. It's work that goes out of the church. It's work that doesn't have to be done anymore. It's something that the church now takes care of, and that's 600 kroner. per person. And as a starting point, it is, of course, a matter of money that is actually being transferred from the church of the people to public society. So I think it's not going to cost anything, even for the priests. They have to make less, so of course they need less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122314	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122317	I think it sounds almost to the rapporteur as if you are infected with pestilence if it is the case that you do not believe in Jesus Christ and go to a church office and meet with a chord. Well, that's not the feeling I have of how this is going on. It's a regular public record. But I would really like to ask something practical: is the system that has been built up something that the state should just take over? I mean, is the system that church tax payers have paid, one that the state just has to take over squarely and freely? The second question is: what is being done about all the information contained in church books? Until 20 years ago, or when it was now, they were led by hand, but then it was slowly digitized. What are you going to do with that information? Do you want to seize the church books to get that information, or what will you do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122410	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122412	To the first question: you can of course inherit it from the municipalities of South Jutland; you can transfer it to the whole country. On the second question: of course you have to file it and also what is in the church books. It's not part of the church itself. What is in the church books is something that has been transferred from one person to the church. So, as a starting point, you have to take those church books, and of course you also have to archive it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122444	Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122445	I would like to remind you that the church books, whatever their relationship with the general civil registration, belong to the church of the people, and it is the church of the people that has traditionally and historically carried it out. And it has, because there is baptism and burial in the church, and therefore the birth registration has also been made as a service to the state. So you're gonna go in on the Enhedslisten's side and seize these church books, or what? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122515	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122516	The content of them must be seized, because it is important for the future too. You can then use the Archive Act. As a starting point, of course, you have to have our historical tradition of knowing when people were born, died, changed their name, or what has happened. So I think it is important to keep it, even for posterity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122541	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122544	It is a bit of a comment that I think we should try not to get this problem done any bigger than it is, because of course there is some genealogy that we need to have access to. But it was more like the economic calculation that actually tripped me a little. So I have not heard that anyone is paying to be registered as a civilian. I don't know the price of 600 kroner. to get it done. As Parliament, we introduced a tariff for name changes a few years ago, and a calculation was made of how long an average name change takes, and that was what you pay for a name change. After all, everything else is free services paid by the members of the National Church, no matter where you live. A free service is not something you can make up for money. So it is the church that pays the chords, and there is no state subsidy for the chords. Therefore, there is no money to be reaped by a move. I think, of course, that a friendly solution should be found as digitalisation progresses. But how did the 600 kroner I heard mentioned come from, or did I hear it all wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122648	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122649	It's a common arithmetic. The 100 million. kr. covers how many people are registered in today's Denmark, and when you calculate it in such a way that you share one with the other, it is 600 DKK. per person. I think it is important what Mrs Karen J. Klint says, namely that we must find a friendly solution. I think it is important that we say to ourselves: is this a major problem? Yeah, for some, it is. And why should there be some in this society who think it's weird when it's really a community task to provide for the civil registration of people when they're born or when they die? So I think it is important that the whole of society backs it, rather than as now, when it is only a part of the citizens. Even if it's 75%. 80%. I think it is important for all of us to come along.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122746	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122748	Well, that's the math I can't quite see, because today's registration is outside the church. It's in the maternity ward. In fact, it is only at home birth without the participation of a health authority that others should help to get it registered. Otherwise, it is the health care system that has the work minutes updating. That money cannot be reaped by anyone, because it will still be the health care provider who will then have to do it. In relation to where it is going to be in the future, and in relation to some social tasks, I would just like to briefly repeat that the seven Catholics who at the time brought proceedings for it lost the case. So, legally and morally, there's nothing to come for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122836	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122837	I can answer that quickly, because that is because it is in the law. Then you can't win a case about it. So I think that the law should be changed, because I think that whether it is Catholics or people like me who do not believe in anyone, it is important that we also have the opportunity to register everything civilly without having to have contact with the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122901	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122904	Yes, but the Danish People's Party cannot quite follow the calculation and the main calculation. So perhaps the rapporteur will send that figure with the 600 kroner. and the civil registration to the committee, because we are a little out of comprehension about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122919	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122921	Yeah, I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424122927	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting and resume it today at 1 p.m. 12.35.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424123507	I have to say that two of the four motions for resolutions under discussion here are about requiring the government to take various steps in cooperation with the Bureau of Parliament on pensions for politicians. The Bureau is not represented in the debate here today on its own. Therefore, before the debate starts, I would like to point out, on behalf of the Bureau, that a remuneration commission has been set up, which will have to come up with proposals by the end of 2015 on how the future payment and pension conditions for full-time politicians should be. In the Bureau we look forward to receiving the results of the work of the Service Commission, but so far, on behalf of the Bureau, I will follow the debate today closely. The debate has been opened and I have to say that there are double speaking time, given that there are so many proposals being dealt with together. The first is the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424123647	Thank you very much. If I understand it correctly, I think it was a very sharp review... we start with the motions for resolutions B 80 to B 83, is that not correct? Second Vice-President Yes). Just so I don't do anything wrong at that point anyway. As you know, a number of resolutions have been tabled, all relating to the retirement of ministers, to members of parliament, to mayors and to Presidents of the Regional Council. If you first take the motion for a resolution B-80, it appears that it aims to change the time when ministers, politicians in parliament, mayors and presidents of the regional councils can receive their pensions, so that in future payment can only be made at the age of the population pension. Proposal for a Parliament resolution B 81 is then intended to amend the rules governing the acquisition of a ministerial pension so that in future you will have to have at least two years' working time in order to be entitled to a ministerial pension. Then the draft parliamentary resolution B 82 aims to change the rules on what a minister can earn in ministerial pension so that the level is lowered. The proposal is that in future ministers should have had a period of office of two years in order to obtain the pension which they now receive after 1 year's working time, and at the same time the proposal is to reduce the maximum achieved by more than 8 years' working time to the level which today applies to 7-8 years' working time. The draft parliamentary resolution B 83 aims to introduce a ceiling on what politicians can receive in pension for political office, and the proposal is to set such a ceiling at a level equivalent to DKK 500,000. annual. The government agrees that the time is ripe to look at the overall execution of ministers, parliamentary politicians, mayors and regional council presidents, and this is also why, on the basis of an agreement between the government, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the SF on the implementation of a political agreement on more up-to-date and transparent administration to politicians, a commission has been set up. The remuneration commission, as the President rightly pointed out, must analyse the whole area in order to obtain an overall assessment of payment to this type of politician. The remuneration commission is thus responsible for analysing the overall payment of mayors, regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers, and the remuneration commission shall examine in the analysis all elements of the payment, including remuneration, allowances and pension conditions. On the basis of the analysis work, the remuneration commission must make recommendations for a simpler and more transparent system which also takes into account the interrelationship between the conditions of the different types of political profession. According to the terms of reference, the work initiated by the Pay Commission must be completed by the end of 2015. The Government will await the Commission's recommendations before deciding what the future overall payment should be. That is why the government cannot support the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424123954	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124000	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for a very good list of the proposals that we are now considering. The Minister for Finance refers to this remuneration commission, which I think we are all aware is set up. I would like to know whether the Minister of Finance would confirm that part of the political agreement that has been reached means that, regardless of what the Commission comes up with, the majority has promised to vote in favour of the Commission's proposal, and that means that the Minister of Finance has thus also parked the government's votes with the Commission and will also vote in favour, although this may mean an even lower retirement age than ministers have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124045	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124047	Yes, now I do not have the text of the agreement with me here today, nor the terms of reference of the remuneration commission, so I would really like to express myself in the language we have precisely used in the agreement in question, but it is true that the parties who agree to set up this commission are also suggesting that, on the factual basis that will then be provided, we can actually implement the substantive changes that can be proposed. And it is of course from the point of view that this whole area is best dealt with in context, and that such really detached decisions or considerations about parts of the service are not really so meaningful without being put into context with what is otherwise applicable to our terms, and that is also true of the terms of the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124133	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124135	Now I shall not try to make myself or the Minister of Finance wiser than we are at the moment, but I do believe that we often deal with things in a context and are perfectly capable of making decisions, even if it is a bit complicated on the part of the Danish Parliament. So I think it sounds a little strange that because one area is complicated, one should follow the conclusions of a Commission. But just so I have understood it correctly: is it the case that if, for example, the Commission comes to the conclusion that the retirement age for ministers must be even lower than today, then the government will also vote through that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124217	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124218	Well, at least now there are plenty of opportunities to make me smarter. Perhaps it is more difficult with the questioner. I certainly have plenty of room for improvement in many areas, but I really think that is a fair and quite good procedure on the part of the Danish Parliament. If so, it will be a democratic decision by a large majority in the Folketing to follow the recommendations that might come and that this area should be dealt with in its context. And I think that what the questioner is referring to is rather hypothetical, since it would seem to me to be quite crazy and not realistic if the Commission were to come to the conclusion that our retirement age should be lower, given that, moreover, developments in society are increasing the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124258	Thank you, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124302	Thank you. Now the Minister of Finance refers to the Salaries Commission and speaks on behalf of the government. But I would really like to hear about the Minister for Finance's attitude to retirement age. Is it the view of the Minister for Finance that the retirement age of parliamentary politicians should follow the Danish people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124324	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124325	It is precisely in order to take a factual view on the question that we have a remuneration commission. After all, that Commission assesses what is basically now our pension conditions. What exactly are our financial conditions? Whether we are ministers or members of parliament or mayors or presidents of regional councils? I think most people know that it is not an uncomplicated amount to explain the pension conditions of elected representatives. They are quite complex, like other parts of our economic conditions it is, depending on where we are elected and when we are elected and for what. There is then an opportunity with the Commission to get these things worked out in context, get the people right, what it is actually for some conditions that apply today, and get a sound and objective view of what is reasonable in the future. I think it will certainly be a problem with the fact that the retirement age is increasing for all other groups in society, and that this obviously weighs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124419	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124421	I have to say that I think the Minister for Finance is saying a little bit vaguely. The Minister for Finance must have an opinion himself on this issue, but the Minister for Finance is always referring to this remuneration commission. Now it is the case that the radical rapporteur, Morten Østergaard, has been out to say that he wants to raise the retirement age quickly. The Minister for Finance must have an opinion on this too. Does the Minister for Finance not think that the parliamentary politicians have an obligation to follow the parliamentary age that is today for the general Danish population?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124455	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124456	I don't think there's a parliamentary age. I think it is the voters who decide what it is more precisely. And when it comes to Morten Østergaard's proposal, I have clearly explained my position and the attitude of the Social Democrats towards them in all kinds of media. There is the connection, of course, that the things we have once agreed on pensions in Denmark can only be changed if we agree on this in a broad majority, which also includes the Danish People's Party. And there is no indication that we are. At least we are not in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124527	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124530	I know that a commission has been set up to look at the salaries and pensions of politicians and all that, but the Socialists must have an opinion on whether the retirement age should be the same for politicians as for all other people in Denmark. I think it is such a relatively simple question to take a position on, even if there is a Commission working on it. So I would like to ask the Minister for Finance what his position is: should the retirement age in here at Christiansborg for politicians be the same as the retirement age for Danes at all, or should it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124614	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124615	Now I know very well that in some contexts the questioner prefers to see things as very uncomplicated. They aren't so often when you get a closer look at them, and they really aren't on this question either. If you look at our pension conditions, the big debate is what to compare it with. Should you compare it with the old-age pension, with the old-age pension, or should you compare it with the old-age pensions which a great many Danish employees • in fact all Danish employees • work up? And the rules governing when you can receive your occupational pension and when you can receive your public pension, whether it is a national pension or an early retirement pension, are different. And that is why I think it is healthy and right and best and, in reality, most fair to ask a commission to clarify exactly what is basically the pension conditions already in force today, including for the questioner, both as to when to retire and what kind of pension you can get and how much it is, compared to how much you should have saved, if you should have acquired it yourself by other means, and then get an overall assessment of whether it is reasonable, whether it should be larger or smaller, in the context of what you should also be paid. I think that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124726	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124727	I think there's a lot of people out there who think that's weird. It was strange, then, that the Minister for Finance, the Social Democratic Party, could not answer whether it is reasonable or not fair that politicians have an earlier retirement age than all other people in Denmark. Mr President, I would like to quote the Minister for Employment. Henrik Dam Kristensen, who says: "Of course we must have some conditions that are comparable to what is out there. Now we have to see what the commission comes with, but my approach to it is that we should look like the rest of the population when it comes to retirement. Quote out. It is therefore the Minister for Employment who is the Social Democrat who has said so, and that is a sensible quote, I think. I would like to know whether it is the case that the Socialists will only vote in favour of this Commission's recommendations if the Commission ensures that the retirement age is the same for politicians as for the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124821	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124822	I believe that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is right in saying that the purpose of her question and this whole debate is that someone should sit down and look at it and think something specific; I think that is correct. Whether they do it or not, they have to do it themselves. My intention with the debate and with all the work on the Commission is that we should make these things work properly and objectively, and in this respect what the Minister for Employment is quoted is quite reasonable. It is just the case that if you take the trouble to get in touch with it and look at it, that there is actually a difference between when you can get a retirement pension, a retirement pension and a right to a retirement pension, and if you compare it with what applies to elected representatives, then it is different in all respects. Perhaps it was a good idea to clean it up in a factual way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124908	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124912	Thank you. I do not quite understand why, for the second time this week, we need an answer from the Socialists and the government that this is being sent to the Commission. As far as I know, we have to go out in a choice where we have to give voters the opportunity to choose from our positions. Well, the allowances are on commission, we certainly should not be discussing that, and we do not know what the Socialists think. The pensions of the ministers must be submitted to the Commission and we do not know what the Socialists think. Could the Minister not lift just a little bit of the veil, if only to his own personal opinion as to whether pension conditions, at least in terms of retirement age, etc., should be the same for ministers and ordinary people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424124959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125000	So now there is a very, very big difference between the positions of my party and the author's party, and there is also a very, very large difference between the political method in my party and in the Enhedslisten. After all, I am extremely comfortable with being a Social Democrat and not a member of the Enhedslisten. I think, of course, that our approach to commissions, with very often broad agreements, with a most often comprehensive, objective approach to what is really the problem and how it should really be dealt with, has far, far greater and better results than what the questioner stands for. After all, this is a fundamental political disagreement, and I am quite safe and rather excited about going through an election campaign where we can discuss this in depth. I think it's excellent. As far as my general position on this issue is concerned, I am well covered by what the Minister for Employment has said, well covered by the rounds we have already had with each other. I think it is natural that when something happens to the retirement age for the rest of the population, something happens to us too. But, unfortunately, you have to take the trouble to chew the material objectively, because there is a difference, and there is no denying this, between when ordinary employees can get their occupational pension and when they can get their national pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125117	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125120	Well, then we're not far apart. If that is to be the case, then we can vote in favour of our proposal, because that is precisely why we have to have the usual case-by-case procedure, which is normally the case with both motions for resolutions and legislative proposals. By the way, I would like to arrest the Minister in one area. He said that virtually all Danes have occupational pensions. It's notoriously wrong. There are long-term sickness, the long-term unemployed, the recipients of cash benefits, flex workers and the very, very large group of perhaps up to one fifth of those in the ordinary labour market who work in jobs without collective agreements and therefore without an occupational pension. It's a problem all by itself that we can't solve with this proposal. But that means we have a three-part. We have ministers at the top, then we have ordinary people who have worked on contractual terms and then we have a very, very large group at the bottom. Does the Minister not think it would be a good idea for the Minister to take the lead and say: now, at least, we are adjusting down to the most normal situation for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125220	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125221	There I think the questioner might be happy to examine the most normal situation for ordinary people in relation to when you have the right to receive your occupational pension, i.e. such a common occupational pension in a common Danish middle-class job, which, fortunately, there are very many of them across the questioner's description of social conditions at home in Denmark. We have many problems and many challenges, for example. Too many people on transfer income, but also a huge amount of people who, fortunately, have a quite ordinary job and benefit from ordinary occupational pensions negotiated by their trade unions. So I think that should be thoroughly investigated before proceeding with the treatment under the auspices of the Enhedslisten, but you have to do so yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125304	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125307	Even though the Liberal Alliance isn't in this... [Audience Outlook]... to set up a commission, and then one promises in advance Slavically to follow the recommendations. This is the kind of thing that we in the Liberal Alliance can get a little turned on anyway. If you could transfer it to the Tax Commission and the Welfare Commission and the like, then I think we would have had a much better society. Perhaps even with the Finance Minister's own argument, which is about us getting something more factual, rather than getting a little too much populism into the Parliamentary Chamber. So we would actually like to consider whether we should be involved in this, if we can then get a promise that we can also make the same model in the whole tax and labour market area. It opens up a whole new perspective in Danish politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125357	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125359	Following the desires and temptations of the Liberal Alliance is always a study in itself. I enjoy it in every context. That idea must then be tried to move forward where you are now seeking your influence when you are a member of the Liberal Alliance, and that is probably primarily in the blue block, as I hear it. Most recently, the Liberal Alliance has been talking about a real blue majority government, and if it should go so unhappy in Denmark that we have one, then we can take this kind of discussion as one of the first items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125435	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125437	A little as expected, it did not have the great interest of the Minister of Finance to leave the tax and labour market policy to experts who can make good suggestions about what we can do in Denmark in economic policy and then just follow the Slavic. That is only what we want when it comes to politicians' pay and working conditions. It is probably the first place in history that this has been done, and this may well lead to the suspicion that when it is for its own benefit one would like to follow the experts, but when it does not quite fit into the political programme that one currently has, one will not follow the experts anyway. I am sorry, but I think that the attempt should be made, because now that experts suddenly enjoyed it, it could be that the experts in tax and labour market policy would also be followed. You don't want to. Too bad, too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125535	I don't think that's too bad. In fact, I think that is quite reasonable. I believe that what makes what we have agreed on in this area in particular a quite sensible approach is that it is the very few people who can see through our pay, pensions and working conditions in the Folketing. I believe that many years of political practice and a lot of agreements of a different nature in these areas have meant that it is sometimes evenly opaque even for a user of the system. I really must confess that I need to get to the bottom of what applies to you and where the possibilities and limitations lie. It also becomes a matter for the media on a regular basis when there is not complete clarity as to how these matters stand. I think it is far better to put it in place in a way that is transparent and objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125626	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and then we start with the rapporteur's series. The first is sir. Kristian Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125644	I am not going to repeat the very excellent examination by the Minister for Finance of the content of the proposals. It is quite well described. On the other hand, I should like to welcome the fact that the Left has succeeded in bringing together a majority behind the proposal for a remuneration commission. We believe that it is a right principle when you talk about our own payment, that you have external people to assess whether the remuneration is both the ongoing remuneration and the pension compensation we receive as members of parliament, are similar and up to date in relation to what they get elsewhere in the Danish labour market. That is why I am pleased that on 20 May last year we adopted B 96 and had a remuneration commission set up. It is now working, and I have great confidence in its composition and its participants, and that is why the position of the Left is that we should await the report of the Commission on Salaries and proposals for a new remuneration and new conditions for members of parliament and other full-time politicians before we change terms, remuneration and retirement age. That is why we reject the proposals, and I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also reject the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125802	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125806	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he thinks that there are special circumstances or special needs that a minister has when it comes to having special conditions and special times when he has to pay his pension. Is it the case that a minister has a special need to get his pension before all other people and that it needs to be particularly much higher than ordinary people's pensions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125831	I feel that some of the current ministers would like to retire a little early, preferably as soon as possible and preferably within the next three weeks, if that were possible for me. However, in relation to whether, as a general minister, you should be able to retire earlier, I think it is an obvious subject to be discussed in the context of the other things. I have it in contrast to Mr. Christian Juhl and Enhedslisten members here so that when we have set up a remuneration commission that has been asked to look at it in a whole, I do not want to take out any single elements along the way. Then I want to respect the fact that this work is now under way. We have been the banner leader for this in the Left and we are pleased that we got a majority in favour of it, and that is why we do not come up with any proposals as to what the Commission should come up with of solutions. It does so itself, and we will take note of that when they come forward with their proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125917	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125919	Thank you. But usually we say that principles and attitudes are something we discuss and decide here. Then we can set up a commission to do some analyses and come up with some ideas on where to go. But to say to a commission that it must now come up with something, and then you just vote 'yes' to it, isn't that something atypical? And isn't it to creep in the skies of those citizens who may have to choose people by choice, that you don't want to take a position and don't want to take responsibility for the pay systems you introduce, and don't even want to discuss where you can interfere?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424125955	We have taken the discussion on the conditions of Members of Parliament very many times, and I think we will continue to do so as long as it is so that we can determine our own pay conditions ourselves. That is why we chose to take the extraordinary step of outsourcing, so to speak, the task of finding the conditions for a commission to look at it. If we on the Left have chosen to take the extraordinary step of saying that we will take what is coming and implement it, then it is because it should not be ourselves who decides what remuneration we should have. We want it to be someone who comes from outside and has knowledge of the political pressure that must be for a politician and the labour pressure that must be for a politician in Denmark who makes their bid for it. And we have said that we will carry it out unseen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130041	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130043	I would like to ask the position of the Left, the political position of the Left on the conditions for ministers. One example that has been mentioned in the media is that the President of the Left, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, can leave when he is 60 years old. And if he lives roughly as the average in Denmark, he will receive a total of 14 million tax dollars in pension. Doesn't the Left think that maybe it's just 1 my too much?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130122-2	These are the conditions that were laid down back in 1999 when the rules were last laid down on how ministers should be paid, how their pension savings should be, and other things. And it seemed a large majority in the Folketing back in 1999 was the right decision. These are the rules that still make it possible to obtain such an amount. Moreover, I do want people to live for a long time, which is why I really want to see even more pensions paid to ministers. 'Cause I kind of hope they live for a really long time. They'd love to. Those we have right now are just not going to go on for as long as ministers. So it is not really a question of 14 million. kr. Or half of it or something. I would like people to have a very, very long life, even if that means that we are paying them quite a lot of pensions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130215	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130216	So the Left would like Lars Løkke Rasmussen to receive more pension. That sounds exciting to me. Well, I didn't actually ask about the rules. That's it, sir. Kristian Jensen replied: what the rules were like and that they were from 1999. It's really good. What I was asking was: is the position of the Left that it is fair that, as a former minister, you can leave the labour market at the age of 60, already at the age of 60, and then you can have a pension all the way, for the rest of your life, for Lars Løkke Rasmussen for 14 million? kr. Kristian Jensen says that hopefully even more tax dollars will be thrown at the pension of the President of the Left? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130304	Now you can also hope that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen comes back and becomes prime minister and is for many years, so his retirement age is not at all 60 years, but much, much later. That's what you'd want. And that's why they're there 14 million. kr., as Mrs Pernille Skipper tries to turn into such a populist number you can use in this context, completely irrelevant. What is at stake is the adoption of a set of rules in 1999. The rules are in line with the rules governing, for example: occupational pension and other. And the conditions that existed when it was adopted are also being pursued. The ministers who are being ministers forward-looking and have not been so in the past have exactly the same pension framework as other similar pension schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130347	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, I would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130350	After all, there are a number of Left politicians who raise a large pension, a ministerial pension, while at the same time receiving a salary from the Folketing, in other words, where taxpayers pay wages and pensions at the same time to them. This is, for example, the case. on Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, Mrs Karen Jespersen, Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech and a number of others. Does the Left think that's fair? I think that it is rather strange that you receive both a salary as a member of parliament and you sit in the Parliament and receive a ministerial pension at the same time. So I know that the Left will answer something like that with a commission looking at it, but it is a little too easy, isn't it? Isn't it a little clever just to say: unfortunately, I can't answer that, there's something about a commission? The Left must have an opinion on whether it is a fair signal to send and whether it is reasonable to use taxpayers' crowns in such a way as to receive remuneration from the Folketing and pension at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130457	Now it was not very easy to get a majority for our remuneration commission. It was actually quite hard to get a majority for it, but I am glad that we did so and that is why Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has given half the answer, and I do not have to do so. On the other hand, I can say that I think that there are many things about the conditions that we have as parliamentary politicians today, which seem strange, in terms of how to pay and pay in the private labour market. Now we're just not in the private labour market. We're not. What kind of seniority or bonus pay should you have? Should you be paid according to the amount of speaking time spent in the Folketing, or how many proposals have been made, or how should you actually be paid? Therefore, our payment is a mosaic of many different things, and it is put together in such a way that there is a balance in those places where we are different from the rest of the labour market, and that balance can, for my sake, be moved. It can be moved, but it must be done in respect of the fact that it is a mosaic with different pieces, and it is of no use, as Enhedslisten does, to say that now we take one piece out of the mosaic and change it. I think that we should look at the whole mosaic, the whole composition of the conditions we have as members of parliament, and that is why there is no indication of what that should be like in terms of whether you can have a pension and pay at the same time. I would also like that to be seen in the context of our entire payment of remuneration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130626	Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130627	I think it must be possible for a large party like the Left, which has many members of parliament and many people working for it, to come up with a position in this area. I really believe that this is a matter of attitudes and values. Do you think it is fair that politicians should be able to withdraw from the labour market earlier than any other person in Denmark? It should be possible to answer such a simple question. I keep hearing from the Left that working must pay off. I agree that working should pay off. But then I just have to ask: why do you have rules that mean that you can retire as a politician at the age of 60? Is that appropriate? All those principles you have, they apply only to those people who are not in Christiansborg, so the rest of Denmark, but not yourselves? These are attitudes. You must have an attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130723	But it is difficult to answer if Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen continues to speak. The Left takes the view that we must have up-to-date rules in here that are modern and similar to those in other parts of the labour market. In other parts of the labour market, if you enter into an agreement on a pension scheme at a certain time, those rules cannot be amended subsequently. In the future, we have made it so that new ministers who come to have a much higher and later retirement age that follows the early retirement age that is in the rest of society. I think it is quite reasonable that those who become ministers after we have raised the retirement age, as for others who retire, should also have a higher retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130804	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424130815	Thank you. I would like to say hello to our rapporteur on this matter, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, and I am speaking on his behalf today as he is prevented from attending the meeting here. So I will read out the following: the Enhedslisten, with the motions for resolutions tabled, wants to change the pension schemes of politicians so that ministers, members of parliament and mayors can only receive pensions from the retirement age. I take it that 'like' means that the proposal must also include our Regional Council Presidents. The Enhedslisten also wants to have been a minister for at least two years before entitlement to a ministerial pension is earned, and to change the calculation of the ministerial pension so that it is reduced overall. Finally, Enhedslisten wants to introduce a cap on politicians' pensions totalling DKK 500,000. and abolish the possibility of receiving a ministerial pension if you receive remuneration from another political office or from another political post. The Government, together with the Left, the SF and the Conservatives, has set up a remuneration commission. The Commission will carry out an overall assessment of the overall execution of ministers, members of parliament, mayors and regional council presidents, including pension schemes. In this way, we can create greater openness and transparency in the administration of politicians in different positions, as well as ensuring that remuneration and pension schemes are in line with working conditions and responsibilities. The Socialists' call is that we respect the work of the Commission. When the Commission makes its recommendations, we will therefore change the future pension schemes and other remunerations of the politicians. For the Socialists, it is a matter of making thorough decisions that best support our people's rule. Mayors, Regional Council Presidents and MPs and Ministers carry out tasks in which they are responsible for important social decisions and tasks. For us, it is central that we can continue to recruit politicians widely in the population. Salaries and pension schemes may also be considered in politics. I cannot say whether they do; they did not in my own case. So I would just add that it is the case that ministers and members of parliament can have pension schemes paid out, and we have, of course, corrected it in recent years, but when a remuneration commission has been set up, it is also in recognition of the need to look at it in a slightly different way than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131056	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131059	Thank you. I am aware that Mrs Karen J. Klint is standing there as a temporary rapporteur, so if I exceed a limit by asking the question, Mrs Karen J. Klint must of course say so, and then I will keep my mouth shut afterwards. I'd like to hear something. My colleague, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, quoted just before the Minister for Employment from the Social Democratic Party, who said: 'Of course we need to have some conditions comparable to what is out there. Now we have to see what the Commission comes with, but my approach to that is that we should look like the rest of the population when it comes to retirement. We heard the Minister for Finance, who is also from the Social Democratic Party, say that he was in line with the Minister for Employment, as far as I heard, but that it was too complicated and that it should simply have been revealed how the rest of the population's pension conditions were. Does this mean that the Socialists promise that even if the Commission comes to the conclusion that there must be even more lucrative pension conditions, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131212	I do not have the imagination to imagine that a remuneration commission will change this substantially, and certainly not in the direction suggested by Mrs Pernille Skipper. Because a commission has just been set up to provide more general conditions, and that is why I believe that the Commission will come up with something else. That is also why we say that we do not want to interfere, that we do not want to influence the Commission beyond the mandate that has been approved here in the Folketing and that they then work for. I think it is a little untimely interference if we come up with some fixed opinions or too many statements of opinion in the process and at the time we have right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131247	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131249	So the Socialists have a position, but the Socialists do not have a position after all. I would like to ask whether it is not in any case a bit like disclaimer that we are doing something as unusual as not just setting up a commission to uncover an area and make some proposals, but also promising that we will vote in favour of what the Commission is bringing in. Is this something that we want to see from the Socialists in the future, that is to say that we simply stop having a political attitude and park it with a Commission, which, moreover, consists primarily of political friends, if we can put it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131340	I do not think that everyone is politically friendly when you look at the names of this pay committee. My party has not taken a position in principle as to whether we should have some prioritising councils or other councils that we have in some countries, because we really think it is important that we should be able to discuss politics and political positions. We have not taken a firm decision in the party on how to land pension schemes, how to land remuneration schemes, how to land post-revenue schemes, but we have, in the last few years, when I myself was rapporteur, also helped to limit some of the benefits that were, because we said just now that the time had run out of the old systems. What we need to talk about now is not the old arrangements, it is the future arrangements, and that is why it is a little important to look at what should be the future arrangements. We cannot put an end to the retroactive arrangements, but we have two or three times just in the time I have been in here helped to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131433	Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131435	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would say the same thing, namely that it is quite okay if it is the case that the rapporteur will not reply to it or cannot answer it. But when you set a commission to take a position on something, and when you say that you will vote in favour, is that not the same as climbing in flight hiding and saying that the Commission is taking a position for you? Then it is not even necessary for the Socialists in their parliamentary group to decide what they think of it, because they have said that the Commission can decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131512	If I am to follow the line taken by the questioner, it is not necessary to table these motions for resolutions here and ask the questions that are being asked, because then we have been able to read inside and see what it is actually for political agreement that lies behind motion for a resolution No. B 96. I think we will have a debate on what the remuneration commission is bringing in, but let them now work so that we can see the product.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131534	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131534-2	It is precisely because we have read motion for a resolution B 96 that we think it is atypical to park one's policy formulation in a Commission where there are wise usury. This is not a normal way of making politics. I believe that these are positions, but they are political positions that need to be taken in order to take that decision. I would just like to ask Mrs Karen J. Klint's position on this question: should conditions be improved, or is it okay that we try to fit them in so that they become a little more similar to ordinary people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131616	I do not know whether it is to express a political opinion to talk about the amount of remuneration and the amount of pension in here. At least in the past we have been blamed for taking it as a political debate in this Chamber. It has just been said that this is not something that we must do ourselves, but that we must let others do it. When we let others do it, we'll be blamed for it too. So it is as if we cannot completely satisfy everyone because there are two sets of different expectations. I do not think we should have perks that are out of balance with the rest of society. Personally, I think we should have a parliament that is composed so that we represent the breadth of the population. It is in terms of age, education, interests, political color and in many other areas. That is why I am very confident that the remuneration committee can carry out this analysis just now freed from political tricks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131705	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131707	Thank you. On the basis of the answers I have received so far, I would like to ask Mrs Karen J. Klint: does Mrs Karen J. Klint have a position on what is reasonable in relation to the remuneration and pensions of politicians and ministers? Does Mrs Karen J. Klint have an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131726	Yes, I do, but I don't know if I'm obliged to publish this today. But I can then say that I am at least resetting because I think that although I have the age I have, I can still contribute away to some democratic processes in here, even without raising my folk pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131742	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131743	Is it to be understood this way: No, there is freedom of expression, there is no duty of expression? This also applies to members of parliament. But is that to be understood? I could imagine that the voters were a little interested in hearing what Mrs Karen J. Klint's views are, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the specific proposals we are putting forward here. But the electorate must be prepared so that they cannot be told in the coming election campaign, because it seems that the commission will not be ready. Then I just think I would like to ask the question: what is Mrs Karen J. Klint doing in the Danish Parliament if you cannot explain what one's opinions are about as simple as what politicians' salaries and ministers' pensions are supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131824	I am happy to express my views at electoral meetings, but if I have to answer as specifically as Mr. Finn Sørensen is calling here today for those elected after me to be attached to my statements in this Chamber, and I do not want that. I also want a new and hopefully much larger socialist group to have an open-minded discussion on how things are going to land when they are due to land. So what the private person Karen J. Klint has of opinion, I take with my constituents at home in my circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131852	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424131903	Thank you. Yes, it is a very interesting debate that we have today. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Enhedslisten, for raising this important debate, which, among other things, is a very important one. is about the retirement age of politicians, where the wish of the proposers is that the retirement age of politicians should follow the rest of the population. We have already proposed this in the Danish People's Party, and of course we fully support it. We are well aware that the Folketing cannot and must not be set up as a normal workplace, because it is not, and it will not be, but the conditions must be transparent and sensible enough for the citizens to accept them. In the Danish People's Party we consider it reasonable that the retirement age of politicians should also follow the rest of the population. It would also be good if, as a minister, you could only get a ministerial pension after a minimum of two years in the post. With the current rules, as a minister, if you sit for a single year, you can cost taxpayers in the region of 4.7 million. kr. In the case of old-age pensions, the pension is calculated on the basis of the average age of life. The Danish People's Party considers it reasonable to have been a minister for at least two years in order to obtain the right to a ministerial pension. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of ministerial raids during this period and it has been an expensive round for the Treasury. These motions for resolutions propose that the government, in cooperation with the Bureau, submit a legislative proposal for a ceiling on ministerial pensions and pensions for parliamentary politicians. It is proposed that a ceiling be introduced for politicians' pensions so that no politician can receive more than a total of DKK 500,000. in pension from political offices and positions which it has obtained as elected representatives, and that politicians who can receive pensions from, inter alia: The European Parliament, the European Commission and other international organisations, from the Folketing, ministerial posts, regional councils or municipalities or civil servants' appointments in the state, can receive a maximum of DKK 500,000. in politics pensions collected annually, as well as that ministers and parliamentary politicians who have earned the right to a politician's pension during this parliamentary term will also be subject to these changes. In the Danish People's Party we would like to look at how to adjust the area and we are in favour of the proposals. As has already been said, we have seen successive ministerial robberies, and we have also dealt with proposals in this Chamber in the past. There were, for example, a former tax minister, who had spent 53 days in the post and then was no longer a tax minister, but was suddenly able to obtain an amnesty for 18 months, equivalent to 1.7 million. kr. I don't think most people will be able to see the reasonableness of that equation. The present government, together with a majority in the Folketing, has carried out a number of reforms, including the tax reform, which reduced the economic conditions of some of those who have the least in society, including those on transfer income. But the government and several other parties have then set up the remuneration commission. The interesting thing is that before the Commission has presented its work at all, a majority in the Folketing has given each other the hand to follow the recommendations of the Commission. This is interesting in itself, and it is also strange, as I have not seen it before, that, whatever the Commission's recommendations, you follow without having a debate on it. I am also surprised that the setting up of the Commission has not put it together so that it, it can be said, represents a wider part of the population. It could also have been interesting that there had been a craftsman among them. But we are certainly looking forward to the committee's reading and are in favour of these motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132312	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132328	Today we are discussing a number of motions for resolutions tabled by Enhedslisten on the pension and retirement age of politicians. In the Radical Left we want more up-to-date and also more transparent pay and working conditions for parliamentary politicians and ministers. That is why we have also set up an independent commission to investigate the area and make recommendations, among other things. on the retirement age of politicians and the Commission must make these recommendations before the end of this year. The remuneration commission, as it is called, is set up by the government, the Left, the Conservatives and the SF, and it must analyse the whole area so that we can have an overall assessment of remuneration or what most people would call salary, for full-time politicians, i.e. mayors, regional councillors, parliamentary politicians and ministers. In the Radical Left we have the view that if the people work longer, of course politicians must also work longer. That is why we from the Radical Left are sending a very clear signal to the Commission that the parliamentary pension should be equated with the occupational pensions of similar groups in the population. We will adopt the Commission's proposal, so that we do not find ourselves in the miserable situation of adopting our own salaries and our own pensions as politicians. That is why we are not voting in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal today either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132458	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132503	It was very interesting to hear that the radical rapporteur had a position. As I understand from the radical rapporteur, the Radicals also believe that retirement age should be the same for parliamentary politicians as for the rest of the population. Can the rapporteur confirm that it is the opinion of the Radicals that the retirement age should be the same as for the rest of the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132533	Now that we have increased the pensionable age for the rest of the population, it has been increased, because at least we all live longer on average, we think it is also fair that the same thing happens with the retirement age of the parliament. There are different retirement ages in different age groups. Some are already being phased in, and we know that those who are younger than us will be working even further. But the principle that they should follow the same trend is what we want to signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132619	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132620	Now it is the case that the radical Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has been out to say that the Radicals will raise the pensionable age more quickly than has previously been agreed in relation to the Welfare Commission. So is it to be understood that the radical rapporteur also believes that, as a parliamentary politician, you should not retire until you are 68 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132645-2	We in the Radical Left have now proposed that one of the solutions to ensure the economy of Denmark could be to speed up the decision that you will later have to reach 68 years of age as a retirement age. If we speed it up, there will be room for manoeuvre earlier, which is why it is of course also intended that the same would be the case for parliamentary politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132722	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132725	I am glad to hear the Radicals say that they think that if we increase the retirement age of the population, we must also increase the retirement age of politicians. It could then have been done earlier, one might say. It would have dressed the Radicals, but peace be with it. Now we're looking forward. We have to move on, I understand. Does this mean that the Radicals will only vote in favour of the Commission's recommendations if the Commission says that the retirement age must of course be the same for politicians as for the population? And when I ask about it, it's of course because otherwise it's just empty words that don't matter. In other words, will the Radicals commit themselves, of course, only to vote in favour of the Commission's recommendations if the Commission says that the retirement age of politicians and the population must be the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132817	Now we have set up a Commission consisting of, I think, wise people who also have ears and hear what is going on in the debate and, moreover, follow what is happening in society. We think it is quite important that they should also listen to us suggesting that the retirement age should increase and that we believe that the retirement pension should be treated in the same way as comparable occupational pensions. That's a very good principle. But if we do not want to take the decision ourselves, it is because we think that the fact that politicians should decide their own salaries is an unfortunate principle. And that is why we have asked a commission to come up with an overall solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132914	Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424132916	Well, that just shouldn't be a hard question to answer. That is the very simple question: should politicians and the population have the same retirement age? It shouldn't be hard to answer that question. I can hear the Radicals saying that they think so, but when you are not willing to follow it up with action, the words become a little indifferent. If you as a population are to believe it and be able to use what the Radicals say for something, the Radicals should say: a commission has now been set up, but of course we will only vote for it if the retirement age is the same. Why is this so difficult? Why is it that the Radicals cannot just say: we will only vote for this if the retirement age is the same? It's so simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133004	The general principle is that we think it is unfortunate if we in this floor, as has happened in the past, have to decide our own salary. That is why we think it is actually quite reasonable that a commission has been set up to look broadly at what applies in life outside Christiansborg, what it is for different types of full-time politicians we have, what it is for different conditions there are and what the history is like. That is why we in the Radical Left have also sent out the strong signal that, of course, we expect them to notice that we have decided to raise the retirement age. That is why it is nothing more than what we expect to be the result.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133054	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133055	Thank you. First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur to make it quite clear: does the rapporteur agree with the Enhedslisten's proposal on retirement age, so that you can only get your minister's pension when you reach retirement age? Or will the current difference be maintained where a minister can receive a pension from his or her retirement age? I got a little unsure about what the point was. Another question is: the rapporteur says that it is not a fortunate principle that politicians should decide their own salaries. Well, we'll get to that. I understand that the Commission does not decide; it makes a recommendation and then we have to vote on it in this Chamber. In other words, the rapporteur will not be able to rule on our salaries and on the salaries and pensions of ministers. So what was the point of that sentence?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133152	The point of that sentence was that now there is an independent Commission which makes some recommendations. In order not to make it the subject of the big negotiations and horse-trading, it has been decided in this very special situation to follow the recommendations of the Commission. But back to whether you have to have your pension paid when you become an old-age pension or when you reach retirement age. It must of course be true for politicians, as for others, that there is a pension age for those pensions called occupational pensions which are lower than the actual retirement age. I mean, it's five years earlier. Therefore, no clear answer can be given as to whether the retirement age or the retirement age should apply. Here, too, we are waiting for the Commission's analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133304	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133305	Then I was at least able to clarify that the rapporteur does not agree with the Enhedslisten's proposal. That much attitude we could then get squeezed out of it I understood it, if that is correctly understood. I would like to come back to the second question: does the rapporteur agree that when we have to press the button at some point on the basis of some proposal that has come from a Commission, we are giving our opinion as to whether it is reasonable or not? Or does the rapporteur think that it does not matter what opinions they have? Because now the commission has been asked to do this, and no matter what the commission comes with, you vote for it. So I just ask: what is our role as politicians when we can invent a system in which we do not need to have an opinion on what we are going to vote on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133400	Of course we have a position in the Radical Left. It is also the one we have made known. We have been thinking for years that the retirement age of politicians should increase. If the retirement age of all other people is to increase, politicians must also. We have also been saying for years that we want the parliamentary pension to be equated with comparable occupational pensions, because it is a very special labour market, you might say, we have in here. There is not an employer and a worker who can negotiate on the salary, and that is why a remuneration commission has been asked to look at it. Of course, in the end we must agree on how we will vote, but we have just indicated that there will be no such thing as that we like paragraphs 1, 3 and 5, and then we will decide something quite different about the other points. It must be a package we will vote on in due course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133456	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133457	If you increase the retirement age of the population, it is reasonable to do the same for politicians to agree entirely. And that's really good. In fact, I have also heard that Radicals have said this several times over the past few months, because some people may have found it a little hypocritical that the chairman of the Radical Left, Morten Østergaard, has been out to say that the retirement age of ordinary people should be raised when he can retire himself at the age of 60. So what I would like to hear is this: should the new rules which the Radical Left does not decide for itself, but hope to mean increasing the retirement age for members of parliament as well, also apply to Morten Østergaard and the others who have been elected at the same time as him?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133600	The radical attitude is that the pension conditions of politicians must be made more up-to-date, and this also applies to current members of the Folketing, including, of course, Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133613	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133615	That's interesting, isn't it? I think that is a really, very important promise we have made here from the Radical Left. For the last time the terms and conditions of retirement and the remuneration of members of parliament were changed, it was said very clearly and against the wish of Enhedslisten that the terms and conditions of the members elected before 2007 would not be changed. This is among other things. Therefore, Mr. Morten Østergaard, chairman of the Radical Left, has some pension conditions which mean that he can leave as early as 60. But now I understand that the Radical Left of the Parliamentary Chair has promised to the people who feel unreasonably treated that when the new rules come it will hopefully be an increased retirement age for members of parliament too. Morten Østergaard himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133707	Whether the rules will apply retroactively is also up to the Commission to look at. It would be a new breach that the rules should apply retroactively. After all, we have changed things that apply to the future from the years chosen, so what we think is that, as far as Morten Østergaard is concerned, he is a current member of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133736	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133739	Normally, when we adopt something, amendments can be tabled in the ordinary democratic process. So now we need a system where a commission comes with a complete package, and then it is called: take it, or don't. Is it not a breach of ordinary democratic principles when we have to adopt something in the Folketing, to choose this form?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133804	I am not going to put the text on exactly how that process is to take place. After all, it is a process in which both the Bureau and the government are involved. But what are the principles? The principles for the Radical Left are that we do not want us as members of parliament to decide for ourselves the salary and the timing of pensions. We have parked it in a commission, and we have said so that we will listen to it and that we will follow it. Then, of course, we will then have to see how the final process is going to take place. I cannot imagine that amendments cannot be tabled in the Folketing, but there is always a majority to adopt things here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133856	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133857	Now I think I'm getting confused at a rather high level. Well, first of all, we were told that you can't just take points 1, 2 and 4 and then leave the other one. You can't mess with the Commission's proposal, but now you can, if you like. Secondly, we were told that it is on the basis of the Commission that what the Commission brings is in favour of the government. So the government doesn't do that anyway, I understand. If the Radicals do not agree, they will vote against it. That is liberating, I think, and I am really glad that there is room for an opinion on it. Thirdly, there is a dilemma, because on the one hand Mrs Lone Loklindt says that you should not follow the Commission, but on the other hand you should do so anyway. What are the facts of this? It's gonna get very confused about that, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424133951-2	There is a process ahead that neither of us knows exactly. But it is the case that we have indicated that once we have set up a commission to uncover these facts, we will follow the Commission. This is actually done on the basis of the principle that we not only in the Folketing should sit and decide our own salary, but that this is something we have asked for an independent commission to map and analyse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134026	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134028	I would like to return briefly to something we have talked about before, because there have been some unclear reports, including on the social media, from a number of radical members of parliament on the issue of the Radical Left's position on when MEPs should be able to receive their pensions. That is why I should just be absolutely sure that the Radical Left does not believe that the retirement age of members of parliament should be identical to that of the retirement age. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134115	We have asked a commission to map this out here and we have asked a commission to make some recommendations on how to organise remuneration and pensions for all full-time politicians. The Radical Left takes the view that when the general public is asked to work longer, if they can, politicians must also work longer if they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134146	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134147	I am with you so far that the Radical Left believes that members of parliament should retire later than is the case today. I think that is quite clear. What has been discussed on a number of social media because a number of Mrs Loklindt's colleagues speak very cashly about the same retirement age is, of course, whether it is simply a higher retirement age or whether it is a wish to be a retirement age. For my sake, the Radical Left must have the view that the Radical Left wants, but it would be nice if we could clarify what the view is. So is it between the present age and the retirement age, or is it the retirement age? There must be a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134242	I cannot give a clear answer to where those recommendations end. We have tried to influence it by saying that when we think that the people should work longer, we also think that this is a clear signal to the Commission that we, as politicians, must work longer and thus retire later. When there are many different views on the social media, this may be due to the fact that there are very different views on it, but that we await the recommendations of the Commission and then take a position on the whole package.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134325	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134337	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that it is almost a year since the Folketing decided two things at the same time. One was that we thought it was sensible to increase the remuneration of local and regional authorities. We agreed on this because they were simply too poorly paid. And as part of the political agreement that SF was also part of, it was implemented. In addition, it was then carried out to set up a commission to work with, among other things: the issues proposed here by Enhedslisten. This means that they have been working for barely a year and they must be completed by the end of the year. When the SF thinks it makes sense to look at this, it is of course because, in our opinion, there are certainly some absurdities in the way it is knitted together today. That is why some things that need to be worked on in the Commission are important to us: that there should be a link between different types of remuneration that are similar, that it should be a modern system and that there should be transparency in terms of remuneration. Some of the discussions that are, of course, here are linked to whether they are now doing their job sensibly in this remuneration committee. I'm betting they will. It is sensible people that we have put in, it is people who understand that up-to-date, of course, means that when we instruct everyone in the country to work more, it must of course also apply in here. In many ordinary jobs you work with attachments etc. I would just like to say before I finish by saying that we are betting on the Commission and thus will not be voting in favour of these proposals, although we can of course agree more with some of them than in others, that it is not the case that these things have not been discussed in the Folketing, as the rapporteur of the Left also said. In the years I have been sitting in the Folketing, we have discussed this innumerable times. Have we always got along well with it and made some very sensible decisions? To that I would say: no, it is not always that they have hung up terribly well. My expectation and, at least, my strong desire for the remuneration commission is that they should do something that is more stable, and it is also with the view of the matter that we have endorsed both the resolution and that such a commission should be set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134705	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134708	I understand that the SF is in agreement with us in the Enhedslisten that we should do something about these politicians' privileges, which very many people think are deeply weird. I can understand that. I also think they are deeply weird, and I also believe that they actually contribute to the politics of Denmark. What I cannot understand, on the other hand, is why the SF has entered into an agreement that you will vote for what this commission is coming up with, regardless of what it comes up with. For what if the Commission does not come up with that politicians and the people, for example. Must have the same retirement age? So SF will just vote for anyway, or what? Well, why can't the SF have an opinion on these issues? I think that these are relatively simple political issues that parties can be expected to tell what they think of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134759-2	I agree with the questioner that it is unusual for such an agreement to be reached. The reason may lie in what I said before, that the Folketing has not always had so much success when we have been doing these things. It is a perpetual discussion about these things, and it would seem to me to be fantastic if we could find something that we could very broadly agree on, at least for many years to come. That would be a great advantage for all of us. The last thing I want to say to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is that the questioner does not make me decouple the connection to the brain on the day the Commission comes up with its proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134849	Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134851	But the last one was interesting, depending on what it means. Because when the rapporteur for the SF says that the rapporteur does not intend to disconnect his brain when the Commission comes up with its proposal, that sounds nice to me. But I guess that's what SF has made an agreement on, because SF has made an agreement with e.g. The Social Democrats and the Left say that when this Commission comes up with its proposal, you just vote in favour, no matter what the Commission comes up with. So you actually made an agreement to disconnect the brain. I think that's weird, and I think it's stupid too. But isn't that exactly what you've decided to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134929-2	No, that is what I want to assure Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen that we do not. Where we may not quite understand each other is that I trust that it is sensible people we have put in, who both have ears and think for themselves and find a reasonable balance in what they bring in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134953	Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424134957	I understand from the SF's rapporteur that he believes that there are some unreasonable things. But I am a little surprised, precisely because it has been decided that whatever this remuneration committee is going to do, it will vote in favour. It has also been said by one of those on the remuneration commission that people are not being paid. So it must mean that it gets taller at least. However, I should like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks it is right that we should be able to sit in the position of minister for about five years. Fifty-three days and then get a huge ministerial endorsement in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135042	That's one of the things I think you should look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135048	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135048-2	One thing is, you have to look at it. Another thing is that you also have to act from there. After all, it is no secret that the SF has been a governing party, and I know it has been the great wish of the Left to have this remuneration commission set up, even when they were in government for an earlier period. But as far as I remember, there was little support for it. And then you can be surprised that the SF and the government are totally supportive of a remuneration commission, completely supportive of the fact that, regardless of what it comes with, you vote in favour. It is strange, and it is not something we see in the Folketing every day when there are commissions with their recommendations that they say: we are just voting in favour of it. Well, that's weird. But I expect that the rapporteur also finds it strange that one can sit as a minister and, after 53 days, score a high level of ministerial approval for 18 months after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135151	I don't think it's strange, because that's the way the rules are. But what we have to discuss when we see the Commission's report is whether this kind of thing and a number of other things are fair, whether they fit in with what conditions are elsewhere and whether they are reasonable in relation to the demands being made, for example. to a minister, but also to members of parliament. That's what we need to look at. In relation to the second point, I think I have answered Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen once.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135224	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135226	Thank you. Well, I'm a little insecure, because why do we have to discuss whether the Commission's recommendations are reasonable? Why should we? The SF, together with the other parties, has decided that no matter what the Commission brings, you vote for it. So why is the rapporteur using such a wording that we will then have to discuss it? I am sure that at least three parties would like to discuss it, but it is totally superfluous what those parties think, because the majority has already deposited their decision-making power with the Commission. So why does the rapporteur say that this is what we have to discuss, i.e. whether it is reasonable? Does this mean that you cannot be sure that the SF will vote for what the Commission recommends?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135317	Well, I've been listening to what, sir. Finn Sørensen and others from the Enhedslisten have said today. They've been calling for a little attitude. And then when you come up with an attitude, you know it's not so good. That's what I understand, sir. Finn Sørensen's question to me. I have come up with some basic positions, but I have said yes to the fact that once we have set up a remuneration commission, I think it takes reasonable consideration, which will also reflect the positions I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135347	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135347-2	Well, we'd love to have some opinions. What you're just going to ask yourself is what to use SF's statements and opinions on when SF has signed in advance that no matter what the commission proposes, SF agrees. Because I guess that's how it's supposed to be understood. The rapporteur is now nodding. He can confirm it one more time. Good. Then it is just that I would like to return to the rapporteur's remark that the brain would not be disconnected when the Commission came up with its proposal. However, would the rapporteur not admit that the rapporteur will have to disconnect his brain, because the rapporteur obviously has some views on how things should be? It is not quite clear what they are, but perhaps some of them are in the direction of the Enhedslisten's proposal, but if they are not reflected in the Commission's proposal, then the rapporteur will have to disconnect his brain. The rapporteur must acknowledge this, unless it already happened when the text of the conciliation was signed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135452	When I used that expression at all, it was to comfort such a man as Mr. Finn Sørensen says that we are actually going into this with full transparency and trusting the people who sit and that they both listen and understand, and that they also understand that we have opinions on this, of course. But we stand by the agreement we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135516	Mrs Pernille Skipper, brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135518	Just to try to sum up, so that I can also follow what the SF rapporteur says, SF says that of course you will not disconnect the brain, the day the Commission comes with its proposal, understood that you are not just going to vote for extremely more favourable conditions than there are already today. It does not matter, the SF's rapporteur then says to my colleague, Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, because it is quite certain that what the Commission comes up with remains after the SF's head, because it is sensible people, it has been said there. I would just like, just to understand it, to sum up that what SF says is that SF is sure that SF doesn't come into a dilemma. SF is sure that even if you have agreed to do what the Commission says, it will not mean that SF will vote for more favourable conditions, but on the contrary, more reasonable conditions for ministers and members of parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135632	I do not know whether I can secure Mrs Pernille Skipper, but I can say that our basic view is based on some of the positions I have expressed here. This is not new, even for Mrs Pernille Skipper. But I cannot finish that discussion here from the platform. That is the substance of this discussion, and I think we have repeated it with many parties because we want to see how that balance is made. And I also believe that Enhedslisten's rapporteur knows that there are a great many different balances involved here: mayor jobs, ministerial jobs, members of parliament, retirement age, etc., and comparability to the rest of society is not a completely simple thing either. I know that myself, for example. was director of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. So comparing it to other parts of society isn't an easy discussion just to say that this isn't just simple talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135735	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135737	I also did not ask whether it was simple talk or complicated talk that I asked whether SF felt safe, as to whether it could be trusted blindly that the Commission's proposal would be some that were in line with the views of the SF today, so that it would be less favourable conditions that would come from the Commission, because that was what Mr. Steen Gade was just expressing himself. And so it is that I would like to ask, when one hears the chairman of the remuneration commission well enough deny that a commission has been set up, but still add that one does not take pay from people: does SF believe that SF will vote for more favourable terms and meet an agreement, and feels SF feels safe in that the commission comes up with some less lucrative terms than are applicable today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135833	At least I think so in some areas, i.e. for example. as regards retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135841	Sir. Christian Juhl, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135842	Thank you. The rapporteur will remember that I had some doubts when Mrs Lone Loklindt spoke about whether this was a package that could be voted 'yes' or 'no', or whether it was possible, what should be called, to moderate it if it was wrong in some areas. What's sir? Steen Gade's perception of the Commission's basis? Is it a finished package that comes, as has been agreed in principle, or is it something where it is said that it is possible to table amendments to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135911	It's a whole package. That is what has been proposed. That is why I have spent so much of my time answering questions about how that balance should be. That is where we are calling for the Commission to make the adjustments to be made: comparability, transparency, as I have also heard from other rapporteurs, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). That is why we have put some people to spend more time on it than just taking a quick debate in the Folketing, where we are just saying that we should now do this. I have been involved in this before, my party has also made some of the proposals, and sometimes it has turned out that all right, then there were some other inappropriate things we had constructed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135954	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424135956	Well, then it's a little difficult. Then you have to vote either for or against, and the SF also has to do so at the time, unless you have said in advance that you will vote in favour. Mrs Lone Loklindt also said that the Folketing should not decide the salary. But isn't it true that you're going to do that anyway? I also heard that she said not alone in the second round, we talked about it, i.e. that the Folketing should not only decide the salary. But it will surely be the Folketing alone which will decide what the conditions of pay and pensions should be after the commission has done its job. Isn't that right? That doesn't push away responsibility. Why not, then, follow the general principle of democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140037	It doesn't push away responsibility. Whoever presses the green button has voted green, and whoever presses the red button has voted red. That's the way it is in the Folketing. If we have said that this is the basis for a rather unusual disposition, it is of course to have an overall view, in order to have an opportunity to get the balance that we must say as Members of Parliament we have not been too good at in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140105	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140117	The Enhedslisten has gifted the Folketing with a cascade of motions for resolutions on the pay and working conditions of politicians. We are only discussing the first four proposals here, but will have the pleasure of discussing the others later this afternoon. In the Liberal Alliance, we basically believe that the Folketing should take responsibility for our own pay and working conditions and that we should be able to decide on them. It may be on the advice of commissions or committees, but of course not in the way that you simply slavishly follow the attitude that is coming, as a number of parties have agreed with the government. We do not believe that the alternative to doing so is a series of resolutions in the Parliamentary Assembly. In fact, we do not believe that the opposition to using a commission should mean that there should be no overall discussion of the situation. This means that, in relation to both these four proposals and the later ones alone, we will vote in favour of the proposals which we ourselves have already expressed sympathy for. The other proposals we will abstain from voting on because we have the view that it should be seen as a whole and that we should find a solution among the parties in this House and like a solution with which we think we can meet the electorate, because if we cannot face the electorate with regard to the solutions for our pay and working conditions, it must be because we have put it in the wrong place. Then the Commission and the fact that you have to follow the Commission Slavically are justified by the fact that these are very complex matters. Therefore, one cannot take a position in the Folketing and one cannot discuss it and make changes etc. We have to wonder, however, because we are, after all, dealing with a number of complex matters. I can admit that it may sometimes be difficult to keep up with every detail, but everything from bank packages to the implementation of directives is still being adopted, and what do I know where we can discuss whether all the details are not anything more complicated than what we have to say here today. However, let me turn to the four motions for resolutions on which the debate is currently taking place. The first is motion for a resolution B 80 on the retirement age of members of parliament. Since the Liberal Alliance has stated in the past that we are in favour of the retirement age of members of parliament being the same as the retirement age, we can vote in favour of this proposal. That is in line with what we have said before. The other three proposals we shall abstain from voting on because we may not have such specific views on the specific details, at least not if we do not see it in a context where we are discussing the overall pay and working conditions. It is to be hoped that most people know that the Liberal Alliance believes that the overall framework for pay, pensions and post-employment must be maintained at the level that it is today. We believe, however, that the amount of pensions and reimbursements should be reduced in order to shift the money to the pay side, so that you get paid while you make an effort, rather than when you do not make an effort. As far as the ministers are concerned, we believe that the most important change that must be made here is that ministers should not be able to accept the endorsement as ministers if they are again to become members of the Folketing. Just because you have temporarily received a higher salary, I do not assume that you are changing your entire private economy in such a way that you have to have an after-treatment. There are, for example: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We do not think that is fair when you just return to the Folketing. As I said, the Liberal Alliance can vote in favour of B 80 and we shall abstain on B 81, 82 and 83.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140554	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140556	Thank you. Thank you for the curious answer to one motion for a resolution. That is something more than most people have been able to do today, so we would like to sign for it. However, I have a small question for precisely understanding the position of the Liberal Alliance. The age of retirement is agreed. It must follow the rest of the population. The reason why you will not vote for the other proposals is because they regulate how much you get in retirement and how quickly you earn it. After mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's opinion and the opinion of the Liberal Alliance should only be regulated if more pay is paid in return. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140644	I would like to say three things. Firstly, it is well understood that we want the retirement age of a member of parliament to be the same as that of a national pension. Secondly, on the subject of profit, as I have read these motions for resolutions, it seems to me that there is a difference between when you start to earn a parliamentary and ministerial pension. We do not agree that there should be a difference between the time frame for starting to earn pensions for members of parliament and ministers. Thirdly, I would like to say that it is true that we believe that there must be a change in pay, pensions and remuneration in the way that we want to take the money from reduced pensions and limited remuneration and put it on the pay side so that it becomes higher, so that we can attract people more from top positions in the private sector and you get your remuneration while you make an effort, rather than when you have finished making an effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140744	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140746	Well, I guess I'd just like to have Mr. Simpson... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll just tells the moony population how much a member of parliament is paid today, i.e. the salary that apparently has to be higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140801	Actually, I don't think the people are moaning. Now I am so lucky, so I have seen Enhedslisten's study by Gallup, which shows that a majority of Liberal Alliance voters agree with me. I am, in fact, very pleased that the Enhedslisten has been kind enough to have a Gallup Survey carried out which shows that what we have been saying for years is actually what the majority of Liberal Alliance voters mean. So I really don't think anyone's moonbing. It may well be that Enhedslisten's voters may be able to do so, but they probably have reason to do so sometimes. I don't know what else to say to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140838	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper, this time as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424140901	Thank you. Thank you to all the parties for taking the debate today. The four motions for resolutions we are dealing with here in the first place are all one way or another about pension conditions. Firstly, as has been outlined, it is a proposal that politicians should not have a more favourable retirement age than the rest of the population, but first get their pension from the age of the population. Secondly, it is a proposal that, in spite of everything, we should have spent two years on the taboo court as minister before we can have access to the very lucrative pension conditions, as opposed to today, when a single year is enough to obtain a life-long pension for taxpayers. Thirdly, it is a proposal that it should take a little longer to earn the very high ministerial pension, but in a way so that ministers are still at the level of well-paid officials. Fourthly, it is a proposal that there should be a limit to how much pension can be scraped together through several political tasks, i.e. that there is a ceiling of 0.5 million. kr. a year. The pensions of ministers and politicians are very lucrative. They are not just at the better end compared to ordinary employees, they are at the very good end. The four proposals of the Enhedslisten are designed to eliminate the most obvious unfairness... you can also call it the top layer of fat, if you like. So it is not something that sends any politician to the poor farm. Recently, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, the Chairman of the Radical Left, proposed raising the retirement age even more than has already happened, as he felt it was economically necessary, as was said. And such statements are insanely easy to make when you sit in the back seat of a minister car with your private driver in front of you, knowing that you can leave at the age of 60 yourself. It was the same politicians who abolished the wages and asked unskilled workers to work even more. Apparently they need a very long retirement, because it is so damned hard to sit on these soft chairs inside Christiansborg before you are picked up and driven home by your private driver, or what? There's a sign of that. I do not understand why politicians should be able to leave before everyone else, and I do not believe that I have had any explanation today, except sea explanations. At the same time, it is understandable that there is great indignation among ordinary people when a single year as a minister can give access to this fat pension there have been quite a lot of ministers during this period of government which has given rise to that discussion and then it will also be earned so quickly that you can be measured with even some of the most expensive officials. Not only that, if you have hit the ceiling as a minister and cannot really pull more out of it, you can supplement the pension with, for example, a pension. EU posts or other political functions. It is in this way, for example, that. former Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior Margrethe Vestager can get more than 1 million. kr. a year in a lifelong pension after she took the trip from the Minister's Office to Brussels. That is where we think there should be a limit to how many tax dollars you should have during your pension. Even Margrethe Vestager, I don't think I can believe that a pension of 1 million. kr. a year is reasonable. It is unfair, it is hypocritical, it is a waste of tax dollars in the view of the Enhedslisten. 110 million kr. If ministers under the current government were to have cost in return and pension it has been calculated in the press. And then it is quite clear to us that when you have such favourable conditions as that, you forget what it's like to work hard with hard physical work and get a budget to hang together and have to find a bus when the rain hits and the bike is punctured. Finally, I would like to point out that I was very pleased with the announcements from the Danish People's Party in particular. There were also some good tactics from the Liberal Alliance, although, overall, it cannot be said that the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance agree. However, I do not give much for those parties who say that it is not in the sense that there should be more favourable conditions, and it may even be thought that some of the conditions could be more reasonable than they are today, but the votes of a remuneration committee have been parked. First of all, I think it is to run away from responsibility. Secondly, if one really does not feel able to take responsibility, one could have written into the mandate that pay, pensions and remuneration should not increase. You haven't done that. That is why I would actually like to bet a round with all the members of the Folketing that the same parties will probably vote to spend more tax dollars on themselves when it comes down to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141446	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141449	Apparently, Mrs Pernille Skipper did not know the pay conditions for members of parliament before she tabled six motions for resolutions, and therefore asked me what a member of parliament is serving. Therefore, I would just like to inform you that from April 2015 it will be 52.073,91 DKK. a month. However, this does not apply to members of the Enhedslisten Parliamentary Group, as far as I am updated. I guess it's something about paying you something to the party, and then you get a lower salary. Can we also find out in dollars and ears what Mrs Pernille Skipper actually receives in her own pay after she has paid her party tax? And is it true what Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr has stated in TV 2/Lorry that he and perhaps other members of the Enhedslistens Parliamentary Group work only about 40 hours a week? And is there a link between the lower wage and the lower wage?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141541	I can start by informing Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll that my question to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll was purely rhetorical, but I didn't get an answer anyway. In addition, it is true that Enhedslisten's members pay a large part of the salary coming from the Danish Parliament in party tax, and this means, as stated in our statutes, that we get what corresponds to an average metal worker's salary in the Copenhagen area, and on top of that the tax-free remuneration which allows us to pay for transport and all sorts of other things of our own pocket. I don't have any records from my colleagues in the parliamentary group. I do not know whether what you are dealing with as Group Chairman of the Liberal Alliance is crossing off when people come and go, but for my part I do not recognize a working week of 40 hours a week.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141642	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141643	I am also quoting directly from something that has been said on TV 2/Lorry, so it is not really because I am going to control someone. I also think it is good that Mrs Pernille Skipper is mentioned, that Enhedslisten therefore believes that they should earn what corresponds to a metal worker's salary, plus a tax-free supplement of DKK 5008,58. a month. So you're still a little more than a metal worker, after all, in that socialism. Then it must go to transport. The other members of parliament are paid metro, buses, trains and planes. Perhaps you don't do that in the Enhedslisten, or what about it? I just think it illustrates the obvious hypocrisy that is in the Enhedslisten. Enhedslisten wants to make it as if people aren't doing anything. When we want to have other working conditions in here, it is because we want people to be paid while they make an effort and not afterwards. The Enhedslisten will, when we hear the speech, show more of a prejudice that nothing is being done because you have an office work, unlike if you have a more practical job. I think it is a pity that such a campaign is being conducted and that we need to spend an afternoon on a campaign from the Enhedslisten. We also saw this in the "Bag Borgen" yesterday, where Emil Nielsen and others were involved. Why isn't it... [Sound emission]?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141805	I think we are taking this discussion very seriously. The Enhedslisten has been fighting for years for some slightly more reasonable conditions for members of parliament and, in particular, ministers who have very, very lucrative conditions. I do not believe that there is any hypocrisy. I have at no time claimed that I am getting a little pay, despite paying one in relation to other parties high party tax on the contrary. It's really nice even. Nor have I and we ever concealed the fact that the Members of Parliament are allowed to keep the tax-free supplement, as well as I am going to correct myself here is not DKK 5,000, but, as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll says 5,008,58 kr. Sorry about that mistake. I'm not trying to make it like you're not doing anything when you're doing office work either. Actually, I think we're doing something in the Enhedslisten. We are making a virtue of working hard, not only for the money we get, but for the mandate we have been given. HKs work very hard, although they are in office, but I think we should have politicians who are here, not because they get high salaries, but because they see it as a calling and they want to fight for a better society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141912	Sir. Kristian Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141915	A large part of Mrs Pernille Skipper's and a large part of the rest of Enhedslisten's arguments here today have gone on the retirement age of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. I should just like to ask whether Mrs Pernille Skipper can provide information on how section 4 of this article is to be found. 1, the law on remuneration and pension for ministers, says.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141937	No, I don't remember that in my head, but I also expect it to be, sir. Kristian Jensen would like to hear. So now I'm gonna get Mr. Simpson. Kristian Jensen allowed to make the great revelation in his follow-up remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141947	Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424141950	I am actually disappointed that Mrs Pernille Skipper does not know. For in 2006, the law was amended so that the retirement age of ministers follows the retirement age according to Article 74 of the Unemployment Insurance Act. This means that it is at the rate of increase in retirement age for early retirement that the retirement age for ministers also increases, i.e. those who have become ministers after 2006 and thus the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior. I therefore believe that the attack on the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, who has not been present today, has been unacceptable because it seems to have been based on the assumption that the retirement age of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior would not increase as the retirement age would rise. It does so in accordance with Section 4, paragraph 4. 1.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142033	I'm sorry to hear about that again, sir. Kristian Jensen, I don't know the paragraphs by heart. I am only pleased that Mr. Kristian Jensen can do it. So it's a great job. I do not think that we have made any mistakes today in any way. After all, the recent changes made for members of parliament meant that those who had been elected before 2007 saw no change in their pension situation. But I would always like to see myself corrected if that is the case and then I would like to discuss it afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142113	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142134	The debate is open. And I give the floor first to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142152	Thank you very much. The draft parliamentary resolution, B-75, concerns the remuneration of ministers, and it is proposed that the current temporary reduction in the ministerial bill of 5%. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government agrees with this, and I believe that a large majority in the Danish Parliament also believes that the current reduction in the ministerial bill should be continued, which is why the government has also tabled not a motion for a resolution, but a genuine legislative proposal that the reduction in the ministerial bill should be extended to the years 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. The reason for the temporary continuation is that, on the basis of an agreement between the Government, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the SF on the implementation of political agreements for a more up-to-date and transparent settlement to politicians, a commission has been set up. And the so-called remuneration commission must analyse the whole area in order to obtain an overall assessment of the payment to this type of politician. The remuneration commission is thus responsible for analysing the overall administration of mayors, regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers. In this analysis, the Commission shall examine all elements of the payment, including remuneration, allowances and pension conditions. In the light of the analysis, the remuneration commission must make recommendations for a simpler and more transparent system which also takes into account the interrelationship between the conditions of the different types of political profession. According to the terms of reference, the work undertaken by the Salaries Commission will be completed by the end of 2015 and only when the recommendations of the Salaries Commission are available will the Government decide how the forward-looking overall payment will be made, inter alia, to: Ministers must be, and therefore the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142401	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, first Mr. Kristian Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142416	I have the same attitude as the Minister for Finance for this motion for a resolution just presented by the Minister for Finance. It is the case that this question too seems to us to be best dealt with in the reduced remuneration committee, and we therefore reject the resolution, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142435	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Pernille Skipper was misprinted, but is now pressing for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142441	I'm sorry. Apparently, this button isn't my friend right now. I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Kristian Jensen just confirms that if you do nothing, the salary of the ministers will rise in relation to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142459	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142501	Mr. Kristian Jensen is quite fair and fine; the ministers simply deserve an increase in wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142507	No, I do not think that the current ministers deserve an increase in wages. Something more and better needs to be done before they deserve it. However, it may well be that they should have the right to do so from a legislative point of view. But listen to me: we in the Left have proposed that a remuneration commission be set up. We are glad that this has been done. The remuneration commission shall make a bid as to what the remuneration shall be for ministers, members of parliament and other full-time politicians. And when they come up with their proposals, we in the Left have indicated that we will choose to implement it, but that it will not enter into force until after a forthcoming parliamentary elections, so that the voters who vote in the forthcoming parliamentary elections will have the opportunity to assess whether those who have voted in favour of the proposal deserve a new vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142558	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142608	With the motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten wishes to give up the possibility of receiving a ministerial pension if you receive remuneration from other political offices or posts. On this proposal, as on the first, I can say that the Socialists are awaiting the remuneration commission and the work that is there. So I have nothing to add in relation to what the Minister for Finance and the rapporteur of the Left have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142632	Mrs Pernille Skipper, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142635	I would like to hear the views of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament on the motion for a resolution we are debating, B 75, which deals with the permanent reduction of the ministerial bill. As Mr. Kristian Jensen, of the Left, confirmed just now that if we do nothing, the salary of the ministers will rise. Do the Socialists think that it is right that ministers' salaries should rise?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142703	I'm sorry I was just a little ahead of you. It's true that it's B 75 that we're going to have before B 84. With B-75, Enhedslisten wants to introduce a lasting reduction of the remuneration of 5%. I believe that the government has also proposed that during this period they should also go down, and then we will see what a future government is doing. I support the desire they have for a continued reduction of 5%.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142734	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142736	In fact, I think that was a very clear speech from the Socialists. It is believed that the 5% reduction that has taken place must be lasting. So can the Socialists vote through this proposal, even if you are waiting for the remuneration commission? After all, Enhedslisten and the government have done so together in previous agreements. We can do that, can't we? If nothing else, we can do so until the remuneration commission comes up with its proposal and the new system is implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142808	There is, of course, a proposal now under discussion to extend the 5% reduction. Whether it is to reach out on the other hand must wait for discussion of what the Com mission of Salaries brings in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142824	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142832	Thank you. Yeah, you get to stand here sometimes today. That's fantastic. This motion for a resolution is about a lasting reduction in the level of ministerial representation by introducing a sustainable reduction in the level of ministerial representation of 5%. The Danish People's Party has previously voted in favour of the 5% reduction, and we are also in favour of this resolution. Precisely when we consider the unequal tax reform adopted by the government with a number of other parties, where transfer income is frozen and affected by those who have the least, we also think it is reasonable to look inwards. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142908	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424142928	With the motion for a resolution, B-75, the Enhedslisten wants to introduce a permanent reduction in the level of ministers. As a result, we have recently considered the government's bill to continue the 5-percent reduction of ministerial fees introduced under the recovery package in 2010 and continued by the government when it came into office. The extension now runs until 2019, but not until 2019, because we expect to have a permanent agreement on a more up-to-date and transparent system of pay, or remuneration, for all full-time politicians based on the remuneration commission's recommendations. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143021	Mrs Pernille Skipper, brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143023	Thank you. I would like to ask a little about the stringency of the argument here, because just now the radical rapporteur spent a lot of time talking about how to wait for the Commission, but after all a 5% reduction has been extended. Until 2019. In other words, the Radicals will be willing to make other adjustments on a temporary basis until the new system, which comes out of the payroll commission's work, is in place, for example. a higher retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143107	We want to see it as a whole. The reason why the temporary reduction runs until 2019 and not 2020 or 2018 has something to do with the fact that it has to be adopted by the upcoming Parliament, probably what the remuneration commission recommends, and therefore there is time to have another newly elected assembly put into the new rules. That is the point of the non-retroactivity of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143143	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143145	Yes, but my question was more about whether you could imagine other temporary solutions up to 2019, i.e. for example. a higher retirement age. Now the Radicals are saying that they want the retirement age for ordinary people to increase, the same must happen for politicians. Could it then be imagined that if it happens by 2019 that the retirement age increases for ordinary people, if there is a majority in this House that will do so, then at least a temporary increase in the retirement age of politicians could be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143221	We believe that it is time to look at the overall remuneration of all politicians, including their pension conditions. Here we just do not think that there is any need to make more simple solutions. Enhedslisten constantly proposes individual things. That's a 5% reduction. It is, after all, a matter of continuing a system that was already in place, which is not to introduce anything new during a temporary period. This is an arrangement that we are simply continuing temporarily. So, of course, we want a comprehensive solution because we think it is important that that solution reflects as much remuneration as pensions, retirement age, etc. at the same time for all full-time politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143313	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143321	Thank you. The proposal is in some way a little in conjunction with the other proposals. I could also hear Mrs Pernille Skipper's comments on another proposal. Let me say to the Enhedslisten that I really think they should be quite happy that there has been this reduction for so long. It is our view that it was a good decision, especially in the light of the economic narrowneck that has been among other people, for a signal was given by people who receive a high salary paid by the public. I thought that was a good signal. Of course, as in the other areas, we will wait until we see how the balance is when it comes from the remuneration commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143415	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143434	Then we are in a more classic Enhedslisten proposal and, as it were, of the best drawer, one that has to tease a little and expose the hypocrisy. Now the temporary reduction has been made, which we have also voted in favour of, and otherwise it has been parked over in the Commission. This is what a large majority of the Danish Parliament has proposed. In this case, you make sure, like saying that it is firm, that we do so until some others decide otherwise. That is what Enhedslisten's proposal is about. That is what we in the Liberal Alliance think is fine, and that is why we can support the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten. That's all there is to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143523	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143549	The recovery package in 2010 included: The unemployment benefit period was halved for people affected by unemployment and it was made more difficult to get back into the benefit system if you had first gone out. It has hit thousands and thousands of people. We have discussed this a great deal, and we are not going to discuss it today. But what also happened was that ministers' salaries were temporarily reduced by 5%, but that was only temporary, and it shows how symbolic it might be. The government and the Enhedslist have since extended this, but we want to do so permanently with this resolution. Thank you to the Danish People's Party and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for your support. At another point, I must get an explanation of where it came from. But you always have to be happy when things go better than you thought. We think it is perfectly reasonable that it is not a temporary decline and that it is not just a small symbolic act, but a permanent decrease of 5%, although one could discuss whether it should be a little more. However, we have seen again, unfortunately, that several parties are hiding behind this pay committee, where they have also parked their votes. We must then just hope and bet that those members of the Commission who, by the way, have a background which is strikingly similar to those of others who sit in this Parliament will come to the conclusion that there must be a little less lucrative conditions for ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143747	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143803	I give the floor first to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424143817	Thank you very much. The draft parliamentary resolution, B 84, aims to eliminate the possibility of obtaining a ministerial pension if the former minister receives remuneration, remuneration or reimbursement from the European Parliament, the Folketing, a region, a municipality or a politically appointed office in international organizations. The government agrees that the time is ripe to look at the overall execution of mayors, regional council presidents, MPs and ministers, and that is also why, on the basis of an agreement between the government, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the SF, an agreement has been set up to implement political agreements on more up-to-date and transparent administration to politicians. As I have said, a few times here today, the remuneration commission has to analyse the whole area in order to obtain an overall assessment of the payment to these politicians. The remuneration commission is thus responsible for analysing the overall payment of mayors, regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers, and in that analysis the remuneration commission is to look at all elements of the payment, including remuneration, remuneration and pension ratios. In the light of this analysis, the remuneration commission must then make recommendations for a simpler and more transparent system which also takes account of the interrelationship between the conditions of the different types of political profession. According to the terms of reference, the work undertaken by the Pay Commission will be completed by the end of 2015 and the government will await the recommendations of the Commission before deciding on the future overall payment. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144006	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144009	I would like to see a position lured out of the Minister of Finance today just a little bit of an attitude. Do the Socialists think that it is reasonable that you can both withdraw your ministerial pension and a possible remuneration from the Danish Parliament, or do the Socialists think that you should save your pension until you retire?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144036	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144037	I am, of course, full of opinions, and my position on this point is that I have actually been involved in a broad political agreement which ensures that we look at how these conditions can be modernised. When we talk about attitudes, I think it is quite illustrative of the difficulty of understanding the conditions that exist in this area, that I personally do not know exactly how Enhedslisten actually practices the conditions that apply to pensions for Members of Enhedslisten. I understand that Enhedslisten's members have chosen a different approach to pay than the rest of the members of the Folketing in terms of the actual salary paid on a regular basis, but is that practice also applicable to pension conditions? I am not really aware of this, and if that is not the case, it could perhaps be quite illustrative that such simplification and a clearer indication of the conditions under which we actually live as politicians would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144126	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144128	If that were not the case, it might be quite illustrative, but it is so that it could be illustrative, but it is not. The Minister of Finance is full of opinions. It could be that there was an attitude as to whether it was okay to raise wages and pensions at the same time, i.e. to get your minister's pension, which is, moreover, pretty high, while at the same time getting it nicely high as a member of parliament. So I am just going to try again: do the Socialists have a position on this, or is that attitude also parked at the Pay Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144212	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144213	As I have said, I am full of opinions and even, I think, quite prepared to make my views come true in a great many contexts, including in this context with a Commission. I think it might be worth clarifying, even for the public, how it works exactly with members of Enhedslisten's pension relationship when comparing them with a common Copenhagen metal worker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144235	Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144238	I do not think we have heard much about the Finance Minister's own position. I would really like to hear the Minister for Finance, in relation to whether the Socialists have always thought it an advantage that a remuneration commission was set up to look at this or whether it is because you are now sitting in a government and then, like, putting away the responsibility, it is others who have to look at this, rather than looking inside and looking at what you could do differently yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144308	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144310	No, it is the case that we in my party only enter into political agreements when we conclude political agreements. And what has happened in this context is that we have actually reached a very broad political agreement on this issue, which I think is very favourable, because we can then have a modernisation of these conditions. It is also true in relation to the Danish People's Party that I think, also on this point, that the issue of attitudes and principles is interesting. In other words, we must admit to the authors of the Enhedsliste that they are there practicing the policy in relation to their own members of the Folketing, which they are proposing should apply. But I would really like to get some information as to whether this is also the case for the Danish People's Party. Is it not the case that members of the Danish Parliament from the Danish People's Party receive wages and pensions under precisely the conditions that are so strongly criticized here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144356	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144359	We have no ministers in the Danish People's Party. But it may well be that the Minister of Finance thinks we should be offered a ministerial seat. Well, then, I think the Minister of Finance should call Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, for then they could discuss it. What I am asking is, in fact, what the Minister for Finance has done in the past to pay commissions. Because I just think that I have read in the past somewhere, that it did not seem good at the time when the Left proposed it. Maybe I'm completely wrong. It may be that the Minister can give us some information about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144437	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144439	In other words, our debate alone illustrates that the questioner is a member of the Folketing. So are all other members of the Danish People's Party, which is why you receive a pension and you have privileges. You will receive compensation in accordance with the rules applicable to members of parliament. Today we have supported a revision of those rules on the basis of proposals from the Enhedslisten, but, as far as I am aware, you yourself benefit from the rules that you apparently want to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144508	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, first Mr. Kristian Jensen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144523	If someone has sat at home on the television screens and followed the debate here, I would like to start with a service information: this is not a reprint. But it will sound like something I said a few minutes ago. I think the Minister for Finance has clearly explained the substance of the proposal. We in the Left are very pleased that a remuneration commission has been set up. And I would say in brackets to the Danish People's Party: we are also pleased that some who were previously opposed to it are now in favour of it. Parentes out. However, precisely because we have set up a remuneration committee, the question of the possibility of receiving remuneration and ministerial pensions must also be discussed at the same time in the whole of what it is. The individual elements of our remuneration constitute to me, as previously described, a mosaic, and if you start to change the mosaic, you have to take it in a whole instead of just picking single elements out of such mosaic and trying to change it from there. We will have that overall assessment precisely through the Pay Commission, which is why I look forward to having it completed its work. We cannot therefore support the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they do not support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144633	I can tell you that the re-mission continues, as Mrs Pernille Skipper also has a question in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144639	I'm trying to see if I couldn't come up with a new question. Then it could be that I could also get a new answer. That would be nice. It is the case that there are a number of members of the Left who are members of parliament and who get the salary you get as a member of parliament and that is, I think, in the good end, most people would say. At the same time as they receive that remuneration from the Folketing, they also raise a nasty ministerial pension because they have previously been ministers. That applies to six members of the Left. Mr. Kristian Jensen, it is fair to raise both your salary and your pension at the same time, or should you wait to withdraw your pension until you have actually retired?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144735	If Mrs Pernille Skipper had asked a new question, Mrs Pernille Skipper would have been given a new answer. However, when Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen asked a similar question when we co-examined the first proposals under item 5-8, Mrs Pernille Skipper gets the same answer that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen received earlier this day, namely the answer that in the present system there are many things in which one can wonder individually why it has just happened. But the various parts of the system of payment, pension scheme, income rights, etc. that we have, have now been put together in order for the whole to be a fair cover-up of what it is for work and a responsibility that lies in being a member of parliament, mayor and minister respectively. That is why I do not want to go in and say at this stage that individual elements must be pulled out and changed, despite the fact that I would like to admit that there are elements that seem very strange individually.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144833	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144839	However, I would like to point out that since I have not asked the question, it is a new question for me. After all, it is not even though Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen and I are really, really good friends so that we decide what each other says. Now Mr. Kristian Jensen, that one recognizes in the Left that there are some things that are a little strange and that it is a little difficult to see why it has just happened that way. I think that was the expression. And that also implies that perhaps it is not possible to raise both wages and ministerial pensions at the same time, at least not if we were forced to take a position on this now. Should the members of the Left who then receive it refrain from having both? Would that be a little more honest?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424144931	I was aware that it was not Mrs Pernille Skipper, but Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen who asked the question. But if you listened to what each other asked, you might not have asked the same question again. And since I'm the same, it was the same answer that came. In relation to what Mrs Pernille Skipper asked about now, it is the case that the rules after which a minister's pension has been earned are now the rules that were in force at that time. And that is why I believe that we must live in the future with the rules that exist, including the fact that I think it is quite reasonable that we should receive the benefits that the rules now provide for until a new system is introduced in this area. That is why I do not want to interfere in how people comply with the current rules, as long as they comply with the rules and receive no more than what they have been allowed to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145023	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145029	Thank you. It is then once again on behalf of Leif Lahn Jensen that I am speaking, and that is B 84, about which I also came to say something a moment ago, but we have now reached B 84. It does not alter the fact that we cannot support the proposal to abolish the system that exists today, but we would like to look at a new system as an overall system. There is, of course, some criticism of this, as the rapporteur of the Left also said. And when we want to look at a new system, it is also because we want to break up with the existing system, and that is probably some of the closest we can get to landing on when it comes to what it is that is our party's position. It is, of course, a dispute with the existing system since we have asked others to come up with something for a new regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145123	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. No questioner has come forward, and then it is the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145132	Thank you. As a small service to our Finance Minister, I would like to say that according to the electoral law, the members of the Folketing are obliged to receive the basic salary and the cost supplement, and how to fit into the various parties in terms of a party tax, it must be up to the parties to adopt. However, this motion for a resolution is about requiring the government to put forward a legislative proposal abolishing the possibility of receiving a ministerial pension if, at the same time, the European Parliament, the Folketing, a region, a municipality or from politically appointed positions in international organisations receive remuneration or reimbursement. The proposal is to ensure that no politician receives pay and pensions at the same time. With the current rules on ministerial pensions, it is possible for former ministers who are still receiving remuneration or reimbursement and who have reached retirement age to receive ministerial pensions. In the Danish People's Party we welcome the debate and we also believe that politicians should want to save the nation and do the best for the people. And if you're focused on the fact that we're gonna have to get extra high salaries and things like that, then you might have to find something else to do. We want to help look at how to set up a system that is more transparent and fair. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145324	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145341	In line with the treatment that we have had in the past today on politicians' pensions, parliamentary pensions and ministerial pensions, I would like to maintain that the Radical Left believes that the time is ripe to look at the overall remuneration of all politicians, including their pension conditions, but that we also have a principle that we want to avoid a situation in which politicians have to decide their own salaries and pensions. Today we have had a debate which shows how complicated it is in fact to get an overview of how the various schemes affect remuneration and pensions and the interaction, but that is precisely why we want to have the overall view. That is why we have set up an independent commission to decide on the issue of a ceiling, that is, whether there should be a ceiling on receiving both remuneration and ministerial pension, and what should be the level of remuneration, and what should be the retirement age? And we intend to follow the recommendations of the Commission because we do not want to negotiate wages and pensions with ourselves. However, we have also sent out clear signals about the retirement age, which is why the Radical Left cannot support the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145504	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145508	Now I do not think that we in the Enhedslisten have made a very complicated proposal. It is actually very simple: as a former minister, you must not be able to obtain both your ministerial pension and any remuneration from Parliament or any other political office. So I'm having a little trouble seeing what it is you're missing an overview of in this exact context. Could Mrs Lone Loklindt imagine that there was a situation in which the Radical Left would think it was a good idea to continue the possibility of double payment of public taxes? So that the Commission could simply come up with a proposal on which the Radicals would think: that is a good idea, let us stick to the rule that you can both get a pension and a remuneration at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145603	I can't really do that. I think there's been a lot of reasonableness. Now to return to some discussions that we have had in the past, about a reduction in the level of ministers, etc., it is when I say that it is complicated, of course not this issue that I have sympathy with in many ways, but it is more that we want to have an overview because things are playing together. Therefore, it does not make sense for us to make a single solution here, as Enhedslisten proposes. We will await the Commission, which is an independent Commission, which we have set up to have a more simple, transparent system. In this, there will also be a focus on interplay and levels of remuneration and retirement age at all. That is why we await the recommendations of the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145703	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145706	Frankly, I find it a little difficult to get a head and a tail in what you mean. On the one hand, it is true that you can receive double payments from the Danish Parliament, both pension and remuneration, together with all the other matters, but on the other hand, radically, you cannot imagine a proposal where it would be reasonable to maintain it. In this way, I find it rather difficult to see why it is playing with the other parts of the salary and pension conditions of ministers. I have to admit that. So just one more time for Prince Canute: does this mean that the Radicals will vote in favour of the proposal if the Commission's proposal is to maintain the system in which both pensions and remuneration can be obtained?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145759	As I said earlier, we have asked a Commission to look at the overall picture, and it is the overall view that will determine what future wages, including ceilings, should look like. That is why we do not want to go in and make a single solution here today. That is why we will not support the Enhedslisten's proposal. We want to look at it all together so that there can be an overview, and so that there can also be simplicity in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145837	Thank you. I suggest we keep Prince Canute outside and in return give the floor to Mr. Knud. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424145846	There is full agreement with the President, if that is allowed. As far as the SF is concerned, I would like to repeat a little what I have said before. In fact, I think that the very problem that lies in this proposal is one of those areas in which, when you look at it, you can see some things. Now I have been with a few years, when things have been very, very unreasonable and still seem strange sometimes. That is why I would like to quote something from the terms of reference of the remuneration commission. It states that the analysis must cover all elements of the payment, including compensation, cost supplements, reimbursement, pensions, set-off rules, coordination rules, training funds and the ongoing adjustment of remunerations. Then they will even have to deal with it in conjunction with other different tasks. I'm just reading it up to show that this is part of a whole range of other issues. There is also some time shift, and the Danish Parliament has repaired the rules in a better direction over the years. I hope that comes out of it too. But there are many things that need to be looked for, and we need simplification and simplification so that people can understand it outside this house. This is one of the things I look forward to when we get the results from the Salaries Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150029	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150032	I could almost understand from SF's rapporteur that this is not a rule that completely falls into SF's taste either. Even as I know SF, this is not something that falls into SF's taste, and it is meant as a general praise to the party. But now the SF has been in government, so there will of course be members of the SF who will soon, if re-elected, be able to receive remuneration from the Folketing and ministerial pension at the same time. Mr. Steen Gade, that you should renounce it, or that it is quite reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150116	I will leave it to those who are in the electoral situation, but generally speaking I believe that we should be allowed to receive the money we have the right to receive. If we have to, we can say, conduct politics in this way, then we will not get very far. What is needed, on the other hand, is clear rules that apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150138	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150141	Of course you have the right to have what you are entitled to. There is no doubt about that. However, some of what we sometimes talk about when we talk about being good and proper politicians who are credible in our duties is also that we sweep our own doorsteps as far as our positions are concerned. So maybe you should do it in this case as a member of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150208	I'm not in that situation myself, but I wouldn't recommend it. On the other hand, I would recommend that the remuneration commission make a proposal that clears up this point, and that is what I expect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150223	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150243	It will be a challenge if I use all the speaking time, but this proposal is in many ways a proposal that falls to the liking of the Liberal Alliance. We think that there is a great deal of justification in the proposal, but it does of course give some thought to whether it is to some extent expropriation if it is people who have certain pensions in advance. At least that's what I can almost imagine the Justice Department's law office would come up with if you asked them. At least that is what they come up with when you ask if you can make similar changes for example. early retirement workers backwards if the Dutch and Swedish models were to turn the pile of early retirement workers to ensure that those who were no longer really ill could no longer receive early retirement. So, of course, we have the same principle when it comes to early retirement and ministers who are retired. I hope that will also apply to the Enhedslisten in the future, so that it is also believed that it will not be expropriation to deprive what has been given in advance to early retirementists. I think it would be good if we could have that discussion, because then things would be more reasonable. It would fall more into our taste, it would be okay. But it may be that you can get an answer to it now, so that it is not a principle that applies by chance. At least we have the same principles, no matter what kind of pensioners we are discussing. But of course we are voting in favour of this proposal because we have precisely the same principles for the different types of pensions and pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150433	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150435	It's an honest question of where Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll in the proposal considers that this should apply to people who are already receiving a pension. Of course, the Enhedslisten does not propose to change the rules for people who are
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150501	No, but it's kind of the same problem we had when we changed the rules for members of parliament compared to this change in retirement age. Perhaps it was before the rapporteur was elected, but we did have that problem during the last parliamentary term. And that was where the Liberal Alliance thought it was possible to go further backwards, in relation to when you had saved up, to change things, and there we were told that it would be expropriation in relation to the pensions issue. And it must surely be the same here, if you do the same, just for others, even if they have not started to get a pension yet. Neither were those people we were discussing at the time. So I guess it's even, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150547	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150549	The Enhedslisten also believes that the members of parliament, the ministers who have not yet retired, can change the pension conditions of the country as long as they have not yet retired. Frankly, I do not think I can look at the threads of some other people who are ill and for that reason cannot be on the labour market. But I'm sure that sir... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll gladly will enlighten me once again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150626	Yeah. First of all, I would like to say that I did not talk about people who are sick. It is very important for me to say that the Liberal Alliance will never fail sick people. But it is the case that in other European countries early retirement proceedings have been carried out to see if people still meet the requirements of early retirement, that is to say they are still ill. Of course, those who then turn out to be sick still have to receive early retirement, while those who are not sick no longer have to take early retirement, since it has to be reserved for those who are actually ill. What is the question here is whether Enhedslisten will move into the area that the Ministry of Justice assesses is expropriation in relation to pensions, or will Enhedslisten not move into that area? The Enhedslisten will do so as long as it applies to members of parliament and ministers. So does the Liberal Alliance, and we're in. But I don't understand how it can be that Enhedslisten thinks that it will be very dangerous when it comes to other groups on which the Ministry of Justice assesses the same thing. We think that we should be more hesitant about that assessment and instead say that those who need help need help need help while the others have to work. This applies both to members of parliament and to non-citizens, just as it does to the question of retirement age. Just too straight. I thought Enhedslisten meant that until we came to the sixth proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150758	Then Mrs Pernille Skipper has the opportunity to conclude as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424150815	Then we have the final proposal today, which has all been about the favourable conditions that ministers have in one way or another. This is about the fact that the ministers who have earned the right to a very lucrative minister's pension can receive it once they have reached retirement age, even if they are paid, that is. remuneration, as a member of parliament or, for example, as a member of parliament; as the mayor of the City of Copenhagen, just to take a thought example, or as a Member of the European Parliament. Just to make it clear: they get their really, really good salary, and at the same time they get their pension paid, and that is a bit mysterious because they have not yet retired. Right now there is a mayor in the City of Copenhagen, as is the case, and there is also an MEP from Conservatives who receives both salaries from the European Parliament and ministerial pensions as a former minister; of the members of parliament, it is six members of the Left, a single member of the Conservative People's Party and then a member of the Alternative. There are also a couple of former ministers who will soon stop getting their post-employment benefits from ministerial time and start to be able to retire while working as members of parliament and receiving their salaries for it. I have read out that a man like Anders Fogh Rasmussen is actually an example of someone who nevertheless thought it was a little too much; although he had the right to receive the pension, he resigned while he was NATO Secretary-General. And that is what our proposal is all about today; it is in all its simplicity that we cannot have both at once, and we think that is quite reasonable. I find it incredibly difficult to imagine what the argument for maintaining this rule should really be, and that is also why there is something with retroactivity and commission and all sorts of other things flying through the air here. But frankly, I do not think that anyone else in here can really defend that rule, except, of course, that you want to wait for this commission, which you can then get to make decisions for yourself, and if it is unpopular decisions, you can always hold the Commission in a stretched arm and say: it was also their fault, it was not I who did it at all. I think that's really, really bad. I think this should be taken and voted through. And then I think that what Anders Fogh Rasmussen has done is true. It's not everything he's done I respect. On the contrary. But I think it is only something that can be respected for someone to say: after all, I do not need pay from two places, especially when they are as high as they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151138	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151142	I have one brief comment to make, and I regret to the President if my question is a little off in relation to which of the motions for resolutions it should be about. But it is because we have discussed this in the past with pay and pensions. There we also touched on the fact that Enhedslisten's members are making sure that their parliamentary representation, while they are here, comes down to a metal worker's salary in Copenhagen. And now that we were discussing pensions, did I just think that when Enhedslisten's MPs later become pensioners, they also pay down so that they only receive a pension equivalent to that of a metal worker in Copenhagen, or do they actually receive the lucrative parliamentary pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151226	They're receiving the parliamentary pension they've earned. As far as I remember, one does not pay party taxes on it, but if we talk about this proposal, it is, as the Minister of Finance asked me earlier, so that, of course, in the Enhedslisten, you do not get your MP's pension if you are still on the labour market and get a salary, then you pay it in party tax. That is why Mrs Jette Gottlieb is one of the largest private party supporters that Enhedslisten can count on her party accounts. It's for the same reason. Yeah, I think that was the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151301	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151303	That was actually an interesting answer because I understood that others who received something they were entitled to, but a little broke their principles. It's not someone from my own party, because we don't have any former ministers... were such a bit hypocrites and such things. But here Enhedslisten has a principle that when you are in the Folketing, you have to be on the same level as a metal worker in Copenhagen, but when you become a pensioner, you obviously have to be on a par with a member of parliament. This is quite funny, because it is actually the case that the pension for members of parliament is disproportionate, even in relation to the remuneration paid to members of parliament. So it is not only hypocrisy, it is actually hypocrisy with screws that we get into, because not only do we divide it up, in relation to whether you work or whether you are a pensioner, but we also receive where you do not do it any less, it is where it is most advantageous for you. I think that was nice to clarify and to conclude the debate we have had today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151359	Oh, there was something there in the line of reasoning that I missed, so I'm sorry if I answer a little bit wrong. Well, now we are discussing the pension situation of ministers today. I never believe that I, or anyone else in the Enhedslisten, have claimed that the pension conditions of members of parliament are not lucrative. By the way, we also think that our own pay conditions are quite right, even if we pay a great deal of party tax and receive quite a lot less in salary than the other members of parliament do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151435	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150424151452	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held on Tuesday, 28 April 2015, at 1 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda on the Danish Parliament's website and will also refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
