ParlaMint-DK_20150320100023	The meeting is open. I hope the Secretary of State will be present in a few seconds. Today there is the following review: Peter Skaarup (DF) and Martin Henriksen (DF): Hasteforskning nr. F 29 (On the anti-radicalisation programme of criminal services and initiatives to avoid radicalisation of prisoners). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Hopefully, I'll take a very short break.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320100129	I now see the Minister for Foreign Affairs present in the Folketing. It would have been good if it had been a minute earlier. The debate is open. It's the Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320100154	I am very sorry, President-in-Office, that I had simply been wrong in my calendar, and that is entirely my fault. So it was lucky I was here. But first of all, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the possibility of a Foreign Affairs Commission. After all, the Socialist People's Party has put forward proposals to set up a Foreign Affairs Commission to analyse the new challenges for Danish foreign and security policy in the coming years and how Danish interests can best be addressed in this context, and on the one hand to define the core tasks of the External Action Service and to propose an organisational strengthening of the External Action Service so that the tasks can be done in the best way possible. Let me start by saying that I, as Foreign Minister, always welcome a debate on our foreign policy, and I take the motion for a resolution from the SF as an expression of a sincere interest in Denmark's foreign policy and the well-being of the External Action Service as such. Our foreign policy is precisely about defending Denmark's interests, and I fully agree with the authors of the motion. It is my approach that through our foreign policy we must strive to constantly expand our political and economic space so that we can develop the society we want at home. At the same time, it is an essential part of our foreign policy concern that, by being aware of our global responsibility, we can create a better world, not just for us, but for everyone. In short, we need to use foreign policy to strengthen our own security, our prosperity and also to promote our values. That is basically what foreign policy is all about, and that is the role that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is set to play, well to note very much in cooperation with other authorities, companies and civil society organisations. When we talk about our foreign policy concern, it is clear that although the overall objectives are constant, the framework in which we have to maneuver is rare. It is therefore crucial that in our foreign policy we are able to constantly take stock of the changes in our world. There can be no doubt that the world is changing when we look back on the year that has passed. 2014 was probably together with 2001, I am thinking here of 9/11, and 2008, Lehman Brothers and the Georgian crisis, the most landmark year of foreign policy in this millennium. We had the advance of ISIL with unprecedented brutality and their ability to mobilise resources. We had the crisis in Ukraine, which started with the demonstrations at Maidan Square and then led to Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and continued involvement in destabilising the whole of eastern Ukraine. And we had the humanitarian crisis in West Africa, as a result of Ebola's ravages in countries with already fragile health systems. In addition, we have had to deal with well-known challenges and conflicts. I am thinking, in particular, of the Middle East peace process, which was once again on the agenda with the bloody clashes of the summer in Gaza, but I am also thinking of the aftermath of the economic crisis in Europe and the difficulties of the free trade agenda in the WTO. At the same time, we must not forget the more fundamental changes we are witnessing in these years. Over the next 20 years, the world economy will double, millions of people will work their way out of extreme poverty, and the global middle class will grow by 3 billion people. Growth will continue to shift global economic and political power structures, increase the pressure on the natural resources of the planet and intensify the challenges of global warming. At the same time, we will see that the national state as a framework for the organisation of a society is being challenged and that new non-state actors will play an increasingly important role. Long-term trends are not new. The outlines of a new world order began as early as 1989, when the bipolar world order with the fall of the Wall was replaced by a more multipolar world order. From being two rival superpowers, new regional powers, new non-state actors and new conflicts were opened up. Developments have really speeded up over the last 10-15 years with the globalisation of our society, which is characterised by increased political and economic interdependence, that is to say dependence. All of this has helped create new expectations among citizens and businesses about what foreign policy is to be used for, but also about what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to deliver. It can be said that there is no shortage of trends and developments to take stock of, and that is why changing governments and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over the last ten years have been very concerned about following and analysing the long-term trends in the foreign policy framework, and it has had the consequence that we have continually adapted to the new conditions, both in terms of political priorities and in terms of the organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After a long period of organizational standstill following the major changes on top of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in 1989, the pace of reform over the last 10 years has again been high. In 2006, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented a major report on globalisation, which was aimed precisely at Denmark's acceptance of interests under the new framework conditions. One of the concrete results of the globalisation report was the establishment of a 24-7 centre in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was to act as a common entry point for Danes all over the world who urgently needed help. Also so-called public diplomacy, that is, what one can call the marketing of Denmark and Danish interests through diplomatic means, gained a new and more independent profile as a result of the globalisation report. In 2008 a number of so-called globalisation agents were appointed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to follow up the report's recommendations and present a number of new proposals for organisational adjustments. This led, among other things, to an increase in the number of young people in the Community. to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ended its pillar organisation in 2009 and instead got a number of departments or centres to strengthen the possibilities of thinking the different policy areas together. Finally, in 2014, following a process in which politicians, interest organisations, the research world and the social partners were consulted, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carried out the largest reform of its representation structure for many years. Precisely to take stock of the political and economic shifts towards the east, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs closed a number of embassies in Europe and opened up instead in Asia, Africa and Latin America. These ongoing organisational adjustments have been accompanied by a number of analyses. In 2008, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs produced a vision paper •Kurss • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Government cooperation, supported by growth advisors at selected embassies and taking place in cooperation with other ministries, was highlighted here as one of the new essential tools for promoting Denmark's overall foreign policy interests. Let me also mention that the adjustments have, of course, been made to a large extent in the field of the Export Council. In the year 2000, we established a single export promotion structure in Denmark, which brought together state export promotion efforts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this context, we have continuously adapted our efforts and resources in relation to those parts of the world where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can make the biggest difference for Danish companies. Last year, the government launched a strategy for export promotion and economic diplomacy with 40 concrete initiatives to support Danish companies in global markets. Against this background, it is not wrong to say that, both in terms of political priorities and in terms of the organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have actually dealt with developments in the world around us. In fact, over the last ten years, we have made adjustments to our foreign policy and to our internal affairs within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been at least as great, if not greater, than the changes that followed from the Committee on Foreign Affairs in 1989. However, having said all this, we must also recognise that there are still challenges for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are constantly working to strengthen our contribution to growth and employment in Denmark, as we saw last month when we were able to unveil 3 years of targeted work in our strengthened Invest in Denmark to get Apple to Foulum at Viborg. And we are working with the challenge of maintaining skilled employees and ensuring mobility, especially because new family patterns make it difficult for employees to spend a large part of their working life abroad. We must also stand by the fact that the money will be reduced. It is no secret that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' appropriations, as in other parts of the central administration, are falling. I mention the challenges, not because someone should feel pity for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but because it would be naive to pretend that we should not also adapt to the new conditions in the short term. Not least that is why it is the lead in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that reforms are a constant, if I may say so. The Foreign Commission in 1989 gave a very full picture of the state of the world and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the late 1980s, but it was a snapshot. That is why the changes that then followed have not been left alone on the contrary. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we are very aware that change power and ability to change are the basic conditions for our organisation and for our employees, but we are not alone in Denmark about these challenges. When I and my colleagues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs talk to colleagues in other countries, it is clear that these are the same challenges they face. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in other countries is also considering how to deal with the new long-term trends, and they are also challenged in terms of resources. The positive thing in this context is that we have actually gone further in adapting to some of the key challenges than so many others. The reform of representation, the focus on regulatory cooperation and economic diplomacy are concrete examples of the fact that we have already come a long way. So are we when it comes to so-called co-location. The new embassies will open in Nigeria, Colombia and Myanmar in 2014 and share rooms with Switzerland, the Netherlands and the other Nordic countries. This is a trend that will be reinforced in the years to come, and there is already a lot on the palette. I will conclude by repeating my main message: an ongoing adaptation of our foreign policy and the organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not only necessary, but also inevitable if we are to ensure Denmark's foreign policy interest in the best possible way, which is why we have also been in full swing over the last 10 years with ongoing changes by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The establishment of a 24-7 Citizen Service Centre, the launch of public diplomacy, the abolition of the pillar structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the reform of our representation structure through the involvement of interested stakeholders and regulatory cooperation are examples of how we have constantly taken stock of the changes in the foreign policy framework. Now we are again faced with a year which has brought significant new challenges to Denmark's foreign policy response. 2014 was not a year that changed the long-term trends we have witnessed for some years now. 2014 does not change the overall structural development of the world in my opinion, but there is no doubt that in the field of security policy 2014 will remain as a landmark year, and therefore it makes good sense to stop and analyse that development. I therefore agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. We need to look at the importance of the Ukraine crisis and the violent extremism for which ISIL is exponent, and this requires, as the SF points out, a deeper analytical spade and a thorough foreign policy debate here in the Folketing. But instead of setting in motion a mastodon of a time-consuming and expensive Foreign Commission, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Ministry of Defence, will prepare a thorough security policy analysis which we will be able to present in a relevant parliamentary committee before the summer break. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal to set up a new Foreign Affairs Commission as proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320101412	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Then it's mr. Søren Pind as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320101438	This is an important discussion put on the agenda by the former Foreign Minister. There is no doubt that you look at both the situation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the surroundings around Denmark, there is a need for us to have an overall discussion of the situation. It is therefore difficult for us to say anything other than that we have sympathy for the proposal. We have that for many reasons. One of the reasons could be that the Left has been saying for three years that a Foreign Affairs Commission could be a good idea. I might as well say that as it is, we do. In relation to the situation surrounding Russia and Ukraine, the numerous overflights that are taking place, the serious situation that we see developing, there is a need for a new vision, all that Syria has thrown away, the flow of refugees, the change in the situation of terror, which has become far more serious than any of us could have imagined. Yes, there is indeed a need for an in-depth political view on that side of the matter. Then there's the organization in relation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Sometimes you have the impression that other parts of the government apparatus just as well think you could set up a call center in Mumbai, and then things were done with it. It is clear that this is a point of view which needs to be addressed and must also be tackled strongly and objectively and in cash, because there are a large number of people who are doing a great deal of work out there as well as at home for Denmark. We also owe them the respect that it is to ensure proper working conditions. Among other things: For this reason, in the financial proposals we have presented, the Left has allocated 70 million. kr. to correct the savings made by the previous government in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is a need for us to strengthen the External Action Service and there is a need for this Parliament together to find out how to secure it in a globalised world that presents new challenges every day. That then brings me to the question of why we still hesitate. Should you blame SF for the fact that when SF stepped out of the government, you suddenly thought it was a good idea to have a Foreign Affairs Commission? I don't really think so. There's nothing wrong with getting smarter. It is to be blamed for the fact that the government is responding to this by accepting, among other things: a wish that the Left has also had, namely a thorough security policy analysis of Denmark's situation? No, we're glad we'd like to sign for that. But the question is, since we actually, I think, in the Folketing, at least those sitting here, share the basic analysis of the state of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whether the end of a parliamentary term is appropriate to be the time for such a decision to be taken. I think the honest answer is that there are too many interests at stake for that. That is also why my approach will not be a outright rejection, but will be a call for the committee to perhaps end up presenting a report in which it will then be possible to make a statement, among other things. the analysis and the wishes of the people and then, at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, engage in a thorough discussion in order to avoid all sorts of allegations that this is really just political interference in any future government's actions or whatever. There is no reason to engage in politics in this matter. I believe that there is a fundamental common desire, and in time I see it in such a way that we will reach agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320101856	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320101901	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Søren Pind. It is clear that the announcement he is making today is a bit surprising in relation to what the Left has said in the past, but I do not want to cut any more stickwood on that, because we all know the conditions for political work here too. What I am more concerned about is the commitment that comes from Mr. Søren Pind, that we can count on it to be a matter which the Left would like to commit to a later government on the basis of a later social democratic government or a later left-wing government, so that we can be sure that the discussion we are embarking on today is not in vain, but that it will actually help to get to grips with the many, many important issues that Mr. Søren Pind quite rightly mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320102000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320102002	Thank you to Holger K. Nielsen for his dignified commitment to avoid stickjacking. I am personally very pleased with that. Actually, I'll give you a stick for that! On a commitment, I can say the following: I cannot and do not have a mandate to give a concrete commitment to a Foreign Affairs Commission as such. But I can tell you the material There is no doubt about that. There is no reason to hide the fact that Danish foreign policy is challenged, both on the political side, but also in relation to the structure with which it is managed in terms of resources and organization. And it is therefore a common challenge for the parties of the Folketing to solve it. And I can certainly promise you that, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320102059	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen? Holger K. Nielsen No more). Then I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Jacob Lund as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320102122	Thank you for the floor. We are discussing today the Socialist People's Party's proposal to set up a Foreign Affairs Commission. First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for putting Danish foreign policy and security policy on the agenda and focusing on how our foreign service can be strengthened organisationally in the best way possible. I can only agree with the authors that Danish foreign policy is about defending Danish interests and that it is at several levels. It is about promoting Danish democratic values in the world and in particular Danish security policy. However, in 2014 we have just received clear evidence of how the world can be creepy changeable. It was Storm P. who said it's hard to predict, especially about the future. We have been following developments, among others. In Ukraine it is at least one example and we have also seen the cynical and brutal behaviour of Daesh and Boko Haram, and it has worried us all in 2014 and still does. The security policy and foreign policy consist of long, tough efforts, which are absolutely necessary, but which require patience and perseverance. It sets expectations for our foreign ministry, and it requires necessary adjustments to our foreign policy and the organisation of the ministry, and that is also why we need an ongoing dialogue and change of organisation. So that means that the Ministry has to adapt to the reality in which we navigate. For example: concrete organisational changes have been made in 2014 in order to be stronger in relation to the situation both in Ukraine and in relation to Daesh, both at home at Asian Square and at Danish embassies in the world. So there is no doubt that the Socialists agree with the proposers that we must, of course, organise our organisation so that we stand as strong as possible. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support the specific proposal. We all know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is under economic pressure, like many other parts of the central administration, and that is why we must also use our resources as best we can. We do not believe this to be the case by setting up a costly and time-consuming Foreign Affairs Commission. However, I welcome the debate and look forward to continuing to discuss how we can organise our ministry so that it can carry out the tasks facing the Ministry in the best possible way and continue to ensure Danish security and the Danes' values. And, unfortunately, the Socialists cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320102359	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320102417	Thank you. When I first saw that we had to deal with the setting up of a new commission, I thought: Oh, no, not a new commission again. But this is different from other commissions by not being such a commission of indignation, where millions are spent with the aim of revenge on political opponents. So, although I will not be able to sign all the many comments on the proposal, which is in what lies and without me committing myself to the support of DF, I would like to start by saying that the idea of a Foreign Affairs Commission is not so bad even. However, when we hesitate to support unequivocally the idea of setting up a Commission with the expenditure to be spent on it and the energy to be put into it and the time to be spent, it is because there are some questions that we will probably have to get answers to first. First of all, if we say 'yes' to the proposal, and it may well be that we do so, then I hope that we agree that this can only happen when we have all been convinced that the overall material that we have today and which is currently being sent to us is not sufficient for us as Members of Parliament to take the decisions on foreign and security policy issues that we are being presented with. For we are constantly getting material dripping in from all sides: from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' annual report, from the Ministry of Defence, from university institutes, from military analysts, from the intelligence services and from the Danish and international media, from our embassies and so on. In fact, I think that reports and analyses and future scenarios can sometimes be overfed. Here we are called for a comprehensive Commission report. It may be useful to get an overall picture of the issues Denmark will be able to face, but the question is whether such a Commission report will not be based to a large extent on the very sources of which I have just given examples. If that is the case, then a commission is less interesting. I hope that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen will also be able to give an answer here today on how long he imagines such a commission to sit. Is it going to be such a year-long affair where we will end up in years' time, when everyone has forgotten that there was even a commission, to wriggle with something that everyone has forgotten in the meantime? I would also like to say that, with regard to the defence of security policy and Denmark, there have unfortunately been many examples that predictions have not been made. When I sat and looked at the material from the last Commission from 1989, I remembered that it was ironic that, when it was set up on 1 April 1989, six months had been spent working hard on predictions when the wall suddenly fell and then all the predictions fell. I could also mention, as an example, that with the previous defence agreement, the submarine squads were abolished. That is a small example. This was done on the basis of a prediction that we will not need them anymore. Today, just 10-12 years later, we need submarines in the Baltic Sea. The Swedes use them as one of their most important monitoring options. We were also told that now there were no longer threats to Denmark's territory. So predictions and analyses and expert assessments are interesting, but I don't think you should rely on your safety on that sort of thing. I believe that foreign and security policy is too impossible to assess. We would rather, in the Danish People's Party, ensure that we are as broadly based as possible in terms of defence and business, so that we will be able to face the dangers that might arise. So to predict where the danger comes from is very difficult. Well, now I don't know how Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is planning that the further progress should be in relation to this motion for a resolution. I do not know whether he will put it to the vote, but Søren Pind mentions here an opportunity for a report on which we could agree in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I think that would certainly be a good way to land this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320102908	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Zenia Stampe as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320102918	Thank you. I do not think anyone would want to be very much opposed to such a Foreign Affairs Commission, for who does not want to have the great chromed overview of Danish foreign policy, and not least that which creates the framework for Danish foreign policy? In fact, there is no area of ministerial activity that spreads out as far as foreign policy is concerned, and which is also as unpredictable as foreign policy. Just to mention a few main areas: economy, export, climate, supply, security, not least, values. There are a great many things when we talk about foreign policy, and we must also note that, in all the areas I have mentioned now, developments surprise us over and over again. That is why it would be fantastic in many ways if we could have a Foreign Affairs Commission which, the day after tomorrow, could submit a report pointing out the future and showing the prospects for Danish foreign policy. Normally we are also very happy to set up commissions in the Radical Left, and I do not want to deny that we want to be involved in this in the long term, but what I fear is that the same thing will happen with what has happened here with previous Commissions, namely that there is a Commission which sits for a very long time, and when it finally comes with the great chromed overview, it has already been overtaken by reality. That should not prevent us from doing so. I also think that we should try to create this chrome-plated overview on a regular basis, the overall priorities and, above all, draw the organisational conclusions from this great overview. However, I believe that, on a rare occasion, I agree with the rapporteur of the Left that it may not be right now before an election. But it may well be in the near future. I do not think it is right now, and especially I do not think it is right now, after the rather violent year we have had in 2014, for some of the things that are being used as an argument for making such an Foreign Affairs Commission are developments that we have to respond to right now and here, and that we cannot sit and wait for a Foreign Affairs Commission to come to conclusions in a few years' time. So in the short term we do not support the proposal, but on the long run I think we will be involved in discussing the setting up of a Foreign Affairs Commission. You can then discuss how the timing should be. It is not right now before an election, nor is it right now when we need to draw some pretty quick conclusions from the latest developments on the global stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103159	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103203	I must admit that I do not quite think that I understand the great coherence of the Radical Left's arguments. Well, the main argument is that it shouldn't be right now, but when should it be? That is an argument that can always be used in relation to anything. On the other hand, given the great events we have experienced over the last year, as the Minister also mentioned, one can argue that perhaps we need to do this now, so that we can make our decisions on a proper basis. I know that the Radical Left attaches great importance to the fact that it is necessary to base its decisions on facts. It is always the motto of the Radical Left and they say that you listen to experts and so on. If we need to do this right now, I think we should be much more positive about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103259	After all, it is not because new experts and new knowledge suddenly emerge because a Foreign Affairs Commission is being set up, because it will be experts who already exist out there and who are continuously producing papers that come into our mailboxes in an influx, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also stressed. So that way it won't create new knowledge, but it's an attempt to create an overview that I really think is ill-timed right now, because I don't think we're able to create that overview right now. I also believe that it is more important now to respond to the latest developments than to create the great chromed overview. Then I also think that the Minister's review showed that adjustments are being made on an ongoing basis, and it is not very long since we have made the last adjustments. I wonder if there was almost a overlap when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen was Secretary of State when we changed the representation structure. So in this way we have just been through a process where there was a report, albeit not from the Foreign Affairs Commission, but there was this globalisation report which formed the basis for a new structure, and it then ends with a new structure of representation. So in this way we have just been through a major reform process, also on the basis of knowledge. However, I think it is an excellent argument that the timing should also be right, and I think it is good that every ten years we take a comprehensive view of the situation and create the chromed overview. I just do not believe that this should be done before an election or right now, when we are and need to adapt our structure to the very concrete, urgent threats that we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103434	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103436	I must admit that I still find it rather confusing what is being said. Every ten years, they say. Well, more than 10 years have passed since such a commission. And the great chromed overview cannot be created, they say. Well, why can't there be? That is what we must try to achieve and that the Radical Left rejects the creation of a chrome-plated view, I really am very surprised, and I am completely incomprehensible about it. No new knowledge can be created, they say. Why can't there be? That is precisely what we have the opportunity to do. In Germany, for example, Steinmeier has set in motion a great deal of work and actually created both new knowledge and new policy based on the enormous work that has been set in motion there to refine German foreign policy. It is a very, very important piece of work. So I am quite incomprehensible about the argument that the Radical Left is using here today. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103527	But you want to draw on existing experts and existing systems, which means that there will not be any new knowledge in connection with such a commission. As politicians, and it is not only in this area, but in particular in this area, which I think is more complicated than so many areas, we will always need some to serve us the chromed overview of all the different policy areas, the perspectives of them, the trends and so on. etc. But it is a huge piece of work, and we also know from previous Commission work that it is something that takes years. Just in defence, where Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and myself are both rapporteurs, we had a Defence Commission not very many years ago, and now it is already being proposed to create a new Defence Commission because reality has overtaken the old Commission far along the way. This is just the reality of Commission work. They take a long time to make, and it's a snapshot they show, and that snapshot is often a little out of date. That's why you have to make it anyway, but the timing is crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103629	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320103639	Thank you. We fully agree in the Enhedslist that such a commission is needed, perhaps with a little arguments other than those put forward in the resolution itself, but that does not change the fact that we think it is a proper idea and that it is needed. The recent developments in the world are well described in the comments. Other rapporteurs have mentioned what is happening, but perhaps we could also draw a little sharper, namely that we may be entering a new cold war. Or are we already engaged in a new cold war between East and West in Europe? So there's enough to do. But I may not think it is entirely adequate for the situation. I thought of it the other day when the Conservatives proposed a new cannon for primary school. They thought it was important for all primary school students to learn about the Mohammed drawings. I agree with that. I mean, you can't avoid that if you want to have a proper education. Then you have to take that episode with you. Now I'm kind of against those cannon suggestions that you have to force schoolchildren to do anything. The teachers can often take a better position on this than the Folketing with a decision. But I was wondering what it is that has been the most landmark in Danish foreign policy, in Danish security policy. And what has changed the situation for Denmark is not the drawings. It's our war participation. It's the fact that we joined Afghanistan. It is that we joined the Iraq War, in Libya and in Iraq again here. It is the change that is the greatest that has happened in Denmark, in how one perceives Denmark in the world. It is our participation in wars and not some drawings that are more or less forgotten, except in Denmark. I would therefore like to say, if I may mention a criticism of the motion for a resolution, that I believe that defence policy plays a far too small role in the justification for having a Foreign Affairs Commission. I just broke up, is the word defence even in the motion for a resolution? It doesn't. Defense Intelligence only comes out when you're looking for defense. I think it's wrong. In other words, is it that we have so much made our foreign policy a war policy in favour of Denmark's security policy situation? Is it in the interests of world development that we have joined in the chorus where it is easier to talk about weapons than it is to talk about other ways of resolving conflicts? So the words conflict research and conflict resolution should be much more prominent in these assessments instead of conflict escalation, in which Denmark unfortunately participates. What does it mean, for example? the conflict in the Middle East for Denmark's security? So, as far as I am concerned, perhaps the most important thing is that we wage war is that we have the unresolved conflict between Israel and Palestine. If Denmark could do something more to resolve that conflict, it was perhaps the very best way to increase Denmark's security. Our development policy, which was previously a brand name for Denmark, that we were out in the world helping poor people to develop their economy, their whole lives and their living conditions, is no longer the prominent thing that it was before. We are, of course, still doing away a lot, but it does not play the prominent role in how abroad views Denmark, as it did in the past. I think there is a need for an assessment of whether the activist foreign policy is the right one, if not we should have another. We are currently faced with a decision laying down Denmark's security policy for a long period of time: the acquisition of fighter aircraft, that is to say to spend a large, large billions of dollars on deciding to buy new fighter aircraft. That will determine Denmark's security policy, because fighter planes have only one purpose, and that is to be able to participate in war operations, in bombings in foreign countries. If we're just talking about the need for territorial protection, then the F-16s can and does know that. Holger K. Nielsen well, because we discussed this in the Defense Commission, in fact, for a very long period of time, if the task alone is to create territorial protection, that is to say to fly up when a Russian comes by, and I think that should be done if anyone is in doubt, or otherwise make sure that one does not violate Danish airspace. The F-16s can cover that for a long, long time to come. Then I would also say that when we get a long time ahead, drones are probably the solution, not expensive fighters. In this context, it is of course interesting that Boeing has set up a centre for research into drones and drone development in Denmark, among others. with the aim of being able to conduct surveillance in the Arctic regions. That is an excellent solution instead of wasting billions on new bombers. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320104218	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320104237	After all, it is interesting to hear the debate and all the clumsiness and good arguments used to support or tread water, or perhaps to endorse the excellent proposal of the former Foreign Minister here. Basically, as a state and as a society, we always have to ask ourselves whether Denmark should be a great power, a middle power or a small state. But times change and the boundaries between foreign policy, security policy and development policy also keep moving. I think it was interesting and also right that the Foreign Minister, in his presentation to the discussion, should point out that things are changing and that we in Denmark must constantly adapt to that development. The only question is whether it is ambitious enough for us to adapt. We are a small country, we are a small state, and if we only want to adapt constantly, we will have no role to play in the great international community. Therefore, every time we have a new Minister for Foreign Affairs and every time we have a new Minister for Development and this has happened some times since 2011 we have always suggested in the preliminary talks that, on the basis of a thorough discussion across the Danish Parliament, we have developed a foreign policy strategy for Denmark. After all, a strategy is not a plan that lays down in detail exactly what we should do and how we should act over the next 10-15-20 years. It goes without saying that this cannot be done. However, a strategy sets out a direction and a strategy expresses a priority. What is it that we, as a small country, must prioritise in our foreign policy in the coming years when the world is changing so strongly? We haven't had that point of direction. The former Minister for Development actually drew up a development policy strategy which we managed to reach agreement on across the political parties and the political blocs in the Folketing. It was a very good discussion we had, and it was something that I think can be a point of reference, even if hopefully there will be a change of government before that very long. We also need a foreign policy strategy. Now the former Secretary of State from the SF is proposing that we set up a commission. It has also been suggested by the Foreign Minister that instead of a large Commission, we could set up some analysis work in the various ministries, and the rapporteur from the Left proposes that we may alternatively draw up a report, because we are quite right in front of a choice. I am most inclined to say: let us make the report and then tread water until we have a choice. And when I am hesitant about the Commission and analyses, it is not because it is a bad idea to act on the basis of knowledge, but I simply lack political leadership on the foreign policy front. Why are we not politicians and, of course, first and foremost a government trying to set out political points of direction, which we must then, of course, have supported with knowledge from relevant ministries, from relevant researchers, from other relevant organisations and institutions, which can ensure that the political choices made are actually made on a proper and enlightened basis? Now, as I have said, we are short before an election, and that is why the time is not right for us to start the big thing. So we from the Liberal Alliance are very much in favour of creating a common foreign policy strategy, for we are fortunately, despite the differences that may exist, rather shoulder to shoulder, a strategy that points further out, and a strategy that clearly defines how we, as small communities, can play a wise role out there. I believe that we can play a wise role; I believe that there is a need for us to reform and revise on a number of points: where should Denmark be? Do we have to have pure Danish embassies everywhere, or can we imagine that sometime in some places we will set up Nordic embassies and then be in several places in cooperation with the Nordic countries? Who is going to run the reform process in the SF? No, the UN SF probably also needs a reform process, but the UN? Who is going to run the reform process? Why can it not be us from the Danish side? We are actually good at thinking new thoughts here, and it could be a really nice role we got from Denmark. What about our security policy contribution? How is that supposed to be? In this way, I think that a foreign policy strategy could rise above the traditional distinctions between foreign policy, development policy and security policy, and it could be incredibly exciting to get such work started. Let us wait until after an election and then tackle it when the elections are held, and then make sure that it becomes under a political leadership, of course building on knowledge and information from which we can take a stand, and then hopefully a broad cooperation across the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320104753	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320104756	I think that Mrs Mette Bock made a number of very relevant observations, which I very much share. A strategy is needed. She also touched on the relationship between experts and politicians. I do not know whether I fully understood that, but at least it is right that we should be careful that it is not the experts who take the lead in this work that we should have. But wouldn't Mrs Mette Bock agree that there should be such a certain interaction, dialectic called it in the old days, between experts and politicians? We must be able to react on the basis of knowledge, and the knowledge we can then acquire must not be what must govern us solely, because it must also be political choices. And is not such a commission a very suitable place for such a discussion? Because it is precisely a place where you have both experts and politicians, and where you have different interests, which, if I may say so, can quietly discuss such a strategy as Mrs Bock is calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320104901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320104902	In other words, if I am going to outline briefly how I could imagine such a process going on, then I think it is crucial that we start with a political discussion in which we say what the issues are. It goes without saying that a mandate must be drawn up, but it will typically be a government which draws up such a mandate. But the broad political debate on what should be in such a mandate, I think, should be the beginning of it. And on the basis of what is outlined in such a political mandate, one has to find out what it is then for knowledge that is needed • what it is for experts, what it is for institutions and organisations from which we need input. However, I would like it to be a politically-led process, not to say that we are now setting up a Commission, and then, on the basis of some mandate, it will be given free rein in some way or another, and then we will come back in again. So the process can be carried out in many different ways, and I noted Mr. Holger K. Nielsens's remarks that both politicians and officials can sit on such a commission. So I know there can be. However, it is crucial for me that it should therefore be a politically led process all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320105008	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320105010	I fully agree with that and it is a very important premise for this. I myself was in the Defence Commission in 2008, and there I actually think we had a very, very fruitful discussion between politicians, officials and experts. I know that too has been the case in previous Foreign Affairs Commissions. That is precisely what is intended: to have a space where one can discuss freely and without prejudice with one another, but also, in my opinion, also with input from the outside, so that one gets a more dynamic process and so that we get what I would call the foreign policy environment very much into a debate. Unfortunately, we do not have as much of that here in Denmark as we do in other countries, for example. Norway and Sweden, but we could get it, and I think it would be a great strengthening of our own foreign policy, our own position internationally, if we had, if I may say so, that discussion to a slightly higher level than it is at present. I have no doubt that such a commission could help with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320105113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320105114	In other words, it is possible that my immediate scepticism is due to the fact that commissions do not have a very good reputation in Denmark in general. We use or abuse them for many things, which may not be appropriate. What we're going to call it is, in fact, minor, for many of those things, sir. Holger K. Nielsen here outlines, I actually agree with one hundred percent. What matters to me is that this is a clear political leadership, and that is paragraph 1. Paragraph 2 is that it is not a Commission that will have to work for years, so that this work will be within a well-defined time frame, so that we do not have to tread water for years now, because that is really, really important when we look at what this is for a situation that is happening in the international community at the moment. So we are, in effect, open on the part of the Liberal Alliance, but, as I have said, we recommend waiting until after an election to get things moving.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320105207	Thank you to the rapporteur. Was there another brief comment that just came in? That's it, from Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Yeah. No. Oh. It was a mistake. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320105237	I would like to say that, like everyone else, I believe that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist People's Party on the table before us, which we are now debating, is a far cry from understanding and agreement. But I will also end up where most others, if not all, have ended, I would say. Maybe it's not right here and now and exactly the way it's gonna happen. I would, of course, like to elaborate on that. We are undoubtedly living under great changes. There have been huge changes in the foreign policy picture in recent years. Both in our vicinity and in the world, we have seen great changes. Not least the security policy situation has changed significantly with Russia's aggression in Ukraine. The situation in the Middle East is developing dramatically. There are also things happening in Africa that we almost forget because of what is happening closer to us. So there is no doubt that the enormous changes that are also happening here and now, as we are discussing and which are going to happen in the coming years, will require us to deal analytically with things, and this will require us to put a very clear strategy on the Danish side. Globalisation as such also requires a strengthened foreign service. In our 2020 plan, we in the Conservative People's Party have proposed the allocation of 100 million. kr. extra to the External Action Service, both for export promotion, but also to strengthen Danish presence around the world, not least in growing areas. And in the middle of all that, of course, there is a need for a very strategic foreign policy approach to precisely the changes, the challenges and also the opportunities that arise in connection with the changes, in order to strengthen Denmark's interests around the world. The main objective of such a strategist is, and must be, I also believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned some of the same thing: ensuring Denmark's freedom, Denmark's independence and the prosperity of the Danes, but also that we are working to strengthen democracy, human rights and sustainable economic development in developing countries. But conveying it in a strategy obviously requires an analytically well-founded basis. If a strategy is to be drawn up, it must be as evidence-based as possible, and there it is that I also want to question whether this is the right time and the right way to do it, as the motion for a resolution proposes. I mean, you have to... take into account that with the enormous changes that are taking place, which are not over, and which continue with great intensity right now and in the years to come, there is no doubt that a large, chromed commission work that lasts a long time will be obsolete before the report reaches the press and lies on the table before us. So it has to be a different approach to it. So if we want to carry out analyses to support the evidence in a strategy, there must be a different approach to it than such a very large, chromed Commission work, which will only become obsolete very quickly. Analyses and strategy development are needed on an ongoing basis. We need to change such a strategy. We should not think, as I think the motion for a resolution says, that if we first adopt such a strategy, then this is a strategy that we can then follow over the next many years. We come to developing the strategy on an ongoing basis, regardless of our strategy, because the changes are happening as quickly as they do. Winston Churchill, who has said many wise things, has among other things. It is also said that no matter how beautiful the strategy is, one should sometimes stop and look at the results. We would also come up with such a strategy based on work by the Commission. I also think that we should take account of the fact that it is the government which conducts foreign policy; it is not the Folketing that conducts foreign policy. That is why, naturally, it will be a government which initiates such an analysis or commission work or what it should be. Of course, the parties of the Folketing are involved in the dialogue on this, but it must be said that it is the government that conducts foreign policy, not the Folketing. I do not think it is the Folketing that should organise in detail a commission work. It must be the government's approach that carries the initiative. So understanding and agreement far along the way. It is quite right, including in the comments on the proposal, but not here and now and not in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320105800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320105813	I would like to thank you for the debate and for the comments that have been made, which have been positive and constructive in many ways, although there is no agreement to vote in favour of this resolution. I would actually like to start from the fact that we have a small country called Denmark. The historian Søren Mørch once called it the northern German plain, that is, such a small country that lies on top of Germany, but in which we have nevertheless been able to build a nation, a state. One might ask oneself: why should we have a foreign policy at all? Do we have opportunities to influence? Do we play a part? Is anyone listening to us? And why do we need to spend as much money as we actually do on foreign policy? Why do we need embassies in many different countries? Why are we spending resources on all this work? After all, this is an issue on which we, as politicians, have to deal all the time, also in order to justify why we are actually spending a lot of money on foreign policy. I have no doubt, of course, that we should do so, but I think it is important that we should be able to rationalise all the time, too, to analyse what we need with the resources we have and the opportunities we have around the world. It is true that this has not been done with Commission work, but in view of the very, very great changes we have experienced, especially in the last year the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke of a landmark year, and I fully agree with how many things around us change, it is necessary. What's going on in Russia? How can we deal with the big country that is changing? Do we know enough about what is running Russian foreign policy? There is instability in parts of Europe, largely due to Russian policy. There is the collapse of the Middle East, where the borders that were drawn after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire after World War I have been dissolved. We may have a completely new Middle East, which we do not even know today, perhaps with terrorist regimes, but at least different from what we have known so far. The new distribution of power in the world where the United States is challenged in many different places from new power centers to come. There is the whole Arctic issue, where climate change affects Danish security policy and Danish foreign policy, and there are some huge challenges there. Okay, we don't have much doubt that much is happening, but there's also a need to know a lot about it. But I do think that is true, as some have said, at least very clearly by Mr Seligman. Søren Pind, both today and in the past, is very lacking in a strategic approach to this. There is often a tendency for us to act reactively and to a great extent in response to requests from the United States, to put it quite clearly. A very good example is the Libya war, where we were quick here in the Danish Parliament to decide to send F-16 flights to Libya, and where we were very proud that we were the first to do so, that is to say that we were on our wings as early as the next morning, after we had dealt with this proposal in the Parliamentary Assembly as a matter of urgency. I even think that Mr. Søren Espersen was a little critical of it, as I remember it. But perhaps one might have asked oneself: should we not have had some thought there about what we are going to do and what the alternative is? Do we know what forces we're going to help and what forces we're not going to help? Do we have any idea what's gonna happen after Gaddafi may have overturned? I would say that we supported the Libya mission. We have also supported the current mission in Iraq, but I would like to ask whether we should not have had a rather more in-depth discussion there about what the consequences could be and what pitfalls there are. And should it not perhaps be part of a larger strategic context, in which we can, like, have a clear overview of where we use the various resources? One thing is that we spend and have spent many resources on military interventions in this country, but we can also turn it around and ask whether we could have achieved the same by using other instruments: development aid, humanitarian aid, that which Mr. Frank Aaen calls non-military conflict resolution. In other words, it is as if we have been entangled in a particular way of thinking foreign policy in this country. In fact, I believe that there is much, much need for us to turn the boat around and be able to think a little more out of the box with the limited resources we have, if I may say so, but on the basis of such a hero, overall premise that Danish foreign policy is needed; that we have a role to play in the world; that through the alliances we have, we can make a difference; that we have some values that we can also make a difference with. And we need that analysis. There was an excellent vision paper from the Ministry here just before Christmas. It was excellent, I thought, but I actually think that we need to dig a little deeper and that we are getting more people into this process. There are many people with that right now, I know that, but I really think that there is a need for a little deeper digging than has been the case. And, following that, I would like to say that we also have the instruments to do so. I mean, there have been huge savings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I know all about how such things happen within the government. I myself have sat on the government's Economic Affairs Committee and I know all about the discussions that are there. Of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must also be included in the priority given to state expenditure, the necessary priority. I fully agree with that, but that is why we can have a rather more general discussion: is it a wise policy that has been implemented there? Is it wise from Danish economic interests, from Danish political interests, to have made the economic cuts that have actually been made? We need to look at the entire recruitment to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We know that there are actually problems in maintaining people, because it is, if I may say so, quite burdensome for Danish families to have to travel back and forth in a perhaps short-term period. It might be 50 years ago, but it is far, far more difficult today, and therefore there is also a recruitment problem that we need to recognise. We must say to ourselves: if we want to play a role in the world; if we mean seriously that this area means something, also for the Danish economy, also for the Danes' self-consciousness, then we have to use the resources to be used, of course, on the basis of the responsible financial framework that every government must lay down and which I myself have helped to lay down. I think there is some tendency for that too, sir. Søren Pind said that you kind of sidetrack this, and you don't really want to discuss it publicly. In fact, I think there is a very good reason why we should have a very, very public discussion about what we want with this country in the world. What foreign policy should we pursue? What resources should we spend on that? What priorities should we set? What instruments do we have? And as I have said before, I believe that a commission is very suitable for this. There are many who have asked: Why right now? It's not a good time. But I would say that the time is always bad for something like that. Well, no matter when you propose this, you'll be able to use that argument. It will always be possible to argue that the time is bad, which is why you have to decide whether you want to do this or not, and then go ahead with it. So I don't really think you can use that as an argument, even in this context. Will this be time-consuming? No, not necessarily. As I mentioned, I was on the Defence Commission myself, and it was a very fruitful work that lasted for approx. a year, and then a few months were used to finish the report. It worked fine, I think. And this isn't an eternity commission, and of course it shouldn't be. But this can actually be done quite efficiently and also relatively quickly, and I have no doubt for a second that what you will get out of it will be extremely fruitful and something we will be able to use, also for many years to come. Mr. Lars Barfoed was absolutely right that you can't do that, and you shouldn't do that either. It must be a dynamic instrument to establish a much more general strategic approach to how we can conduct foreign policy in this country, so that we become proactive and not reactive; so that we ourselves set a framework, even setting priorities, on the basis of what we want in our lovely little country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320110828	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320110830	Thank you. I don't really know how to put the question, so sir... Holger K. Nielsen must show the same indulgence that he showed when he asked me questions. First of all, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that he has tried to sit on the government's Economics Committee, so he knows how it is going on. I think it would actually be useful for us to have a debate that might have been a little more detailed, in that it seems that modern politics is based on an economic priority, which will then mark the whole process of politics and hide the honest and honest debate about the real need which could then have been reduced to afterwards, if we had had a proper debate on things. And that is particularly true of the foreign policy area. It's kind of the call center in Mumbai I'm talking about. Could Mr. Holger K. Nielsen perhaps elaborates on having tried to sit on the government's Economics Committee for a while? So how can we have a fair political debate on these matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320110929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320110930	I mean, what I meant was that I know that spending is a daily priority, and sometimes you have to be a little harsh with the municipalities and other ministries, and that is the way it is. But what could then become a problem is what Mr. Søren Pind points out that it will be the economic priority that will be the starting point for the other political debate, and then things will go wrong. That is one of the reasons why I would like to have a commission set up so that we can have a broad-based analysis so that this does not just become a question of how to give priority to the various ministries. And so that we do not have some sort of bookkeeping debate, but a thorough analysis, so that we can discuss in depth what we want to do in foreign policy, and then, of course, we will have to discuss afterwards how we get the financial resources into that context. But the starting point of this is not to make it or that saving, but rather: What do we want with Danish foreign policy? And I think that can be a very important contribution to avoiding what Mr. Søren Pind so rightly mentions as a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320111052	Sir. Søren Pind? That's it? Sir. Søren Espersen? No more? Then I would like to thank the rapporteur; no one else has any comments. Would the Secretary of State like to get up again? Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320111107	I am sorry, but I have been strongly inspired by the debate that has taken place and would therefore like to make a few comments on some of the points that have been made, because I do not think that they should be completely free in the air. Søren Pind, who I think had a very good rapporteur's speech, pointed to the need to strengthen the Ministry of Foreign Affairs financially and explained that the Left had set 70 million. kr. off. It is perhaps due to say in the sign of sobriety that at the same time the Left is proposing to cut foreign aid to 0.7%, which, if I may say so, will automatically result in a large cut in the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will be considerably higher than the 70 million. kr., and that I also regard Danish development aid as a very important part of Danish foreign policy. That brings me to Aaen Frank's speech in which he says that development aid is not really something we pride ourselves on anymore. I have to say I disagree with that. Under the former Minister for Development, Denmark has carried out a new strategy of rights-based development aid, but also a development aid which is beginning to shift so slowly towards a more complex world, understood in the sense that many of the world's poorest people are in middle-income countries to which we do not normally provide development aid. One can illustrate this by saying that there are currently more poor people in India than in all of Africa, and that is why our development aid will also have to start addressing policy developments in some of these countries. That is why, last year, we have launched quite a new body of authorities in which we try, if I may say so, government to government, ministry to ministry, to give our regulation and social model to some of these countries. This applies to the environment and climate, to employment, to social affairs, for example. care for the elderly, and this applies to food production. Because this is a way for us to influence the countries of foreign policy, while at the same time, in parentheses, making it possible for them subsequently to buy our products, because we happen to be some of those who are best at meeting the standards they so hopefully set both socially, environmentally and externally. This has happened without giving in to the direction of poverty in our development policy, and it has been done in a way that also gives us the chance to influence the countries closest to us at the moment, for example. Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, which so much need the same type of judicial cooperation. I have been working on foreign aid for many years, and I think that our aid for developing countries, both multilaterally and bilaterally, is stronger than it has ever been when you look at the results and the fantastic efforts that are being made. Mette Bock correctly mentions political leadership as important. Changes are taking place in the world and in our foreign policy, and it is true that the last ten years have offered many changes. I agree that it is very much a political discussion to be held, and that brings me to my last comment. Because I kind of agree with Holger K. Nielsen and it just has to be such an appetizer for the discussion we can have when the security policy analysis is available that in the Danish public and also in our internal debates there is a disproportionately large focus on what might be called the military contributions. It's like the first thing you think about, that's what we can contribute. I myself have made that point several times. So I agree with that, and I actually sense that there is growing consensus in all parts of the Folketing that military efforts can never stand alone. They may be necessary, yes, but they can never stand alone, and they are never enough to win peace afterwards, and that is why, in connection with the last intervention, we have made so much effort to have a broad spectrum of efforts. But where I just have to say that I disagree with Holger K. Nielsen is in relation to the fact that it was supposed to be a slipper for the United States. I know that Holger K. Nielsen has such a picture of Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Georg Bush in Camp David, but that simplistic picture of it, i.e. that either you're like the United States or you're with the European Union that you're either Atlantic or you're European. Firstly, it depends enormously on who is in power in the various places, and I think that the foreign policy that Barack Obama and John Kerry are currently trying to pursue in relation to Iraq is broad-ranging and is based on several pillars; at least I am very much in agreement with that. Secondly, what is well known is chronic strategic Danish foreign policy, precisely that we have a good relationship both with Washington and with Berlin, which we can take as a picture of the whole of the European Union. The reason we are interesting for the Americans to talk to is that we have such a good relationship with the Germans and the rest of the European Union, and vice versa our position as the only Nordic country that is both in the European Union and NATO is very much worth it. I do not think that should be thrown out by simple punks that we are now just following one thing or the other. But all this is just to say that I think it's been a really good debate... thank you to the SF for getting it up. I can hear that there is a will and a desire to make a story that hopefully can embrace that motivation. We on the part of the government would very much like to contribute to this, if that is what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320111637	There are brief comments. First, sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320111642	The unitary list does not ignore our efforts in the field of development aid. That is why we support the need for it to be increased, in other words we would like to give more money to development aid, of course. I am just trying to point out that, years ago, where Denmark was most famous for conducting development policy, that is to say really be active in that area, being a participant in UN peacekeeping operations around the world, having a certain role in conflict resolution and mediation, Denmark has, unfortunately, become more famous for being a country going to war, went to war in Iraq with disastrous consequences, went to war in Afghanistan, which has also ended very badly, went to war in Libya, which has also ended very badly. That is what many people remember Denmark for today, namely that we are warring together with the United States, instead of putting emphasis on, for example, Denmark. The UN, peacekeeping operations, conflict resolution and development work. That is what I was trying to stress and which I do not think is sufficiently stressed in the motion for a resolution which we otherwise support, which the SF has tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320111759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320111801	After all, it is difficult to do what abroad's ideas about Denmark are and what reputation we have, but I am not sure I agree. There is no doubt that in the first war in Iraq we were noticed out there, as in our efforts as far back as the 1990s in the Balkans, so I agree with Mr Tugendhat. Frank Aaen in that it fills more in the picture of us. I also believe that our contribution to armed conflicts around the world does, but I am not sure that this has happened at the expense of development aid. So if I am going to try to give a reason why I am thinking this way, it is my experience, when I am around talking to the various multilateral organisations working for peace and stability and reconciliation and the fight against poverty, that we have a very high star. When I look at the last year, several Danes, Christian Friis Bach, Ellen Margrethe Løj in South Sudan, have been appointed last time, we have received a Major General for Mali, all the recognition of the different people's personal capacity, of course, first and foremost, but also a recognition of Denmark's incredible focus and long-standing stable contribution in these areas. So I'm not sure you can say that this is a zero-sum game where one always happens at the expense of the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320111922	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320111926	However, it is at least an important discussion whether we should continue with the activist foreign policy, in the sense that we are going to participate in more wars, and I even believe that we agree with that, and therefore I also warn against the resolution adopted by a large majority in the Folketing, virtually all parties to the SF, that we are going to invest a huge billion dollars in fighter aircraft, which can only be used for a mission, namely to participate in new wars, in new bombings. There I think it might be a good idea to take time to think: calls the experience of what we have been through, for example. The Iraq war and the other things we mentioned, on a continuation of that line or a renewal and a change of line more towards the United Nations, more towards conflict resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112020	I fully agree with Mr. Frank Aaen says that this is an incredibly important debate and there will be some concrete decisions to be taken, both when it comes to the purchase of military aircraft, but also when it comes to what foreign aid we should have in the future, where there are some real choices to take also economically, which we will be discussing. I usually say, in short, that I would like to move from an activist foreign policy to a pro-activist, and by that I mean that I recognise that military contributions may be necessary and that Denmark can make a very valuable contribution in these contexts too, but I think it is extremely important to make up for the fact that it is the most important and only contribution Denmark has and that one never only focuses on the military, but also always has the other efforts, the diplomatic, the humanitarian and so on. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go. This is an exciting discussion, and that is also why I just came up here again, because I think that this is what the motion for a resolution suggested that we should be able to move around a little too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112116	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112119	It certainly is. That is what this is all about: we will have a discussion on a possible different priority for it. I myself was with the Foreign Policy Name in Jordan here a few weeks ago, and we were in a refugee camp. There we could see that Norway is the country that provides the most resources of the European countries in that place. Norway has a huge profile around the entire relocation work, around the humanitarian in Jordan. Denmark is coming along well, but it is not nearly as much as Norway, for example. Conversely, in the military field, we are extremely strong. There it is we who are the European country which, in relation to population figures, is making most of it, and we are very much the ones who carry the military part of it here. We have supported military action in Iraq, but surely we need to discuss whether it is the right priority to do so. Is it not true that it was on the basis of a request from the United States that we did so? If the United States had not approached us, would we have been in Iraq today? It is the United States which, as it were, generates those activities, and that is why I think it is important to discuss whether we should pursue a reactive policy, so that every time the United States asks us for something, such a policy. Automatically say: Yes, we do or should we be allowed to say: No, we are not doing that in this context, because we want to do something else instead? In fact, we have that discussion very, very rarely here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112303	Well, it is certainly true that it is an American-led military operation that is taking place in Iraq and that it is at the request of the United States that we are involved and that the United States is a very close and close ally to Denmark. This has been the case for many years, and so it is here. There is certainly no automatic in it, nor do I think there should be every time the United States asks us for anything. It could also be turned around and said that we can be glad that the United States took responsibility for it, in this example in Iraq, where ISIL ravaged and very quickly gained ground and had probably sat all over the country today, if no action had been taken, that somebody would take on that leadership. But, of course, it is not the same as always doing what the United States says, and we certainly do not. That's more my point. But that is a fair discussion. I believe that we are in the decision-making process in many more places than our size actually justifies, because our contribution is large. They are also in the humanitarian field. I could mention other places in the world where Denmark is the leader in the humanitarian field. Not least inside Syria, the Danish relief organizations are doing a fantastic job, and Denmark must remain so. In fact, I believe that some of what Denmark is making itself a specialist in, and in which I would like to see us continue, is to better understand the combination of the military efforts that I unfortunately see as inevitable once in a while, and the softer efforts, i.e. how to make it play together, because military contributions can easily become destructive to subsequent peace processes and humanitarian efforts. The multi-spectrum effort, being able to do everything, if I may say so, or making it work, is perhaps one of the things that could be a bid for a future strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112453	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112455	Well, I fully agree with the considerations that I also agree with the importance of military action in Iraq, which is why we have also supported it. But what I am just trying to discuss is that there are also other options that could have been chosen instead, which had also been useful. It is, of course, the discussion we rarely have because, if I may say so, we almost per year. Automatically says yes when a military effort is requested. That is why I believe that we also need to have a more solid basis for that discussion than we currently have, where everything is often very short-term, very ad hoc in terms of the way we take decisions. But I fully share the Minister's analysis of how to base the broad-spectrum approach, and basically what he is saying, namely that it is a choice we must make ourselves because that is what we are talking about, and that is an important starting point. It's now a choice we make in this country ourselves. That is why I think that there is all the more reason for us to have more thorough work to do. However, I am also pleased that we can hopefully have a report written after this debate so that we can move forward after the parliamentary elections that will soon be held.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112616-2	I think that should be allowed to close the debate, as it is now the SF that has raised this debate. We look forward to the same report. We are also looking forward to presenting our security policy analysis so that we can hopefully also have a debate that will deepen our debate on that background before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112633	There is a further brief comment from Mr Seligman. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112635	The Foreign Minister thinks that it is just as strange as I am when, on the one hand, you hear Mr Tugendhat. Frank Aaen calls for more attention to be paid to the UN and UN soldiers and UN actions, while at the same time being aware that all the efforts in Afghanistan were UN sanctions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112659	Indeed, it is a good point that the efforts in Afghanistan, which are probably the largest military effort in recent Danish times, were completely rooted in a solid UN mandate from the outset and, incidentally, still are. This is, of course, an example, unfortunately, of the need for military intervention, but also of the fact that it is difficult when one wants to develop at the same time. But I can at least confirm that these things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112730	Sir. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112733	So I guess the greatest wound in modern times, Syria's conflict. Is it also the view of the Foreign Minister that the Iraq war is the worst thing that has happened at all, or does the Foreign Minister think that it can at least be intellectually argued that the situation in Syria, which has been described by the Danish Minister for Development as a disaster of biblical proportions and which the Red Cross has described as the greatest humanitarian disaster since the Second World War, is worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112805	I believe that, from any statistics to be used, we can argue that this is a greater tragedy in Syria than we have seen anywhere else in the world for many years. I voted against the first Iraq war in the '00s. I was against it because there was no UN mandate and because I did not think it was a broad-spectrum effort, which was just trying to include other efforts. That is why we must also say that it has had a limited success. But I do agree that Syria today is a major tragedy from my subjective point of view. I also agree that what some people are doing is probably too easy, namely to draw direct parallels or causal links between the efforts in Iraq and Syria, in the sense that all of us who were involved in Iraq left Iraq at a time when Iraq was not ready to take over itself, and that is one of the reasons for what we are experiencing at the moment, but it is certainly not the only one. Foreign policy is complicated matters. We have a tradition in this Parliament in order, despite the clear political differences that exist, to be able to come together, because we know that if we are not able to speak with one voice, we have no voice in the world that roars outside us, and I see the whole debate that has taken place today as being in a very good line with the tradition of speaking with a clear and loud voice about one's views, but also to have the willingness to find the common strategy with the rest of the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112940	Thank you to the Secretary of State. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320112957	The debate is open. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320113025	Thank you. Today we have to deal with a legislative proposal which will make it easier for citizens to vote in elections, and at the same time we will ease the administrative burden on both municipalities and parties in connection with elections. After all, both sounds very good, and I do not think I am surprised at anyone by already revealing that the Left is going to vote in favour of the bill. In recent elections, there have been some shortcomings in current electoral legislation, and this has given rise to a political agreement between us, together with the government and the other political parties in the Folketing, to modernise electoral law. This bill then translates this agreement. The elements of the bill can be divided into two categories. One category relates to the consideration of voters and the so-called authors and contains the following proposals: in future, we must be able to vote from 1 p.m. 8:00 a.m. on election day. That means, of course, that more people will have the opportunity to vote before they come to work. In this way, hopefully, we will also be able to address the problem of the long queues in the evenings at the polling stations, while at the same time providing a better service to the many voters who, fortunately, have a job. Today, people can vote in letters three months before the elections, but you only have the full overview of which parties are running for the elections much later, four weeks before the election day. Therefore, the timing of the start of the vote and the date on which the lists of candidates are approved and thus publicly known will coincide in the future. This also means that the names of the individual candidates are known, so hopefully there will be more correspondence votes that will be personal votes. Information on the candidates and candidate lists running for the elections shall not be made publicly available through public access until the lists of candidates have been approved and published. And then the bill also refers to the fact that posters for municipal and regional elections and for non-party parliamentary candidates should no longer be publicly available for the purpose of protecting the political convictions of the contributors from publication. The second category of the bill then relieves the administrative burden on municipalities and parties and includes the following measures: The deadline to vote in this country is brought forward by 1 day to three working days including Saturday before the election day for all types of election. In future, the chairman of the electoral board may refuse to accept lists of candidates for municipal and regional elections, which apparently do not meet the formal requirements, and the current rule that there is an obligation to be appointed to municipal and regional elections, that is to say what we call a bourgeois ombud, is proposed to be abolished. The rule has no meaning in practice. Fortunately, no one is forced to run. There are quite a few of us who do so voluntarily. Finally, it is no longer necessary for candidate lists that have already been elected to the municipal council or the regional council to regroup their seats in order to be able to run for the next elections. After all, it was a proposal that the Danish People's Party made some time ago. We dealt with this in this Chamber on 16 May 2013 and then there was almost no end to how much chaos it would give and how terrible it would be. Not least, sir. Simon Kollerup of the Socialists spoke of unfair discrimination between new parties and old parties, and I do not know what. That is why, of course, the Left is pleased that the government has now changed its position on this issue and therefore today thinks something different than was done on 16 May 2013. It's gratifying. What is not so gratifying is the automatic reaction, which unfortunately is in the Folketing by means of motions for resolutions tabled by the European Parliament. definition is something that needs to be voted down. I'm sure it's the same when the government has a different color. It is actually a pity that we are not better at having an open-minded debate on the content of the motions for resolutions tabled. It may well be that something sensible came from time to time, even if it is from an opposition party. Anyway, the Left is in favour of the bill. These are sensible changes to the electoral law, and we are also part of the political agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320113501	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no questions, and then it's sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democrats, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320113507	After all, we evaluated the local and regional elections in 2013, and that evaluation showed that there is a need to change our electoral law in some areas. Therefore, the government and the other parties in the Folketing have concluded an agreement which we are now implementing with this bill. The aim is rather noble: to create the best conditions when elections are held, both for the electorate and the candidates nominated, but also for the municipalities, which are experiencing a great deal of administrative pressure on election day itself. The bill is basically about adjusting and adapting the framework of the elections so that it becomes easier to vote and less difficult for the municipalities to administer. For me, there are three advantages to the bill. Firstly, it will be easier to vote. In concrete terms, it will be easier for all of us to come down and vote, and with the bill the voting points will already open at 1 p.m. 8:00 in the morning. It gives the opportunity to vote before going to work, which is practical for some, and I think it will be easier in the future for a number of families with children to vote. If, for example, you're gonna have to... to deliver children in crèche, kindergarten or school, there will be an opportunity to enter the gym and vote afterwards. It will also be easier to vote when you have been given time off from work, because when citizens can vote at several times a day, it also means that on election day some of the typical peaks and queues that we see between 8 a.m. are taken. Four o'clock and four o'clock. 19 in the evening. The next advantage is a waste of votes, because the proposal also takes into account the fact that all candidate lists are not always published when you cast your vote. This means that there are some candidates who can miss out on personal votes because it is simply not yet possible to know whether they can be voted on. On other occasions, it has become apparent that the media, through a request for access to documents, publish an unapproved list of candidates, and this helps mislead citizens who wish to vote in a letter. Because if citizens vote for a non-approved candidate, their vote will be null and void. So, in order to ensure that candidates are equal and that citizens avoid their voice being wasted, yes, we are in line with the deadline for the approval of the lists of candidates and the deadline for the earliest postal votes. In this way, the rules are quite clear to the electorate when they have to vote, thus avoiding a waste of votes. At the same time, candidates are treated equally to the letter mood. Finally, the proposal means that in a number of areas we facilitate administrative work for the municipalities and the parties. Parties and lists that have been elected to the municipal council will be exempt from the requirement to collect poster signatures with this agreement and this bill, and it will be easier to notify electoral federations. In addition, in the last days of the letter voting period, municipalities are experiencing enormous pressure as a result of the growing number of correspondence voices we see. That is why we are now bringing forward the deadline for sending correspondence votes by one day, because this will significantly reduce the number of correspondence votes that only arrive on election day itself. It will thus facilitate the municipality's task to pick up the letter votes outside opening hours in the morning before the election action starts, and then subsequently have them sorted and distributed to the right polling places. With those comments, I would like to say that the Socialists can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320113911	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320113916	Well, I'd just like to say I'm delighted to hear that Mr. Knox... Simon Kollerup has come to his senses and understands that it makes sense that a party elected to the municipal council or to the regional council no longer has to collect 50 contributors, when the party has proved by an election four years ago that 4%. by the electorate has voted for the party. I think that's really nice, and I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup, what it is that has convinced him that it is possible to abolish the demand for poster lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320113949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320113950	I appreciate the very sincere way in which I thought it seemed like an interest in my party's attitude. I think it should perhaps be borne in mind that this draft law is, as I think I also said at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech, a common and very broad political agreement which all parties in the Folketing are behind. And, of course, it is important that, in order to reach an agreement, parties can also see themselves in it, and this, as Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned earlier, is a wish of some of the other parties, and we have included this in the agreement and of course hope that it can land properly in the municipalities. This does not change the fact that there are some things to be taken into account when introducing this requirement, namely whether there is identity, as it says, between the established and elected list in the municipal council and then the new one who wants to set up without having to assemble contributors. This gives some local considerations that need to be addressed, and it provides an extra job for the election board. But we're taking that along, and here we've gathered the whole parliament behind this deal, and I think it's worth a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320114053	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320114102	This bill is a bill which has the fantastic background that the whole parliament seems to be in a joint agreement, and that is why perhaps we should have already finished the debate, because it can go quite quickly when everyone agrees with the principle. Of course, this bill also contains a number of initiatives. We have, of course, in all the elections that have been in Denmark, had a tradition that we always evaluate on the basis of the choices that have been made. On the basis of the election results, the parties evaluate whether they think it went well or badly for themselves it is one side of the matter. But the second is how the purely practical things have been carried out: have there been many complaints that have been dealt with in each election committee? And has the election taken place in good practice and according to the law there is? It is therefore also gratifying that the government's attention has chosen to make a joint initiative to change some of the places where there are some shortcomings in the electoral law in force. And some of these eight different elements may be relatively minor clarifications, but all in all they help to equate the electoral process so that it is carried out uniformly in all the different municipalities and constituencies, and it helps to create transparency, in relation to the same background we have, in order to carry out the elections, whether in municipalities, regions, parliaments or the European Union. There are rapporteurs before me who have explained the individual elements, and I shall not tell you about all eight excellent things, but I would like to mention the element on which there has also been a little debate, and it is precisely paragraph 7 on the proposals of the Danish People's Party which has been discussed here in the Danish Parliament on several occasions. Because we thought it was a little vague that candidates already elected were asked to have to go out and obtain new funding from the electorate by having to fill in posters and so on. After all, we have made proposals in the past, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left also said, and when it was Mrs Margrethe Vestager who was the Minister for the Interior, we were told that unfortunately this was not possible; it was a good and well-intentioned idea, but it would not be possible to be implemented in the real world. But there we have to note that it has, after all, got it here a few years later, and we are, of course, glad to have done so. With regard to the fact that, in future, there is no such thing as access to poster lists, so that it cannot be used in relation to who is the contributor to the individual party lists, I would say that this is also something that the Danish People's Party has wanted on several occasions. In the 1998 election, for example, DSU, Denmark's Social Democratic Youth, I think it was in Syddanmark somewhere after they got their hands on the Posters of the Danish People's Party in a number of municipalities, to make some homemade posters that you hung around the city, and then you wrote: Here you can see what kind of foul people are put forward for the Danish People's Party. This was, of course, a completely absurd situation, and it is also many years ago, I know that, but it is quite reasonable that we should now ensure a proper approach to it, with the fact that being a contributor to a party is a matter of trust, and that, of course, it should also be with the degree of anonymity that is possible in practice. So we think it's a really good deal we've got here. We have re-examined a great many of the small challenges, and we have clarified some of the shortcomings of the electoral law in force, and overall this is at least for the benefit of the Danish people's government. The Danish People's Party can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320114443	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320114449	Thank you. I shall not go into detail on the content of the draft law. The previous rapporteurs have mentioned this, but I will briefly explain what we in the Radical Left think is important to highlight. With this bill we are introducing a number of quite relevant changes, we think, with modernisation of electoral law. The main changes are as follows: Opening hours: opening hours at 1 p.m. 8.00, is a significant advantage. This means that many more people will have the opportunity to turn up and vote, and it will give less pressure to the polling stations. Everyone who has been to the major polling stations after working hours knows how difficult it can be to stand in these long cows, and I hope that with this change we can also help ease the pressure in the afternoon and also give families for children to arrive early in the morning when they still deliver children. We are, of course, open to see if there should be any special conditions on smaller islands compared to these opening hours. I think we will look at that in the further reading of the committee. The second point is the period for the vote on the letter, which is shortened from three months to six weeks, which means that as a voter you know the lists of candidates for the vote on the letter, and that is a great advantage, I think. It also allows you to have more time in the municipalities to handle these voices when you get one more day to do it. Finally, there is the exemption from the requirement for charts, which was also discussed just now. If you are already elected to the city council, you no longer need a poster list. We consider this to be positive. This will facilitate the work of the candidates and, in particular, when elected to the City Council or the Regional Council, we think it makes sense. At the same time, it will ease the bureaucracy a little by checking the register of posters. Overall, therefore, the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320114646	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320114652	A choice must be as easily accessible as possible, it must be easy for voters to vote, there must be no unnecessary administrative procedures for setting up, and there must of course be as little scope for errors as possible. That is why it is good that, with the political agreement and now the implementation, we are getting right the inappropriateness shown by the evaluation of the recent elections. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320114715	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320114735	Thank you for the floor, President. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, there have been two political problems in the course of these negotiations to which we should address ourselves. One was the question of the publication of the lists of authors, that is to say, a clause will now, if I may say so, be included in the Public Access Act, which in practice means that it will not be possible to have access to posters in the future. The second question is, after all, what has been discussed here by the previous speakers, i.e. the abolition of the obligation to come with authors if you are already on the town council or the municipal council. As far as the first point is concerned, the publication, or rather the opposite, of the poster lists, is, like two considerations we have had to deal with here. One is a fundamental consideration of full transparency in the electoral process, and the other is the consideration of the right of citizens not to have their political opinions exposed. After all, it is virtually impossible to reach a compromise between the two considerations, so after careful consideration and answers to several questions we have chosen the latter. It can be said that this also fits in very well with the position we have adopted ourselves when we had to move to electronic poster lists in elections to Parliament, where Enhedslisten was, I think, one of the leading ones, in order to ensure that we had proper protection of the information provided by citizens in this regard. So in this way we think that our point of view has been coherent. There is so little more to it on the second question that parties already on the city council do not need to make a new list of authors. I myself personally, when the Danish People's Party's proposal, I believe, was dealt with in this Chamber, opposed it with such a politically reasonable argument, so that there should not be equality between new and old parties, if one can put it that way. I was then later lectured by more experienced comrades, including Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, who politely reminded me that the Enhedslisten had in fact earlier in history, i.e. before my time, and it did not go so far back, at least in the context of the Parliament, had supported such a proposal, so I had to discuss it a little in the group again. That is what can happen when you are a new and very eager rapporteur, that is to say you do not have a proper look at things. So there we should have brought things together, so the conclusion was that we could support this view. If I have to find a fig leaf so personally to do so, it is, of course, that in the election to the Folketing we have in principle the same rule, namely that parties already sitting there do not have to go out and prove their worth to the electorate. So it also found a good, friendly and coherent solution for us. I would just like to say to the debate that when you hear the speeches that have been made, especially from the Left and the Danish People's Party, you can get the impression that we are now doing something similar to a fundamental change in society, perhaps even a revolution in the work of the people's regime. There you may have to adjust your expectations a little bit. I believe that the excellent small changes we are making here will not have any significant effect on what was actually the most important thing, namely to get the turnout even higher than it is in elections to Parliament, municipalities, etc., and in this case, especially municipalities. But these are some excellent, fine changes to some bureaucratic things, and then we have to hope that it will help the whole situation of the electoral process, so that it will also rub off on the electorate and they will be more willing to participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115157	There is a question from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115200	I am pleased that a representative of the extreme revolutionary left is talking about adapting one's expectations to the outcome of the revolution. I can only agree with that, and I hope that Mr. Finn Sørensen has done the same. I would like to ask you a few more questions on whether Mr. Finn Sørensen has learned something from this whole process, because when we discussed the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Finn Sørensen very much pointed out in his remarks that the Left at all allowed itself to mean something other than the former Left Minister, Mr Sørensen. Bertel Haarder meant it. And you were on the same side as Mr. Simon Kollerup, when it came to explaining all the problems that would arise and the discrimination there would be etc. The argument that parliamentary parties are not going out to gather contributors was also put forward in the debate on the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party, but it is possible that Mr. Finn Sørensen didn't listen at the time. I can't tell you that. But Mr. Finn Sørensen learned something, and will Mr. Sørensen. In future, perhaps Finn Sørensen will look a little more prejudiced at motions for resolutions which come from parties with which he does not agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115315	Thank you. After all, my expectations of the fundamental change in society are being adjusted every single day in this Chamber and among other things. to discuss with representatives of the government and representatives of what is called the opposition. So it's an exercise I'm still going through, every time I take part in a debate here in the Folketing. With regard to the question of learning, I am sorry for one insinuation that lies in the question, namely that it should be because it was the Danish People's Party that put forward the proposal that I opposed it. I do not think that is fair, and if you go back and look at the rapporteur's debate, you can see that I had some political arguments in that debate. So I think that is uncomfortable, even considering that we sometimes do common things with the bourgeois parties and that we also sometimes support resolutions that come from the Danish People's Party. At any rate, I remember a proposal in the area of disability which we had no difficulty in supporting. So we try to deal objectively with the content. What I have learned from this is that one has to make a thorough analysis of what one's party has meant in the past in such a case, and then just discuss it with more experienced comrades before busting something out on the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115437	Thank you. You're always allowed to change your mind. Thank you to the rapporteur. Okay, it was because Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen had not marked. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115450	Well, at least I'm glad to hear that mr. Finn Sørensen has learned that you have to prepare before going to the Parliament's platform. At least we've made it a little bit further.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115459	It's a good thing I can do, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen happy right here up to a weekend. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115506	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115512	The bill here will make it easier for parties already elected to municipal boards, city councils, to re-establish. They don't have to collect posters again. This will make it possible to stand for a party without it becoming publicly known that it is doing so, so that, like the election procedure, it can be done anonymously. And then the bill will extend the opening hours in the voting rooms to start already at 8:00. 8.00, so that people can vote before they meet at work if they are not some of those who have a relatively early meeting time. After all, there are a number of people who meet at work at 9:00. 8:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. Seven o'clock. But they also typically get the previous time off, and then they can vote when they get home. We support the fact that there will be less paperwork on resetting to municipal councils and that it will be easier for voters to vote, and that is why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115625	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115631	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party also supports the bill, and we do so because we always support it when it becomes easier, easier and more transparent, and when we help democracy and make it easier to participate in an electoral procedure. And that's what this is about. There are a number of formal rules on registering, and this is simplified and made easier. We extend the opening hours on the day of the election to last from 1 p.m. 8:00 in the morning, i.e. an hour extra if elections are held on a daily basis. We can only back that up. On the last day that can be mailed, there is a fixed opening time all over the country from 8 a.m. 9.00 to 16.00. That day is brought forward a little so that everything can be achieved, and we can support that too. Most importantly, I think, in this draft law, that when elected to a municipal council or a regional council, you do not have to go out again and get posters. It has been quite unreasonable in our view that this was necessary in the past. We have also discussed this in the past at the request of the Danish People's Party, where we supported that once elected, it should not be necessary to go out again and prove that there are enough people who support you. Now it's also tampered with. So it is an excellent legislative proposal as a whole, and it supports the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115747	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115802	I would like to thank the rapporteurs both for the fine reception of the draft law today, but also, in fact, for the very good cooperation we have had between the parties in building it up and the constructive debate. It is important that we continually develop our democracy and think about how we can do it even better, and that is why I am pleased that we all agree that it is time to modernise electoral legislation in a number of areas. This is done on the basis of the evaluation of the 2013 municipal and regional elections and the experience of the European Parliament elections and the referendum that we had last year, which has shown the need for some adjustments to the way in which we run elections. With the bill, we are making changes that take account of voters and contributors, but also make things easier for the lists of candidates and for the municipalities that administer the elections. These are changes that contribute to the more appropriate conduct of future elections and referendums, and thus also improve our democracy. If one thing is to be emphasized, it can be said that we now have the basic opportunity to vote as early as 1 p.m. 8.00, hopefully it will make it easier for many to participate in the elections and ensure a continued high and preferably rising turnout. We are, of course, also listening to the answers to the hearings that have been received, and that is why, in the course of the committee's work, we will look at the small islands where concerns have been raised in relation to the advance of the opening hours. But overall, I look forward to a positive approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115928	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115936	The debate is open. The first is sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320115956	Thank you for that and I would also like to thank the Minister. This was originally supposed to have been one legislative proposal, that is to say what we were discussing just now and what we are dealing with, but the Minister showed goodwill to divide the draft law into two, and we think that is positive because the Left is against the legislative proposal that we have to deal with now. It is a draft law which will allow local councils to recruit young people aged 16 and 17, that is to say young people who do not yet have the right to vote, and they will then have to provide practical help, such as those referred to as juniors, at the polling points of the elections. And the purpose of this is supposed to be to contribute to the democratic formation of young people aged 16-17 who will soon have to take part in their first elections. Now we in the Left think that the 16-17-year-olds are quite reasonable. This was reflected in the school elections, where the Left became the sovereign largest party and where there was a significant blue majority. So much suggests that 16 to 17-year-olds are quite reasonable, and there is no doubt for the Left that it is of course essential that young people are involved in democracy. Democracy is not something that comes of itself, and when we have it, we must remember to keep it that way. But is it the junior order that is the way to create more democratic formation for young people aged 16-17? When we dealt with it in the Left, Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, who has a past as chairman of the VU, and who is considerably younger than me, say that his argument would be that it would then make the young run away screaming that they should sit there with a lot of old elves as I think he expressed it and already from 8 a.m. 8 In the morning they should sit and draw in a curtain, or whatever it is they are allowed to do, for they must not sit and hand out ballot papers. So it was certainly not something that could get people to become more involved in democracy that one had to be organised all day. Then you have to remember who you want to name as these juniors. Well, it is the political parties and thus the political youth organisations that have to appoint them, so it is already some people who are VUs, KUs, RUs or DSUs, who are now supposed to be more democratically committed than they already are by having to go up at 1 p.m. 7 in the morning and participate in the ceremony and, by the way, cannot be at an election party with their friends from the party associations in the evening, because they must then sit at some school. Well, it doesn't make much sense, and for us it's clear that the real purpose of this bill is to open a cat lady to 16 years of voting time. It is 16 years of voting in the back door, and when it has run a few years, one can say: Well now, when the young people can be juniors, we can also give them the right to vote. There is, of course, a reason why it is called "constitutional voters." I mean, it's not called a co-ordinator, but it's called a co-ordinator. After all, the whole system is based on the fact that we have some voters who vote in some elections and some of the voters are elected, and some of the voters check that the elections are going on properly. It does not make much sense for a person who is not of age, who does not have the right to vote, to check that an electoral procedure is carried out properly. It is in the whole system of having those who are meant to be: it could just be some people you employ, but the idea is that it should be voters in the municipality who keep an eye on everything going on as it should. I do not need much time to mention why the Left is opposed to voting for 16 years, because that is not what the draft law is about, but I would just like to say briefly that it is such that if you have the right to vote, you are also eligible. And the Left does not think that at the age of 16 you are ready to sit in either the Folketing or the municipal council. So with those arguments, I have to say that the Left cannot support the bill. We think this is nonsense and we believe that it is an attempt to sneak 16-year voting rights through the back door.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120405	This led to a number of questions. The first is from sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120412	According to the draft law, the juniors must act as practical helpers in the election process. They can learn something from this, and it is also a real practical help at a time when you may have problems with getting people to come, and then you can use some young people to make it practical. I have noticed that the Youth of the Left has Members as young as 13, 14 years of age, 15 years of age who help the Left with the practicalities of an election campaign. They hand out pamphlets and they put up posters. I should like to know whether it is a signal from the Left that voting age should be reduced to 13-14 years, that in this way you have young people who cannot vote to help you with the practicalities of an election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120510	The answer to that question is no. I understand, then, that the Liberal Alliance is almost thinking this about getting some young workers to help with the practical tasks of the elections, as a kind of social dumping. But I must then disappoint our liberal friends that the salary they are supposed to receive is the same as that of adults and the right voters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120534	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120535	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen can hear what he wants to hear. I have not talked about social dumping at all. I have talked about extending the recruitment base of residents of a municipality, including with young people who can come in and help hold the elections and do the very practical things... not to hand out ballot papers and count ballot papers, but to set tables and pull the curtain to the side, etc. But Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is gonna be my answer guilty. Is it that the Left spends young people of 13, 14, 15 years in the election campaign, saying that the Left wants to pave the way for them to have the right to vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120620	I'm not a guilty answer. I said 'no' loud and clear, and it is not the voters who set up tables and the boxes in which you have to vote. So this is something the school officer can handle the day before the election. And the thing about pulling curtains isn't something that takes up such a lot on election day. If sir... Ole Birk Olesen himself had been appointed the electorate, he would know that it is a tiny little thing in it and something that you put to some of the older people, who may have a little difficulty in seeing what is on the lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120656	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120659	I have to admit, frankly, that I am entirely in line with the Liberal Alliance and their somewhat unfamiliar attitude towards the Left in this matter. Imagine it was supposed to be election parties, which like keep people from coming down and joining the junior order. I think this is a very good proposal because it brings democracy closer to young people and it may also provide a broader recruitment base in relation to getting adults to join later when they are needed. There's one thing I've been wondering. And that is, of course, that the Left has been part of the whole package we have just discussed, but this very proposal is outside it. At the same time, in the Left, as I understand it, we want to lower the age of criminals to about 12 years, it is well, with new youth courts and criminal services, etc. In other words, 12-year-olds should be able to be punished for crime, while 16-year-olds, God forbid, should not be able to enter and experience an election room on election day. Can the rapporteur not try to tell me what is behind this thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120802	It's like we're moving a little off the subject. It is a question of the electoral system. However, it is up to the rapporteur to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120811	Well, I don't think we should involve God in this. Here it is people who decide, so what God forbids or not, we have to leave him alone. This has nothing to do with us. In other words, I could reply that the Socialists will not allow young people of 16 years of age to buy cigarettes or naked girls for that matter, but that they may well be pre-arranged. There are plenty of these age limits, which are a little random. But when we speak to pre-arranged voters, there is a connection between choosing whether or not to be appointed. For the electorate responsible must check that the elections are going as they should. For example, those who draw curtains must: ensure that no two people enter the voting box, etc. It is we ourselves who are watching for the democratic rules that are set up to work, and that is why we have pre-arranged voters. I don't mean to set up tables and chairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120907	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120908	After all, this has nothing to do with replacing the people in the polling room. This is a supplement to the possibility that young people aged 16 to 17 can get to the polling place and experience an election act, join the day and get closer to the democracy that they think is a little far away. I have to be quite right about what the President is trying to do, so to point out that my question is not about the matter. I think it is a great deal about the matter that the Left, on the one hand, wants to lower the age of criminals so that young people can be punished, but, on the other hand, does not want to introduce the possibility of being appointed junior at the age of 16-17. I do not understand that distinction, and I think the Left owes an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320120953	Then it is the rapporteur. And I would just like to say that it is always the President who decides whether it falls outside the agenda, that is not the questioner. But it is the rapporteur who has the right to reply to what is being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121005	Yeah, but it's silly, what, Mr. Cole? Simon Kollerup is coming with us. I have not seen any proposals from the Socialists to raise the age of criminals to 16. We should do so if there is to be the logic of things, as Mr. Simon Kollerup is looking for you. But it was new to me that the juniors should be a supplement and not go in in part and replace the pre-arranged voters. Because that must mean that the number must be increased, and that must also mean that the municipalities will have financial burdens when they are going to employ more people, because they now also have to pay a few juniors in addition to the same number of registered voters as they had before. So I have to ask: where is the DUT compensation for this extension compared with those provided for in the draft law?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121053	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121055	Thank you. I would therefore recommend that the rapporteur read the bill. After all, there is no risk whatsoever of the things the rapporteur says. It is clear, of course, that the juniors alone must carry out duties of a practical nature and solely on instruction and under the appropriate supervision of electoral leaders or appointed voters. So a very clear dividing line has been drawn in relation to what these juniors may and may not do. I think that is clear. So it has to be based on a lack of confidence in the government and the electoral board if you think that this is a slippery slope in relation to what tasks they take over. But I have one question: why should Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt is taken as a witness of truth? This is the only concrete example of the fact that it should be quite reprehensible and detrimental to young people's interest in democracy to invite them in this context. This is not a duty for young people. It is for young people who are interested in politics and would like to see how an electoral procedure is carried out and to give a little help. That is what it is all about, nothing more or nothing less. So what's that about, sir? Jakob Engel-Schmidt, in addition to being the rapporteur's party colleague, who makes him a particularly good witness of truth in this matter? So I would like to ask the rapporteur: on what does the rapporteur's fear that this would lead to a reduction in voting age? How many of the parties supporting this bill are in favour of reducing the voting age to 16 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121236	Well, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt is a good Leftman with some sensible views, and I always listen to him, and I haven't taken him in a lie. He is a good witness of truth in which I always trust, and it is not so long ago that he was 16 years old, as it is that I was 16 years old, and that is why he may also be able to contribute a little in that direction. But once I've tested the bill on others, the automatic reaction has been: Ha, it's 16-year-choice through the back door, that's smart!
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121311	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121312	Well, at least I think that sir... Jakob Engel-Schmidt has been bored with shame the day he was involved in this, I have no doubt about it for a moment, but it is not necessarily the same as that all sorts of other young people who are interested in politics will experience it in the same way. On the basis of a single example, which deals with one of the rapporteur's close colleagues, and who has been bored on a particular occasion, and he thinks that this is something awful boring, one therefore builds up a whole argument and says that then one will also cut off other young people who might be interested in it from being allowed to participate in it here, and that is what I thought was a flimsy basis. I have to say that I am aware that only one party in this Chamber is in favour of reducing the voting age to 16 years, namely the Enhedslisten. So why are you so afraid of this when the other parties behind this bill say clearly that they couldn't dream of that? Finally, I would just like to say that I think it is possible to point out that some things are not connected. You want to help put children in jail, but you do not want to give young people an opportunity to participate in such an election with the positive effect it might have on their interest in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121436	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121437	I am sorry to say this, but to say that the Left wants to put children in jail is a lie, and Mr. Finn Sørensen, too. Young people under the age of 18 are not going to prison because they are children, and that is the case in Denmark and that is the case elsewhere. The Left does not want to put children in jail, and that is why I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen should keep himself too good to make such lies in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121500	Then it's mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121503	Thank you. I support Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's observation that it is a bunch of old leprechauns sitting there in the polling stations and as I hear Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, he agrees with that observation. So my question is really: what are we going to do from the Left to change the picture that it is a whole lot of old elves sitting there so that we can get some young people to help and get a taste for democracy, for participation? That is one question. There is another question, because I think I need to explain the link between the great support for the school elections, which I understand the rapporteur has, the support for the participation of posters and pamphlets, even if you are under 18 years of age, and the wish that these young people, whom I also hear the rapporteur say is quite reasonable when they are 16 and 17 years of age, should not be allowed to participate in what is really the best thing in democracy. Can the rapporteur perhaps explain what the context is there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121606	Now there were many questions. I believe that we have a common task in ensuring that we recruit better qualified voters, and that is a challenge. It is also a matter of taking time off from work for a whole day, and the salary is not violent. It's probably easier for those a little disrespectful old leprechauns. I must hurry to make an apology to my mother, who always signs up as the appointed voter. It is, of course, a little easier, once you have left the labour market, to withdraw one day from the calendar in order to be appointed as a voter. However, I believe that we have a common task in trying to recruit better among our Members, who, unfortunately, are becoming fewer and fewer of all parties. That's too bad. I think we have a common task there. But to imagine that we are getting some 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds in the polling stations, who are practically not allowed to do anything at all, they must draw a curtain, it is probably the only practical task we have been told that they must deal with; if they want anything else, it must be under the instruction of an 18-year-old it does not work on us as any miracle cure to get young people to engage with just the least bit more in democracy and government. Perhaps it can even be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121729	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121731	But if you have to look at the specific things that are mentioned, i.e. put up an election poster or hand out a flyer, isn't it roughly in line with making a bucket of coffee or pointing a pencil or getting people in the right line? Is this the activity itself? Is it too easy, or is it too difficult for these 16-17-year-olds, or is it really a discussion about the fear that this is a barn door to lowering voting age? As has already been mentioned, there is only one party in this Parliament that wants to lower the electoral age.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121807	We don't mind 16-year-olds making coffee and pointing pencils. It is not, of course, a task for the prescribed electorate, and if the schools want to hire some helpers for the school officers in connection with an election, we have no problem with it. But juniors, as proposed here in the draft law, are a kind of first step towards 16 years of voting time. I don't see anything but that clutch. It's called pre-arranged voters. The idea is that it is voters who run for election. It is voters who take part in the elections, and it is voters who control the electoral process. That is why it does not make much sense for some non-voters to be present in the polling stations, which must be part of the electoral procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121855	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320121908	I would almost like to bet that there are not many young people between 16 and 17 years of age who are currently watching the Danish Parliament's television from the corners of the Parliamentary Hall, despite the fact that they actually have a great commitment and that they are very interested in what is happening in society. We can see that from studies. We also saw it in the school elections, where a great many attended, and it was a great success. Young people want to get even closer to politicians, they want to get closer to Christiansborg, and they want to get closer to democracy in general. But getting them to turn on Parliament's TV is probably a bigger challenge than that. For as the electoral commission concludes: although young people are interested in politics and social conditions, the political system still seems foreign, exclusive and in agreement. Quote out. This is a problem and it is a problem that we can see reflected in the turnout. It is a fact that Danish and New Danish young people are far from being as industrious as the rest of the population. Only 47%. of the young people from 19 to 29 years of age voted in the local elections in 2009. Less than 30% of the 19-29-year-old new dancers was a ride in the vocal box. This is something that we in the Social Democratic Party would like to improve, and if we are to have more young people in the voting booth, we must involve them in democracy earlier, according to the Election Court Commission. We would like to give them an informal approach to formal democracy. With this bill, young people from 16 to 17 years of age can become acquainted with democracy by providing practical assistance, as has been discussed, as juniors in the electoral elections to the Folketing, elections to the European Parliament and local and regional elections. The local council can therefore choose young people to help with practical tasks on election day. By doing so, we are contributing to the democratic formation of young people aged 16 and 17 who will soon have to take part in their first elections. It is our duty as politicians to maintain contact between young people and democracy, and with the bill we move democracy closer to young people and into their everyday lives. We involve them so that they get democracy a little more under their skin and feel a little more at home in its surroundings. It is a joint responsibility to strengthen young people's understanding and commitment to our society, and with this bill we are taking a sensible democratic step in that direction. For me, it is quite clear that this proposal is beneficial and strengthens our democracy. However, as I said, it is also a joint responsibility to maintain it. Unfortunately, not everyone wants to develop it, and I am very surprised that a party like the Left has resigned from this bill, especially when it is also clear that, as I mentioned in my question, the Left will introduce a new criminal low age for children and young people between 12 and 17 years of age. Why should young people have knowledge of the inside of the courtrooms, but not of the polling rooms? That is simply incomprehensible to me. Young people, on the one hand, say the Left, must be accountable for their actions, but on the other hand, the Left will not really equip them to participate in democracy. Perhaps there are some young people who have now turned on the Danish Parliament's TV in the meantime. In that case, I would like to say to you that when this bill comes into force in the year 2016, you can look forward to becoming a junior order and being part of the cornerstone of democracy. With those comments, the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122323	There are questions. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122327	Thank you, sir. President. Well, I would actually like to sign up for the rapporteur's speech. It is, of course, a difficult task to explain why we think this should be voted on. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur referred many times to the electoral commission which was set up and which made a number of recommendations, and I would like to ask the rapporteur, in good order, who set up the electoral commission. Maybe it was nice enough for people here to know. Then I would also like to ask what the rapporteur mentioned in one of his previous questions to the rapporteur of the Left. It was something about the fact that these juniors will be complementary to the general elections. I would like to ask whether that is correct. Should this mean that if there are 9 elections in a polling station, there may be 2 in addition, such as: Does this mean that the municipality will have to pay allowances for 11 elections instead of the 9 that are normally assessed to be needed to cope with the pressure at the polling place?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122434	This is the way I think the rapporteur, if he were to go down in the draft law, would see that this is an opportunity given in the individual municipality. It is an opportunity for the municipal council to choose to say: you know what, we would actually like to have some juniors in our voting positions. It is an opportunity for young people to get a little closer to democracy, to enter the electoral room and to experience it, and yes, it is as a supplement. And you decide for yourself in the municipality if and how you want to do it. It is not intended, as was wrongly claimed by the rapporteur of the Left, that this should be done to replace them, we should say adults or their work. It's a supplement. This is to address some of the issues that young people feel distanced from our democracy by getting a little closer to it. After all, the electoral commission is quite broadly composed of parties from the Folketing, experts and so on, and who set it up, I am sure you can go after it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122533	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122535	I thought that the rapporteur, as the municipal rapporteur for the Socialists, knew that. It is the case that we have had many commissions set up in Denmark. We have had the Tax Cases Commission; we have had the Labour Market Commission; we have had many different commissions in Denmark. But this commission was actually set up by the Danish Youth Council, because the Folketing could not find a majority to make a electoral commission. That is why I think it is quite fundamental, because the rapporteur is constantly using it to say that the electoral commission recommends and so on. It's usually the case that commissions are set up by the Folketing, but this commission isn't. It's a party post. It is a commission that was set up by the Danish Youth Council because they were sidelined here in the Folketing because they had a proposal to reduce their age to be entitled to vote from 18 years to 16 years. In the light of this, it was decided, so to speak, that it might make good sense to create a electoral commission. This was then rejected in the Folketing, and then they chose to set one up themselves. I just think it is essential to clarify it. The second question is that of the number of elections to be held at each polling station. I read it clearly that it is within the framework. And I find it very difficult to see that it will be the case that in the polling stations they will suddenly choose to have an over-rating. For example, it could be two on top of the nine, which they may be used to having in a given polling place. But that is clearly what the rapporteur thinks should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122706	Thank you for the long statement on the electoral commission. I am sure it has been rewarding for many to follow it. But that doesn't change anything. It does not alter the fact that it is the electoral commission that has been in it, that is. experts, politicians and young people who tell us that although young people are interested in politics, they also experience that it is a little far away and a little alien to them; it is exclusive and characterized by some form of agreement. I think it is good to make such a statement, and it does, of course, mean that it is something that we think I should respond to politically, and I believe that this proposal is part of it. So it is very good that the electoral commission is problematizing some things that we can so politically respond to. I think that's fine, and that's whoever set it up. Then I know that DF is not very interested in local selfgovernment, but it is the case that when this bill is to be implemented in reality, it will be up to a local political decision whether or not they want to have junior elections in their polling stations. And I am very confident that they can decide and will do so in many places around the 98 municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122812	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122814	Now I could understand Mr. Simon Kollerup, that after today the joy of anticipation around the 16-17-year-olds is almost so thick that you can cut it, because now they are sitting around looking forward to becoming juniors. I have to ask the rapporteur to vote in favour of it. I don't think it's something that wants to move a lot. On the other hand, I think that perhaps there are some of the other age limits that we have set, which the young people would rather have us touch on. But my question to Mr. Simon Kollerup is going on where Mr. Simon Kollerup builds the assumption that there will be a great deal of support for being appointed junior when today we find it very difficult to get • if I may say "real adults" to appear. Why does Mr. Simon Kollerup saw that the 16-17-year-olds will be queued to become juniors when what they have to deal with is only very simple, trivial tasks? They are the only ones to be trusted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320122923	One might be fresh and start by saying that one of the other age limits which young people might be trying to tackle could be the criminal low age of 12, which the Left wants to introduce, but leave it at first. Maybe we'll get back to that. With regard to the expectation vote and to how large hordes of young people will now be ready to be juniors, it is, by its very nature, difficult to assess. However, we have a basis in what I have referred to in the past, namely the Election Court Commission, where there have also been young people who have had the opportunity to make themselves known. They say that they really want politics; they want social relations; they care about how our democracy works. But at the same time they say to us through the studies on which the work of the Elections Commission is based that they think it is too agreeable. They think it becomes foreign to them and becomes exclusive. This is the opportunity to open a door to democracy, that they can see the inside of an election room. In fact, I think this is a good opportunity and I hope that a great many people will take advantage of it. I also hope that there will be many municipalities that will have to decide to use this which will take the debate locally and inspire school classes and others to come out and feel democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123034	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has no further questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123045	I would like to make it clear from the outset that I do not believe that the electoral practice we have in Denmark is exclusive to the young potential new voters. In fact, I think we have an excellent electoral law in Denmark as regards when to have the right to vote and how to get involved in democratic principles. I think the debate so far has been somewhat spoiled by the fact that, for example, the Socialist rapporteur has discussed election campaigning, and we others have then tried to discuss electoral procedure. So there are two very different elements in this. One is the one about who hangs election posters and points pencils for whom. It's actually completely outside this discussion. This is about the electoral procedure, in other words how the electoral procedure is to be carried out in practice, which is to be non-political. An election campaign is anything but non-political. I hope we will agree on that here in the Folketing. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. However, I do not believe that one can come here in the Danish Parliament in 2015 and claim that we have an exclusive electoral system in Denmark that does not take care of young people. I think that is simply a wrong premise and I also think it is an assertion which is a little too much for the good side. We cannot support this bill from the government because we believe that we have to have a parallelity because we have an age of authority of 18 years in Denmark. You have to be 18 years old in order to be able to take up mortgages, you have to be 18 years old in order to get married unless you have a consent certificate, you also have to be 18 years old in order to get a driving licence for a car, and you also have to be 18 years old in order, for example, to be able to vote in a parliamentary election. We think that makes sense. We think it is a decent and fair electoral age to have and a just age of authority to have for these various elements. What is then proposed in this draft law is that some who do not have the right to vote should enter and be electoral leaders when elections are held for those who have the right to vote, and then it is no use shaking their heads, I would say to Mr. Simon Kollerup, but that's what it says in here. It says they have to be practical pigs. They must be able to go in and participate in the electoral process, they must meet with the general electoral system and they must participate in the election process at each voting place. I think it would be interesting if the government and the Minister would investigate whether such a thing is legal under youth conventions, because child labour is something we have been very concerned about here in Denmark. It's the same thing as if you went out to a company and said to someone, "You know what, you're supposed to meet at 8:00." 7 on Tuesday, and you're off at 7:00. 20, unless you have to be a helper after 8:00 a.m. 20. That means a working time of 13-14 hours. I do not think that is allowed in many places for young people of 16 years of age. So I think we should have looked at these things quite factually, because I don't think it's fair to do it this way. This is a radical feel good bill. I can understand that. I think it might be very nice to bring something like this to the young voters, but I also think it is something that helps to flicker on the electoral system that we have in Denmark. I do not think it is right that we should have two different kinds of electoral ruler in one polling place, so there are some who have competences in more areas than others. We think it is important that those who are electoral leaders in an election place and those who are prescribed in an election place should, of course, have the same rights and obligations. We think this is quite natural, and we think this is only confusing. Then I would say: if you want young people to take part in this election and sit there for the 13-14 hours and be there, it makes sense if they are over 18 years of age, and I do not have the slightest objection to running some campaigns to get some of the young people from high schools or commercial schools or technical schools or production colleges or anywhere else to be in this, because the polling stations must of course be open, and so are they. We are also seeing today, for example in my own home town, Drying, that there are several school classes coming in during election day to see how the election is being conducted because the election is being held at the same school. It makes sense. But this proposal, in our optics, in the Danish People's Party's optics, does not make any sense. We believe it is important for there to be parallelism. We believe it is important for the electoral system to have the same rights and obligations, and we also believe that we need to have a statute which ensures that the age of authority has been reached in different situations. And there you have to be 18 years in order to be able to implement and participate in an election, and that also means, of course, that you have to be 18 years old in order to be elected in the polling stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123548	This led to a number of questions, and the first is from Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123552	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the main argument for opposing this bill is that there should be a parallel between voting age, age to enter into marriage, age to take a driving licence and so on, which is 18 years old. If this principle is to be fully applied, does the rapporteur also believe that we must be 18 years old in order to be put in prison? That is one question. The second question is a little directed at that, sir. Simon Kollerup said. However, as far as I can hear from the rapporteur, it is claimed that this is an election campaign. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: do we agree that this proposal is not about lowering voting age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123636	No, we do not agree on that. Because I think clearly that if this bill becomes a reality, it will become a slippery path, because you will automatically say: Well, Lord God, if they can now stand and be junior elections to the order, then they can of course also be allowed to vote. And it does not make any sense that they can be pre-arranged, but must not participate in the vote themselves. So the arguments will be turned to the opposite, and then, of course, it will then be part of the debate that will come if a proposal is again put forward here in the Folketing to reduce the age one has to have in order to be able to vote in Danish elections. Then the rapporteur from the Radicals asks with age when, for example, you can get a prison sentence and come in and serve. Well, we have a lot of different authorities in Denmark. Some things you have to do when you're 15, some things you have to do when you're 18, and some other things you have to do when you're 21. And so it is just that we do not want to change the rules on voting age. We think that 18 years is a reasonable age of authority, and we think it is common sense in relation to many of the other authority-related elements that there are; I mentioned the issue of being able to take up a mortgage, enter into marriage or take a driver's license for a passenger car.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123748	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123750	Well, that's fine. Then the principle just happens that there's going to be this connection between these different authorities. But let it go. The second question is that the rapporteur says that this bill is about changing the age of voting. Could the rapporteur not tell me where exactly in the draft law it says that the age of voting must be changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123814	Well, that's the way it is in politics, and that's how I think it's in many places that you have to read what's not there. What I quite basically think is that if this bill is adopted, it will automatically become a slippery path against a proposal being put forward here in the Folketing to reduce the voting age to 16 years, and then this will be used as a reason for saying: 'If you can now be a junior president and participate in the conduct of Danish elections, then you must of course be able to vote for yourself. That will be one of the arguments. I know they will come if such a proposal is made here in the Folketing after this proposal has been adopted. That is why these things are connected and I do not buy the premise that they do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123903	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320123904	In fact, during DF's rapporteur's speech, I had some doubts as to whether this was a hidden camera. But now I looked right out at the cameras, and I see they're still there fortunately. We can see them all, so I assume that it is quite real political positions that are at stake. First, it's parallelism. This is evidently something that applies sometimes and then does not apply at other times: one might ask oneself about the parallelity that DF has gone along with the bourgeois parties to want a juvenile court and thus also a criminal low age of 12 years. Why is there no parallelism there for one to be allowed to look into an election room? That's one. The second is that I have to make something clear to the rapporteur, that is to say, that this should be about them having to cope with the implementation of a choice. No, it's some people who need to sniff out the election, be with the mood. There are orders to carry out an election. Fortunately, however, the rapporteur himself has some good experiences with home school. I think he said it made sense when a school class came in and saw an election room. It's exactly the same thing we want here. We will give the municipalities the opportunity for young people throughout the country to come along and be juniors and to experience the atmosphere that is there, because I agree with the rapporteur that makes a great deal of sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124021	Is it to be understood that the Social Democrats are willing to pay an entire school class to go in and sniff out an electoral act? It is therefore a completely new political agenda for me that we have here in the Folketing. But that is actually what the questioner is saying, namely that we need to open up the possibility for people to come in and look into an election room. That is what the rapporteur has just said. This is already possible today, and there are thousands of Danish school pupils who, at each election in Denmark, come in and see the polling rooms from within. There are thousands of Danish children who are with their parents in when they cast their votes at different elections. I think the questioner himself may have been once with his parents. That is the way it has been practiced for generations here in Denmark. Now there is a concrete proposal where you want to give people money for it, and that is where I stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124115	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124116	Now I simply cannot keep up with why DF will vote against this. I think that one argument after another falls to the ground with a bang. Now it is that you have the opportunity to pay a fee, just as you give to adults. That is the last clue of an argument on which it is now based. You have to find out how to do it locally, and this is going to be a really exciting local political debate. I know that the leaders of the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party don't do much with the municipal autonomy. However, we do believe that there can be a really exciting local political debate about organising this to get young people into the polling rooms, not only to sniff, but also to help with some practical things and to be part of the day of the election. It is not to cope with the implementation of an election, but to experience getting closer to democracy. We may not agree, but I still do not understand the fact that the rapporteur, who is standing on the floor, wants to reduce the age of criminals to 12 years, while we do not want to help the possibility that there may be juniors aged 16 and 17. The rapporteur may have to inform me a little about how one can take such a different view when preaching parallelism from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124230-2	It must therefore be for the rapporteur's own account that my arguments should have fallen apart. I think it is the questioner who has some rather divergent reasons for motivating why we want to vote in favour of this bill. The last one, and that was the most absurd thing, was that you wanted to honor the young people just to come in and sniff out how an election takes place in an election room. That was literally what the questioner was asking, sir. Simon Kollerup, said that they must be paid to look into an election room. Well it can be seen in the minutes this afternoon, I should like to say hello and say that it has been in here for many years, so it is not out of the question that that is what the rapporteur said. We in the Danish People's Party do not want money for this. In fact, we believe that democracy must be created in a different way, and that is one of them. know that the school teachers take the students in and show them how they do it in an election room. Like I said, they're gonna go sniff. And, of course, we also have parents who take on a parental task by also trying to take their children with them and show them how a choice is made in an election room. It's been like this for generations. With this proposal, you seem to want to award them 1,160 kroner. to go in and sniff. And I can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124344	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124347	Thank you. I also have a lot of questions about the fact that I cannot reconcile the rapporteur's arguments either. But I think we should really concentrate a little on what this bill is about, because I think so much confusion is being created. Will the rapporteur confirm that the juniors alone must carry out duties of a practical nature and solely on instruction and under the appropriate supervision of electoral directors or appointed voters? If the rapporteur can confirm this, and the rapporteur will have to, because that is what the draft law says, then the rapporteur must also admit that all that talk with young people can suddenly come in and take in some tasks they should not take over, etc. is nonsense. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is what the draft law is about, and nothing else at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124449	In any event, I can confirm that, as Mr. Finn Sørensen says it's nonsense. Sir. Finn Sørensen says that this will mean, for example, that, as a proper electoral order during an electoral procedure, as was also read out from the bill, the junior elections will be supervised by the members of the committee. This means that those who are elected must monitor both the proper conduct of the electoral process and, at the same time, ensure that those who are junior elected and who need to be paid for it also perform their roles according to the sketch which is clear. I don't think that's a fair way of doing that. I also believe that this is helping to muddle the entire electoral process. It must therefore be the case that we insist that we have to be 18 years old in order to be able to carry out an election. It must also be the case that you have to be 18 years old to be entitled to vote. The two things must be parallel, they must follow each other. We in the Danish People's Party think this is good and common sense. We think this is the right and the only way to make a choice. This proposal is such a feel good proposal, as I said from the outset, where a number of parties here in Parliament would like to signal something. I have every respect for that. But I just think that when you introduce young people to free democratic elections in Denmark, you should not do so by starting to give them money to go in and sniff in the polling rooms, as the Socialist rapporteur said. That is what was said. There I have to say that this bill is helping to muddle the electoral process, which is why we simply cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124622	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124625	After all, it is difficult to argue against sharp analysis, which says that this proposal is a fittihut proposal which, as the rapporteur of the Left said, is nonsense and so on. It is, of course, difficult to argue against the fact that it is obviously all nonsense. But what I said wasn't something I made up myself. I just read from the bill, read what it's all about. It is very clearly described that the juniors must give practical help. I quote again: 'The juniors may carry out only duties of a practical nature and only on instruction and under the supervision of electoral directors or appointed electorate. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the purpose of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124715	Well, of course I can confirm it. That is also why we cannot support the legislative proposal. Why should they be required to supervise certain junior elections, while at the same time ensuring that the elections take place in accordance with the rules which we helped to revise in the previous legislative proposal on the agenda? That's what's fundamental to this. Then there is also the parallelism that I am trying to hold on to and which is apparently a great confusion for the red wing here in the Folketing. One obviously does not understand what parallelism is, but it is, therefore, that there are different levels of authority in Denmark. We just want to hold on to them. There we think that 18 years is an excellent age of authority for, among others. to be able to vote in elections and therefore also, of course, to participate in elections. We think that is common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124802	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320124822	Thank you. Yesterday I had three interns from Askov Afterschool internship. They were with me for meetings and debates from 8:00 a.m. 8:00 a.m. until 8:00 a.m. 8:00 in the evening. It was Josephine, Sofie and Christian who are all 16 years old. They're on their way home on the train now, and they've actually promised me to turn on parliamentary television on the way home to follow this debate. I showed them the junior order bill that we are discussing today and asked them to spend some time reading it and debating it. I then asked if they would like to be juniors, and there was an unconditional answer: yes, we would like that. Even if they were not paid 750 kroner. For it, and even if they were not allowed to participate in certain parts of the electoral process itself. However, it was not allowed to count as absenteeism at school, they said very responsibly. Then I asked: Why do you want to be in the junior order? And there was the answer quite clearly that it would actually be super exciting and that it is important to be able to help with some of the most important aspects of democracy, namely the electoral process itself. They actually proposed to go further and say that the local student councils in the schools and in the youth education courses in the municipality in question might also play a role in these elections in the future. In fact, I was very pleased to hear that these 16-year-olds actually wanted and could participate in democracy, including when it comes to making coffee, putting tables, getting people into the right cows and pointed pencils. So some of what some here may have referred to as some of the more boring work was not something that discouraged these young people. Fortunately, today all young people in Denmark are used to being involved in student councils, sports clubs, school elections, election campaigns and all sorts of good things. Even at home, I think most young people are used to getting involved. You ask about their attitude and you take them into the decision on where to go on holiday and things like that. That is why I also think it is a very good idea to give them the opportunity to sniff out what an electoral procedure is. It is in line with the democratic upbringing that we are giving our young people today. Against this background, the Radical Left can strongly support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125043	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as rapporteur for the SF. There are no questions, you can leave the platform. Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125055	Thank you. I'll be brief, unlike everyone else. SF supports, of course, that young people should be given the opportunity to help when elections are to be held. This will be a great democratic gain for young people and for society as a whole. The democratic formation of our young people is important and something for which we politicians must take responsibility. Then I am pleased that the tasks of the junior administration are confined to tasks of a practical nature and that they receive instruction and assistance along the way. It is important that the juniors do not replace the adults, but are a supplement. The objective of democratic formation is crucial, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125139	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125157	Thank you. I would also like to be brief. I think that's a really good suggestion. It is a good offer to young people who would like to take a little interest in the democratic electoral process, and if it can also lead to their even being interested in being elected when they get old enough for the things that are not being tampered with by this draft bill, then it can contribute to a sensible and probably in many places necessary generational change among the electoralists, some of whom, quite many of them may be as gray at the top as myself. So that's a very good suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125230	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125237	The bill will allow municipalities to associate juniors with the electoral process. Junior leaders are young people of 16 or 17 years of age who can be practical in the electoral process. I imagine they can pick up new coffee, fill up the candy bowl at the election tables and stuff like that, and we support that. We do so for a number of reasons. If there are young people who will find it interesting to participate in this, I think they can make an experience of it. There are young people in this country who are interested in politics. They join the Danish Social Democratic Youth, Conservative Youth, Radical Youth, Liberal Alliance Youth, etc. and participate in election campaigns, distribute leaflets and put up election posters, and they can also like the older members of the parties have a desire to participate in and contribute to the actual holding of the elections. They can't vote, they shouldn't vote, but just being there and experiencing what the mood is like and walking around a little can be an experience for them. It has been said in this debate that if you support this bill, it is because you have a secret plan that voting age should be reduced to 16 years. As far as the Liberal Alliance is concerned, I can completely deny that. We do not want to reduce the voting age to 16 years. We support this on the basis of the arguments I have put forward here and not because we want to lower the age of voting. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125423	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth, Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125429	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party does not support the draft law, and we do not, because we believe that being organised is a task of authority. It is a task where you monitor that things are going right. You have to be a helper and a guide. We think that you must have some experience and maturity in order to be able to do so. We do not think this is appropriate to leave it to 16-17 years old. Then, as I hear some argue, they could have some practical tasks. But I think that is misunderstood. If you've been involved in electoral acts, you know that there are cops to handle those everyday tasks. It is a well-known matter for those who have come to terms with it, and I assume that everyone here has found that there are very, very strict rules about what to do and what to advise on in a polling room. I do not think it is fair to expect 16 to 17-year-olds to be in those rules, and therefore there will be a great risk of them being broken. There are, of course, very strict rules on this being a non-political electoral act. Then there is the idea of wanting to use this as a means of providing the order, because some people say it is a problem, but at the same time they have refuted it because they say that it is not really pre-arranged and real electoral leaders, but some have to be there as a supplement. It has to be practical pigs. But then it is not less to be recruited. So this is a contradictory proposal. We think that, on the bottom line, it is a slippery path towards lowering the voting age. We don't think so. We believe that when it comes to deciding on the most important aspects of democracy, which is the day of the election, one must be of authority. Then you have to be 18 years old. And there should be a connection between voting and 18 years of age and watching that it is done correctly and properly; the age limit must be the same. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125635	There's a question. Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125638	Thank you. Now the Radical Left does not see this proposal primarily as a purely practical measure. In fact, we see this as a rather important proposal for involving our young people in democracy. It's actually that simple. But I would really like to ask how it is that the rapporteur thinks that this is a task which must be 18 years old, that is to say, of authority, in order to be able to carry out the following task, and I quote from the draft law: 'The juniors must carry out only duties of a practical nature and solely on instruction and under the supervision of electoral directors or under the authority of the appointed electorate. ▪ What makes one have to be 18 years old in order to carry out those tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125722	Now maybe it's the third or the fourth time that it's being read from there. Each time there is a clear statement from the platform, and I should also like to make that point. This is about the Radical Left claiming that this is a way to let the young people of 16-17 years of age become acquainted with democracy. That's bullshit. After all, it is a minimal number of people who will get a share in it. Therefore, one cannot say that this is the way people are now trying to involve people widely. It's a lie, it's a spin, it's a shine picture of reality. That is not what is happening. And apparently you need someone to go make coffee and pointed pencils. I think you should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125800	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125802	If we had to follow that reasoning, Mr President, the rapporteur would have done so. Mike Legarth, so also think that what the others who take part in these polling stations are doing is pure spin, doesn't make any sense and doesn't mean anything to democracy? This applies when you sit there like an old elf, as one of the previous rapporteur said, or a young political asset. So it is also spin, and it has nothing to do with democracy either. That must be the natural consequence of what the rapporteur is arguing for here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125830	What kind of bullshit is that? I've never heard a more strange conclusion to what I'm saying. What I am trying to say and to uphold is that in the case of those who sit and control and ensure that everything is done according to the rules and regulations there is, one must have some expectation that they can carry out the task. It is not appropriate to take someone in and use that day, which is the day of celebration of democracy, and then make it some kind of apprenticeship exercise, and then we have to see how things are going and one thing with the other. I have the greatest respect for those who take part in democracy and participate in and carry out this action, and I believe that if, moreover, we do something to involve our members in both municipal and national elections, we can find a lot of people who want to take a day in the service of democracy and be present at the polling place and help them to do what they have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125925	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320125932	Thank you for one, I think one can safely say thorough and good debate on this part of the legislative package which follows on from the evaluation of the municipal and regional elections and the European Parliament elections. It is, of course, a great deal that it seems to be able to upset, although we know very well that, unlike the previous proposal, we do not look at it exactly the same way. But I must admit that I had not foreseen a debate of the epic dimensions that we have seen here, where the waves have gone high. As other speakers have also said, it is, after all, a question of giving local authorities the opportunity to recruit young people 16 to 17 years of age who are not yet entitled to vote to provide practical assistance in the electoral and referendum elections. There has been some discussion about what can actually be done, and this has been taken into account in the legislative proposal. It is in the special remarks on page 6, where there are, among other things: I should like to mention the involvement of voting-boxes in checking before the vote starts, assistance in running queues at the voting-room, holding curtains so as to check that voting-rooms are vacant and have working writing-rooms, holding doors, providing assistance in the practical conduct of voting-box voting, pointed pencils, taking part in the rough sorting of ballot papers, etc. It is therefore completely delineated, and I was a little amazed when I understood from the rapporteur of the Left that it seemed okay if you were employed to help the janitor, but not the electoralists, and where the fundamental difference in it starts and ends may well be a little difficult to understand. We may then disagree a little in this Chamber, but if you look at the answers to the hearings, you can see that it is apparently not something that has spread to the rest of society, because there you are very pleased with the proposal. The National Association of Municipalities is very much in favour of this, and it is after all they who have to decide whether or not to introduce it locally. So does the Danish Youth Council, and this is perhaps so important, not least in view of the fact that younger members of parliament have been drawn in as a witness of truth in relation to whether it is relevant or not • I think the rapporteur of the Left felt that it was crucial to reach the election party. There I may choose to refer to the Danish Youth Council as a witness of truth for young people, and in the hearing answer it says, and I quote: "DUF therefore supports the good proposal to introduce the function of junior appointed in the conduct of elections. This will enable 16-17-year-old citizens in Denmark to gain first-hand insight into the basic pillar of representative democracy in the elections. DUF believes that direct and personal experience in holding the elections will strengthen democratic self-confidence and support for representative democracy among young people 16-17 years of age and will support future support for democracy among future generations of voters. In addition, it is mentioned that it is not only those who participate, but also their associations, who in this way have a connection with the crown jewel of democracy, namely the electoral process. So in this way, I am at least pleased to note that the parties that were behind the agreement to table this bill continue to support it. We have the support of all those who look at it from the outside. There is no critical consultation answer, and then we must live by receiving a little criticism in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130301	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130317	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130338	Thank you. In connection with the examination of Bill L 156, the proposal for a law amending the law on outdoor pig farming, the Left will support it. The bill provides for the repeal of the revision clause, § 18a, of the law on the outdoor holding of pigs, which was to clarify the meaning of § 12 of the same law. The proposal must accept that pigs kept outdoors during periods of frost do not have permanent access to water at night, provided that this does not pose an animal welfare problem. We in the Left think it is positive that there is at last a clarification of the importance of Article 12 of the law on outdoor pig teams. It is a matter which has been dragging on for a long time, since new studies have on several occasions led to a postponement of the position on the importance of the requirement. With the research results from DCA, National Centre for Food and Agriculture at Aarhus University, it has finally been possible to make an assessment of the needs of outdoor pigs for access to water at night during periods of frosty weather. And it turns out that when there is no permanent access to water at night during periods of frosty weather, it does not pose an animal welfare problem. It is important that we now make this clear in the legislation, and it is important to clarify the requirement. And this is so important for the organic production of pigs and other pig production in the open, because in practice a demand for permanent access to water 24 hours a year throughout the year would make pig production impossible in the open. That is why we should not make such a demand, and that is why the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130520	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130525	I must say straight away that the Social Democratic Party also supports the bill. And the purpose of the revision clause is, of course, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen explained, was to uncover the needs of outdoor pigs for access to water at night during periods of frosty weather. I think this is the third time that I have been rapporteur on this matter in the short time I have been in the Committee on Food and Agriculture, and we have been waiting twice for those studies to be carried out. They have not been implemented due to a lack of frost. So it may have been an indication that the problem is not so urgent, but it can of course be. We are in no way prepared to experiment with animal welfare. But it is now established that it is possible for outgoing pigs to last overnight without running water available, and that is what is crucial, i.e. running water during the night hours. So we fully support the Minister's proposal in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130635	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130650	Then we are here with bill 156, and this is a challenge that we have seen over a long period of time. The production form with free-range pigs has given a challenge in relation to running water, drinking water in night hours with hard frost. Therefore, there has also been work to find out what it is for a solution that can make the pigs get running water. What you have ended up with is that animal welfare is now being seriously reduced by this bill, which comes from the Minister for Food. Now it is said that free-range pigs should not have access to running water, drinking water during the night hours. It comes as a surprise to the Danish People's Party that it is the solution you choose instead of finding a technical solution that allows the outgoing pigs to have drinking water. Drinking water must be available during animal transport, but one could imagine that the next proposal would then have to be removed. We in the Danish People's Party certainly could not imagine that. We are therefore very surprised that we are now seeing a proposal which goes only one way, and that is against animal welfare. Here we choose a solution that does not take into account what is at stake: that pigs should have access to drinking water. And what we can see when we look at the answers to the hearings is that the Animal Ethics Council clearly says that they recommend that the interpretation of the rules should maintain the requirement that pigs should have access to water at all times. It is the same way that it has been formulated in relation to the transport of pigs, and we in the Danish People's Party are very pleased that you have the wording that there must always be drinking water during transports. That is why, of course, we also believe that this should be maintained during production, and we are surprised that a food minister who looks up on animal welfare makes a proposal here that goes in exactly the opposite direction, that is to say that open-air pigs should no longer have access to drinking water during the night hours. We must, of course, take note of that. But I can say straight away that the Danish People's Party cannot vote for a deterioration of this kind in the animal welfare field, and certainly not in the case of loose pigs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130910	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320130916	I think it is important to have complete clarity as to what this matter is about. It is about whether running water should be available during the frosty period, i.e. whether to place a burden on those who do us the duty to send animals outside, that is, those who make extra areas so that animals can come out and spend money on animals being outside. It is especially the ecologists who give the pigs the opportunity to get out. Because there may be times of frosty weather a very rare time when animals cannot get running water at night, should we ask them to install very large and expensive plants? This could mean that they can't actually send these pigs outside that they can't have their production at all. If I was a pig, I know what I'd rather be outside, even if there could be a single frosty night, where I had to wait three or four hours for my thirst, or if I'd stand inside a stable and be tied up or be strapped. So I don't think we should impose on those who are actually making this great effort on animal welfare, as much as it would be to have to set up these plants, that they may not even be able to sustain their production. So we don't do animal welfare a favor. So it is all about ensuring that there is a balance, ensuring that animals can continue to be kept outside, and when we have the university's word that it is not harmful to the welfare of animals, that there are a few hours in frosty weather a rare time when they do not have direct access to running water, then I think it is right to do so. Then I do not think that the Folketing should go in and impose a very great additional burden on those who actually guarantee animal welfare. So the Radical Left can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131100	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a single questioner, sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131105	This is quite interesting because, as the rapporteur says, animals can do without water 3-4 hours. In other words, if there is a bill from the Minister for Food, which deals with animal transport in about 3-4 hours, then we need, for example, a bill from the Minister for Food. No longer be running water? The rapporteur says that this has now been proven. This has been asked by experts, and the answer has been given that animals can do without running water for 3-4 hours. Why, then, are there other areas where we are very determined that there should be running water? And why is it that in this way we are also helping to undermine ecology? Now it's the organic pigs that don't need running water. We have just had a proposal that you can fertilize section 3 areas, i.e. damage groundwater, as long as you have organic cows or similar walks on these areas. In fact, I think that we are doing the ecology a disservice with these many proposals that are constantly coming forward. But can the rapporteur confirm that 3-4 hours without water can be accepted?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131203	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131204	What we are discussing today is whether pigs that go outside, which are not in a stressful situation packed together in an animal transport, can manage to wait a few hours for water. Again, sir. René Christensen has to answer whether we should ask the ecologists to make a plant. I think it could cost up to $300,000. Thinks sir. René Christensen himself saw that we continue to want people who convert to organic use? That's sir. René Christensen and the Danish People's Party, who do not care about animal welfare and do not care about the ecologists, if they want to make such a strict demand on them. I am sure that ecologists will do everything in their power to ensure that these animals do the best they can. If you want to say in this Parliament that they must be able to cope precisely with this situation in any situation, even if they consider that it will mean the installation of a large and very expensive plant, then it is Mr. René Christensen and Dansk Folkeparti, who do not want the animals well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131256	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131257	This is the kind of slippery slope you're looking for in relation to animal welfare. Now there is one area where there should be no access to running water 24 hours a day. What about other areas? There you have to have access to running water 24 hours a day. If we come out and do checks in the barn and the drinking water stuff doesn't work, then it's actually the case that you get remarks. Will it now be the case that as long as it has worked in the last 3-4 hours, as the rapporteur says, there are no comments? 'Cause I guess that's the way it has to be. Why is it that an organic cow can walk on an area where it is fertilised without destroying groundwater? Now organic pigs can also go without water without harming animal welfare. Will it not soon also be transferred to conventional farming?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131343	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131344	No, and I am surprised that the Danish People's Party cannot tell the difference between being a pig who goes outside on a large area and sleeps at night, and who then a rare time in frosty weather may have to wait a few hours to get running water, and then the conditions that animals who are in a stable permanently must have, or animals that are in an animal transport. Well, that's fixing the bakery for blacksmith if you can't tell the difference between the two things. It just puzzles me that the Danish People's Party doesn't think it's important that the pigs come out and that it should happen in a way so that those who have these pigs shouldn't go from house and home and drop having organic use in Denmark. I simply cannot understand that should be the new position of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131427	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131441	24,000 piglets die every day. At the moment, we have talks with the Minister for Food about, among other things. the use of antibiotics, which is high because piglets are taken from the sow too soon. We often discuss how we can also have conventional farming in Denmark, but with better conditions and better animal welfare for example. Son of a bitch. I do not necessarily think it is a completely easy task today with this bill, because it is quite clear that on the one hand we have to look at animal welfare, access to drinking water also in frosty weather, and on the other hand we would like to see it done by the SF, at least, far more pigs outside. We believe that there are major animal welfare problems in a great many pig stalls around here. There's far too little room. The lakes are bred, so they get very, very many piglets. In this respect, I believe that the animal welfare impact, as Aarhus University also says, could potentially be that the pig will have less time without water in the field, does not measure up to the animal welfare problems that are in many large stables around. We want to help ensure that many more pigs come out, so we are positive about this. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to look at low-technology solutions in order to tackle this problem if necessary, namely that in frosty weather there may be frozen plants. Could it be a solution to set up solar cells in the field, which, through this pump, could ensure that the water doesn't freeze? I do not know whether this can be done, but I think we can at least try to see whether there are low-technology solutions to ensure that the water does not freeze. But I think this also shows the difference that's in here. I also think it was a strange comment that came from DF's rapporteur, who I know is concerned with animal welfare. But that you don't want to be part of this, where, in frosty weather, the pigs may have to do without water for a few hours, that you think it's better that we have a lot of pigs standing inside constantly in very little space, I just don't understand. I think it is fair enough to say that there may be a few hours where the pigs have no access to water, but if we put it against it that they have to stand inside all the time, then I simply think we can say nothing other than that of course we must ensure that they can get out. So with those comments, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131749	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131752	Now it is rare in this Parliament that we roll back animal welfare in this way, but we do so with this proposal under the current Minister for Food. And one of the arguments for rolling back this animal welfare is that it is associated with financial costs that will be difficult to bear for each producer. So here you don't look at animal welfare at all, you only look at the individual producer. Now I've actually been out visiting a farmer with open-air pigs and seeing how to solve this by putting a wire around his snake, so power comes in. This can be done for relatively little money, and then you can make sure that there can also be running water at night. What is being said here and now is that there is no requirement that there should be running water at night. Then you could imagine that there are some who also do not choose these low-practical, low-cost solutions in order to make sure that there can be running water at night. So we are just saying quite calmly that we are surprised that there is such a proposal now coming from a minister who wants to do something for animal welfare. And what do we see here? We see a proposal that goes entirely the opposite way. After all, there are plenty of ecologists and farmers who have open-air pigs and who do everything to ensure that their pigs naturally have running water at night.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131901	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320131902	First of all, I would like to thank you for that specific example. It's exactly the kind of thing I think could be good to get on the field just to give some ideas on how to secure running water. I do not agree that we are rolling anything back because if we look at the consequences of not doing anything, what could it be? It may be that there are far fewer pigs going to go outside where they would feel much better than if the alternative is that they are inside a stable. I have no doubt, sir. René Christensen sincerely believes that when he looks at what it could have as a consequence that one could do without water for a few hours. But I do not agree with Mr. René Christensen in that the alternative is better. And there I think we're just interpreting the situation differently. I'm afraid we're putting an end to the fact that more and more pigs are coming out. But I also agree with Mr. René Christensen in that if you let your pigs go out, it's probably because you think it's good for them. That is something you want to do, and that is why you want to do everything you can to ensure that they are well and that they have access to drinking water running. So I think that is both the example, Mr. René Christensen came along and other good ideas on how to solve it in a relatively cheap way that we should have in play.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132019	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132027	I find it a little boring that the Danish People's Party has left the pragmatic and result-oriented line on animal welfare issues that it stood for when I came to the Folketing and where we had many excellent cases, we cooperated with Mr. Christian H. Hansen about, among others. Actually, this case. For it was the case that the then VK government had in fact intended to introduce the state of access to running water all the time, regardless of how much frost there was. And back then it was a little colder in the winter than it is now, so it was probably a bigger challenge. We then agreed with the Danish People's Party that this was a really bad idea, because our opinion was that it would make it significantly more expensive to produce pigs using outdoor teams. Therefore, we would destroy that form of production and thus roll back huge animal welfare advances. Fortunately, together with the then opposition and the Danish People's Party, there was a majority in favour of pressure from the government to accept that an investigation should be initiated in order to revise that provision. And to date, in practice, the situation has been as it will be when we adopt this bill. There's no change. On the other hand, you have to admit that, and that can be a cause for concern, sir. René Christensen, more and more pigs actually experience spending time outside. And the few winters where there is still frost in Denmark of importance, they can then experience for a few hours not having access to water. I am quite prepared, in fact, for us to have a thorough study in committee of what low-technology and low-cost solutions exist and to see what this will actually cost and mean for the production of free-range pigs. Because, of course, we should not just do it because the Minister for Food is coming and saying that this would be an economic disaster for agriculture and that we should therefore make reliefs. Of course we shouldn't. We need to look into this thoroughly, and I am happy to contribute to it. However, I have to say that I rather perceive the position of the Danish People's Party here, which may be characterised by the less animal welfare problem, the more fundamental is the Danish People's Party. When it comes to major animal welfare problems, which involve a great many animals, it is also very expensive to do something about it, and then you may be back in, I would not say the constructive, result-oriented pragmatism, but the pure pragmatism, where you often choose nothing to do. And there I may think that the result-oriented pragmatism is a better idea anyway. Just to sir. René Christensen and if there should be others not a moment in doubt: Enhedslisten will be happy to create more favourable conditions for organic production so that we can promote that conversion. We see basic organic production as better for nature and the environment and better for animal welfare than the conventional one, and that is why we must give the organic form of production as good opportunities as we possibly can. Then, too, I think it is important to say, of course, to work constantly to improve the way organic production is produced, both when it comes to climate, environmental impacts and when it comes to animal welfare. That is why I think that an end to this could be that we started further activities and further work in order to ensure a solution to this problem. I admit that animal welfare is a problem; it is that once every three years, or how much it can be, a few hours may be subjected to discomfort. It is not so bad compared to ordinary pig production, but of course it is not good enough, and we must, of course, work to do something about that. But that means, for example. We must also ensure that when financial law agreements are drawn up with the governments with which financial law agreements can now be drawn up, money is also set aside for such purposes. And if I can understand the Danish People's Party's statements here today in such a way that it is something that the Danish People's Party will give priority to, then we will be in the happy situation that whatever government we get, we can be reasonably sure that the support party that is for that government will continue to work on this challenge also in the long term. But here and now I think that the best thing to do for animal welfare is to vote in favour of this bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132450	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132453	This revision provision is not new. I myself have been involved in saying several times that we could continue. What is interesting here is that you say that now you remove the requirement that there should be access to running water and you add the wording in periods of frosty weather. What I think is the experience today is that there are very few days a year where there is no running water. In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur on this. We would have liked to have had a dialogue on what technical solutions would then be able to do, that is what worries me and worries the Danish People's Party, is that a minister who looks up about animal welfare is now coming up with a proposal where only the economics are involved, and that is that they say: this is going to be too expensive. But I have seen solutions that have not been very expensive, that have not given rise to any particular challenges and that have been made entirely voluntary, because I think, as the rapporteur also says, the vast majority of these farmers actually want there to be running water all the time. The second is also expensive in working hours and other places where you have to drive water to the areas. That's why the timing is wrong. We have not had the debate on what technical options might be able to solve this, in order to maintain the good animal welfare, which the rapporteur probably agrees with there should be. It would probably be best if we could have a requirement that there was running water for animals 24 hours a day if we could also do so within a financial framework that was manageable. That is how we claim without having discussed it that that solution might have been found together with Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132619	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132621	Well, I just wanted to say that this isn't a new case, which Mr. René Christensen also knows well. I can, among other things. document that it was one of the first cases that I actually had a close collaboration with the Danish People's Party on in the Danish Parliament. And it is not because it took awful many years for me to come to parliament before it happened the first time. Now there have not been so many agreements, so it should not sound as if every day we go and make agreements around the corridors; there is no need to create unrest, either here or there. However, this is not a new issue, and it can therefore be said that there has been a very long time to discuss whether there are low-technology solutions that will enable this to be done. But it is clear that if there are things in committee that show that there is something I just have to say that, on the basis of this, it is our view that this bill should be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132712	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132714	I am very pleased about this, and at least the Danish People's Party will also use the committee work to check whether it is the right way to go just rolling back. Because when you read the argument to do so here, there is both the economic aspect and I will not deny it, and the Danish People's Party has also used it in other cases. But also the problem that you keep saying that these hours at night, which animals can do without water, and as a rapporteur from the Radicals said earlier, were 3-4 hours, since the bill is far more hours. There you could imagine that it was something that could go on and that there are some who could say: well, yes, but now we have set such a limit that sets a precedent for it to be expensive. I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party will not go out of this. We're super happy that we've got it that way, among other things. on animal transports and other are access to running water all the time. We would have liked that to be such a pervasive phrase that was when we talk about animal welfare. It is easy to deal with, it is easy to check and that is what you are doing in the legislative proposal that we are dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132812-2	I would just like to say that for the Enhedslisten it is absolutely essential that conditions for the production of pigs in the open country should not deteriorate. We think this is really, really crucial. And why is that? It is because it is in itself a huge step forward in animal welfare, whereas the animal transport that we still have is in itself a huge animal welfare problem. And the huge animal welfare problem must not be further increased by not having access to water either. But I am glad that we have a clear statement from the Danish People's Party that if anyone should get the idea to go ahead with this idea and spread it to other areas, the Danish People's Party is also opposed, and then we probably also have a majority against it in the years I can even look forward to in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132858	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320132905	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think that this debate on animal welfare is out of proportion and is not about common sense. For what we are discussing here today is that, on the basis of some research from the National Centre for Food and Agriculture, it has been estimated that it can be accepted that pigs kept outdoors during periods of frost do not have permanent access to water at night, provided, moreover, that a concrete assessment must always be made in each case to ensure that pigs have access to sufficient water. Against this background, it is therefore proposed that the revision clause in section 18a be repealed. That sounds like real common sense. In the Liberal Alliance, we want to provide better framework conditions for both conventional and organic farmers, and therefore it makes very good sense to repeal this provision. The Liberal Alliance can therefore support the proposal and, at the same time, I should like to welcome and say from the rapporteur of the Conservatives, who could not be here today, that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133017	Thank you. Since Mrs Mette Bock has also spoken on behalf of the Conservatives, we move on to the Minister for Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133026	Thank you to the rapporteurs, and thank you for the very broad support for the legislative proposal, which, fortunately, is due to the very thorough preparatory work that has been carried out. I am both surprised and not surprised that Mr. René Christensen is opposed to this proposal. I am surprised because, after all, I thought there was a grain of decency and love in the way the Danish People's Party looks at animal welfare, but on the other hand it was not surprised because it is a pattern that emerges. Let me first try to elaborate on what I see as good animal welfare, something which, fortunately, is reflected in Danish animal protection legislation. Good animal welfare is about several things. It is about keeping animals free from pain, free from discomfort, free from hunger, free from thirst, but it is also about freedom to live out its natural behavior pattern. It is important for all animals, but it is especially important for such intelligent animals as pigs, animals that will naturally use 80-90 per cent. of their awake time walking and rooting in the earth are very curious animals. That is why, of course, it is one of the greatest animal welfare improvements you can make at all when you give a pig access to even walk outdoors and root in the soil etc. Does this mean that there are certain disadvantages and discomfort in being outside? Yes, there may be sometimes, it gets hot in the summer and cold in the winter and all these things, but an animal can now handle that, and I don't think anyone will doubt that it is better animal welfare to be an organic pig than a conventional pig. When I say something, I'm gonna have to straighten myself out anyway, 'cause apparently there is. Apparently, there's sir. René Christensen and the Danish People's Party, who, with this, which I will consider to be the biggest frontal attack I have seen on ecology, in the time I have been a minister, is trying to undermine the economy when it comes to producing pigs that go out in Denmark. A crew would easily be subject to an investment cost of about 1.8 million, with a requirement to ensure 24 hours a day drinking water. kr. It is clear that it is a huge amount of money to do something about a thing that I would regard as a small negative animal welfare effect, which would potentially mean huge economic burdens and perhaps even that it is not at all profitable to have pigs in that way. This is in line with what the Danish People's Party has said in the past. The Danish People's Party could not support the proposal that has been put into effect on the loose drift of lakes in Denmark, which the Animal Protection has called the greatest improvement in animal welfare in 15 years, and where, as it were, we set the lakes free so that they no longer have to stand firmly half their lives. The Danish People's Party could not support this. This simply underlines that for Dansk Folkeparti small things are comparable to a pig having access 24 hours a day all day, and this is therefore more important than a pig walking freely. Well, if you were to put yourself in the pig's place, it's always dangerous with that anthropomorphism, as it is called when you attribute human qualities to animals, but try to do the experiment anyway. René Christensen: If you were a pig, you'd rather follow your own suggestion and stand firmly and securely follow your own policy and be clamped down 50%. of your life, but thus have access to clean water, than to walk freely outside and there sometimes, when it was frosty, could be a few hours where it might be problematic to get water? I think the answer is quite obvious, and frankly I am shocked and find it difficult to see it as anything other than an example of the fact that the Danish People's Party is going to have to run a little politically, making comments such as a minister who looks up on animal welfare. No, not a minister who looks up for animal welfare, but a minister who has made some clear animal welfare improvements, which the Danish People's Party has either opposed or has not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133441	Thank you. You don't talk directly to Members. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133446	I should like to start by saying that the Danish People's Party did not vote against the proposal on loose lakes. What is interesting is the ecological issue here, and Enhedslisten and the Minister have also mentioned that it is very important. In fact, it is also for the Danish People's Party, which is why we are afraid that this government is doing the ecology a disservice. First of all, we come up with a proposal that says that we must stop manure in section 3 because it destroys drinking water, but then you say: you can do that if you are an ecologist. So some people listen to it when the government says so. When the government says that organic pigs should not have access to drinking water at night, as other pigs should, then you send out wrong signals. After all, the Minister also recognises that it is a small negative animal welfare effort that is taking place here. In other words, the Minister recognizes what I am saying, i.e. roll back something. Well, it's a little negative animal welfare effort. You may not roll back much, but you roll back animal welfare. And that just confirms to me that the Minister talks a lot about animal welfare, but when it comes down to it and we see the proposals in this Chamber, it goes in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133555	Sir. René Christensen has put forward a series of arguments on the consequences if one allows a situation in ecology where it simply will not be possible for the animals to have drinking water 24 hours a day, so that there may be examples that it will be necessary, otherwise all organic production will suffer, and thus massively beyond animal welfare, and that if you allow it, what will be next? Because if you do, you will surely also weaken animal welfare in conventional production. But okay, on the basis of the same argument, I could say that when Mr. René Christensen could not support the best animal welfare improvement in Denmark for 15 years, namely that we set the lakes free so that they no longer have to stand firm 50%. of the time, what's next? Will Mr. René Christensen then advocated that they stand firmly 100 per cent. of their lives, as long as they can get clean water? Well, it's a frontal attack on Danish ecology, Organic Landsforening, Agriculture & Food. All parties of the Folketing except Mr. René Christensen supports this. So, of course, it is a far-fetched argument when there is talk of retrograde steps in animal welfare. I thought I was trying in a nuanced way to explain the dilemmas that exist when it comes to animal welfare. And, of course, there are some dilemmas, just as there are when you talk about caged egg production in relation to organic egg production. Yeah, there's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... a higher mortality rate in organic egg production, but that is why I think most people will recognise that animal welfare is better in an organic hen because it can go outside, walk freely and so on. It's the kind of balance you have to make. But if Mr. René Christensen wants a pig who has to stand tight as long as possible inside as long as there is just access to water and that is the most important form of animal welfare, so I just have to say that then we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133746	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133748	Well, we don't disagree. As I also started by saying before, we did not vote against the proposal on non-polluting lakes. We did not vote against this. Now the Minister must remember that the Minister is standing on the platform. The Danish People's Party has not voted against this. So I would just like to say that I note that the Minister confirms me that this is a decline in animal welfare, a slight negative effect on animal welfare. That is what the Minister said, and fortunately everything is being referred to. So it may well be that the rest of the Folketing will vote in favour of this proposal today, but the Minister has confirmed that yes, we are going backwards in relation to animal welfare, and we are doing so with ecology as a hostage. There we just say in the Danish People's Party that we do not want that. We want to have an eco-label that is traditional and an eco-label that is trusted. And then, in fact, we also want a high level of animal welfare, even if we are talking about ecology. There the Minister has a different opinion, and that is how one can disagree politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133844	Well, that's marvellous! Well, I can try to explain it again. I can explain it to Mr. Simpson. René Christensen, but I can't understand him. René Christensen. There are different animal welfare parameters. Some of them may be in mutual conflict with one another. If you want a huge field where there is a very long way to go between the huts in which the pigs lie at night every day of the year, even when it is frosty weather, it presents some challenges in order to ensure that they can have running drinking water 24 hours a day. This presents some challenges. That it would be bad for animal welfare, that on one parameter you cannot deliver, is just plain nonsense, because you will have to see animal welfare as a whole...
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133930	So you still don't talk away directly, you speak in the third person when you stand on the speaking chair of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320133931	Okay, copy that. With you, I meant anyone who had to have that attitude. Ecological Landsforening certainly does not have that attitude. Most people with little understanding of animal welfare, who also see the fact that animals can live out their natural behaviour patterns as important, certainly do not have that attitude. And then it is just a fact that it is true that the Danish People's Party did not vote outright against the proposal, but they did not support it. And that is the way in which the Danish people's government and the way in which the Folketing works are that if there is no majority in favour of a proposal, it will not be adopted. This means that if the votes of the Danish People's Party had been decisive, we would not have adopted the best animal welfare improvement in 15 years. It's paradoxical when you care so much about this, where you're actually wrong, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134024	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134041	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134053	Today we are dealing first with a motion for a resolution on cattle on grass. The proposal is that all cattle older than 3 months of age should be grazed during the summer. At the outset, this sounds like a natural and good idea, and I have great sympathy for the intentions of the proposal. However, it doesn't seem fully thought out anyway. Firstly, it is hardly the case that there will be enough land in Denmark for all the cows to be released, at least not if there is also room for the nature that we want and for the agricultural production that we have today. Secondly, if you ask the industry itself and ask them to make calculations, they estimate that it will cost almost 30,000 jobs, because up to 70%. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. What does that mean? Yes, in addition to the human consequences that it will of course have for the 30,000 people, and in addition to the economic consequences that it will of course have for our society, it will hardly lead to cows going free on the ground either. Most people will probably be slaughtered or driven south and directly back into a stable. In other words, production will move abroad. With this proposal we risk throwing out the baby with the bath water, because the proposal will mean that we will virtually shut down Danish milk production. Does this mean that we in the government don't care if the cows go grass, if we don't care about the welfare of the animals? No, of course not. On the contrary, we are investing massively in better animal welfare, including for our cattle. We do, among other things. by investing in ecology. In the Danish Ecology Plan, 400 million have been set aside in 2015 alone. kr. to more organic farming. That means the cattle are coming out on the grass. With restructuring checks and restructuring aid and a number of other initiatives, we encourage more farmers to switch from conventional farming to organic farming, in other words from not having a legal requirement to go to grass to have a legal requirement to go to grass. And with export promotion and cooperation with the retail trade and by putting the public sector ahead, we have significantly increased the demand for ecology. It is both in Denmark and in our export markets. In addition, we have put in place support schemes under the rural programme which support the grassing of cattle, for example. We support nature and environmental projects and the maintenance of natural areas by grazing. Thus, the government broadly supports more livestock entering the open air. And with the 2014 cattle package, the government also ensures that more young calves are kept in Denmark rather than being sent on long journeys for fattening abroad. In other words, the government has invested massively in animal welfare. As I said at the outset, I have very much sympathy for the intentions of the proposal. I myself fight hard every day for better animal welfare, but I have to say that the solution outlined here will not be good, because it will have a great economic impact on Denmark and we will lose a lot of jobs, but without ensuring better animal welfare, because moving production to Romania or another European country and perhaps even to a country outside the European Union will be worse for animal welfare. It is also because we have, of course, made a great effort during the period we have been through, since a similar proposal was last discussed, to raise animal welfare inside the stables. With the law on dairying, we have ensured that we have a higher level of animal welfare in Denmark than in most other countries, if not all other countries. This means, of course, that the relocation of our production will not be an overall improvement in animal welfare, but rather the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134511	Thank you, Minister. There is one comment from Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134515	It is true, in fact, that there are, among other things. On the basis of a similar resolution, a study was carried out and then a bill was adopted to improve animal welfare in milk production in Denmark. That's right. However, it should be borne in mind that this bill was so inadequate and so bad that the current governing parties would not vote for it. Unlike the Enhedslisten, who is happy to take the small things we can get, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left would go much further. It is a little unclear how much longer you would go and in which direction, but at least you would go much further. You don't want that anymore. I would just like to ask the Minister for Food if it is not true that what we can see now is a development in which fewer and fewer dairy cows are grassed and that we can imagine very precisely that, in the course of 5-10 years, only organic producers will actually be sending their cows to grass. For that is the development that is clearly evident.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134607	Yes, I can confirm that development. I do not have quite updated figures right here, but I can confirm that developments in conventional agriculture are moving in that direction. That is also why it is so important to ensure good animal welfare inside the stables. So the solution is just not to move production to other countries, all the time that animal welfare is worse. And then there is also an opposing trend, fortunately, with the many measures I described, which ensure that more animals go to grass, including specifically and especially the ecological effort, where we have seen an increased demand for organic milk in Denmark, fortunately, and an increased demand for our organic milk in the world. This is something we are struggling to grow even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134655	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134656	The conclusion of what the Minister says is quite simple. Since it would be too expensive to demand that all dairy cattle be fed, we do not demand it. Now, of course, we sometimes carry out some things that may be expensive, but we have some transitional arrangements that are sometimes awesomely lengthy, I would say, precisely when it comes to animal welfare, because we recognise that we must have written off the investments that have been made in stables and so on. Does the Minister for Food not think that one might well have a perspective that we should actually reverse the development in which dairy cattle come to grass less and less?
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134734	In fact, I do not think that this is a fair way of describing my position, in other words to say that it is too expensive. That is, of course, part of the argument, but I mentioned a large number of arguments. In fact, the most important thing for me was an animal welfare argument: if we make the costs for our agriculture so high that it de facto means moving production to other countries where animal welfare is worse, then we will not have a positive animal welfare effect, but a worse animal welfare overall. I don't think a cow cares if it's a German or a Dane or a Swede. I think the cow just realizes that. I think it's the welfare of the cow that matters. The very last point is that, as far as the transitions are concerned, we are actually doing something to reverse the trend, because we are saying that we would like to see even more organic cows going out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134825	Thank you, Minister. Then we have the rapporteur's line in hand. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320134839	Thank you. In considering the motion for a resolution B 57 on grazing cattle, tabled by the Enhedslisten, the Left will vote against the proposal. With the motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten proposes to amend laws and regulations to ensure that all cattle older than 3 months of age have to go to pasture during the summer. The motion for a resolution is tabled, on the one hand, on the basis of the welfare consequences which the proposers estimate it has when cattle do not go on grass and, on the other hand, on the basis of a reduction in the number of cows on grass in recent years. In the Left, we also believe that it is of course a good thing that cattle should go to pasture. Having said that, we believe that the Enhedslisten proposal almost completely forgets the reality. The Left would also have liked to see that Enhedslisten himself had looked a little at what the consequences of it are in another way, what it costs and where the money should come from. We have also just heard from the Minister's statement that this will cost up to 30,000 jobs. That sounds very violent. It would have been nice to hear a little from the Enhedslisten about it and also about the statement that has just been made by the Minister that production will, as it were, simply move out of the country with less animal welfare as a result. This does not seem to have been thought through in the resolution tabled here by the Enhedslisten. Moreover, the welfare of cows is not just a question of whether or not cows are grassed. It is also a question of fair and responsible management, and it can therefore also be pointed out that other initiatives improve the welfare of cows, as has been seen, for example, with the construction of stables, good soil and massive investment in loose farming systems. Similarly, the cattle herd working group considered that there should not be a general requirement for cattle on grass. Among other things, they did so because grazing can have negative effects on welfare, for example in infectious hoof diseases and in other ways. The considerations and expert knowledge Enhedslisten have apparently chosen to disregard their resolution. One might wonder at the timing of the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution. It seems that this proposal completely overlooks the serious economic crisis which the entire Danish agricultural industry is currently experiencing. Milk prices have been falling and this poses a major threat to Danish farms. The sharp fall in prices is, of course, due, among other things, to a fall in prices. Of course, the situation in Russia with the import freeze, but also the slowdown in China and the general situation on the world market. So, despite these serious problems in which Danish agriculture finds itself, it is evidently the Enhedslisten's idea that we should respond by imposing even greater burdens on it. Of course we say no to that in the Left, and on that basis we will also vote against the proposal. Then I should welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they are also against the proposal and will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135135	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135140	It's not that I have to drag it over unnecessarily, and Mr. Erling Bonnesen did not say anything surprising either, but I would just like to ask him one question: shall we understand that, Mr. Erling Bonnesen said, in the sense that the Left agrees in such a way that it is problematic that in the future we will have milk production based solely on cattle in stables all year round? 'Cause I think so, sir. In his introduction, Erling Bonnesen suggested that it was probably a problem that one might be interested in doing something about. If we could have it confirmed, that would be a very great step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135212	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135213	Well, Enhedslisten's master must interpret it as he pleases. But I was delighted that Danish agriculture and cattle farming have also gone ahead themselves and have invested in many new stables with lots of new initiatives, so that there is also progress on animal welfare, and that is also good. So I don't think I should move into botanizing in Enhedslisten's own interpretations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135234	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135235	Then Mr. Erling Bonnesen just what I expected he meant, namely that he thinks it is very good that in future we will have milk production in Denmark, which is based exclusively on cattle that are in stables all year round. That is confirmed by Mr. Erling Bonnesen is a great step forward, which he is very pleased about, and we know the Left again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135249	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135251	Well, I still don't have to botanize in Enhedslisten's own interpretations. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is good that farmers have different types of production, we can say, and get cattle on grass. That's quite fine. So Enhedslisten's own botanizations and interpretations I trustfully leave to Enhedslisten himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135311	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135315	Thank you. On the Socialist side, we cannot support the resolution, but we would like to express a positive demonstration that it is always important to focus on animal welfare. When we cannot support it, this is because we have chosen a different path to achieving improvements in the animal welfare field, which Mr. Per Clausen, in a previous speech, described the pragmatic way in which the small steps were improved, and we exemplified this by making a cattle deal last year, when 180 million were set aside. kr. per Years up to 2020 to, among other things: to limit long transport of animals and 93 million were set aside. kr. for housing investments focusing on the environment, climate and animal welfare. It is then the state part of the economy. In addition, the self-financing of improvements by the industry in the whole of the cattle herd, and we think that should also be credited to that. That is why we have the approach that we need to look at the reality of Danish cattle farming. And it has to be said that we are getting fewer herds and the herds we are getting are getting bigger and bigger, and that leads to a number of logistical problems, Mr President. Per Clausen and Enhedslisten get an otherwise sympathetic proposal through. In addition, however, the necessary land, as the Minister has pointed out, could also be a problem, since there is a lack of land around the buildings where the many cows are gathered. And if the risk is that we can lose the 30,000 jobs that cattle and milk production are creating in Denmark, then we are not going to take part in that experiment. So we are choosing the path of the small pragmatic steps towards ensuring better and better animal welfare. And we do not think that this is so bad, and we also think that the industry on many lines is doing a positive job. And if, as a consumer, you want alternatives to the conventional way of producing cattle on stables, you have the opportunity to buy organic products. And that is something we see to a great extent as a choice for many consumers, and there is indeed the requirement that animals should have the opportunity to go to pasture. So, all in all, we do not think it looks so wrong and we have taken many steps towards better animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135558	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135605	Here we have a motion for a resolution on cattle on grass. If you look at the proposal at first glance, it is a positive proposal, both in relation to animal welfare and when you look at the research results that have also been in relation to claw challenges in relation to cows. When you look at the proposal and ask what the chances of us making this happen are, you have to say, unfortunately, that we have some challenges there and they have not diminished lately. It was not long ago before Christmas that we had the bill L 37, where we also had a discussion about priority. At that time, the Danish People's Party would have liked to have had a discussion about how we can maintain some form of preference, precisely in order to get some lands that were close to us when, for example, you wanted to have the animals on grass. It is true that if you have some land where you have to grow some crops, do not do so much that they are 50 km away, or more for that matter, because then you can go there with your machines and grow them. The problem is when you have to have the animals on the grass; then you would very much like it to be close. If, among other things, you're gonna have to... have dairy cattle, so it has to be close to the farm, so you can also bring them home when milking time. After all, we would have liked that discussion to have been taken and asked: how can we make a preference? It would, of course, have been different from the one we have today, and so we were very much in agreement with both the Minister for Food and the Government as a whole and the majority that was in that it was abused, but we would have liked to have had a discussion on how it could have been used, precisely in order to be able to respond to such proposals as this, that is to say, to more animals on grass. If you vote for this proposal, it will be very, very difficult to put into practice for the industry, because it is difficult for them to find the land close to their properties. The Danish People's Party, in connection with the motion for a resolution which lies here, would like to try to take this debate again, i.e. whether we should not look at how we could turn it together with a priority, where we ask: what are the advantages of the fact that we still have a priority? Ecological Landsforening was, what to say, such a positive attitude towards it at the beginning and then pulled the emotional horns to themselves, and then they weren't so much to talk about priority anymore. It annoys the Danish People's Party, because we actually think there are so many positive effects about it. It may not be a resolution that says that everyone should, but it is certainly an opportunity for more people to have a production where they also get the animals out of the barn. So we will certainly use this resolution as a lever to have that debate and we hope that the Minister will welcome it and will be open to taking that debate in relation to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135843	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135847	Sir. René Christensen is right that since the Enhedslisten's proposal goes directly against the trend we have seen over the past very many years, implementing it or something that just reminds us of it will require that we also have to look at a large number of other legislations; that is clear. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. René Christensen, without having the courage to go into any further controversy, that the Enhedslisten is fully prepared to work on all the proposals which could lead to farmers who would like it to be given a real opportunity to get their cattle on the grass, even if they are not ready to go all the way to ecology. So it is just a commitment that we want to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135924	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135926	The Danish People's Party looks forward to having a sensible debate on this in the Committee on Food and Agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135932	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320135937	From a radical point of view, we can understand the intention of this proposal, and we also like it, that is to say that cattle are going to grass. You also have to say that when you sit at the other end of the button and have to press it and say "okay, now we do it," you always have to look at what the consequences are. So if we were to actually say yes to this proposal from the Enhedslisten, you'd have to know what you really want. The fact is that if we made this demand, as the Enhedslisten proposes, that all cattle should go out, what I really understand you can have as a target, up to 70%. This is the first time that we have had a debate on this subject. It's just a lot. It is something else when you sit and have to take such a decision seriously. Do you really think that you want to go out and spend more than 5 billion dollars? kr. for this business and 0.5 billion. kr. A year and endanger 27,300 jobs? I do not know whether Enhedslisten actually disagrees with the calculations made by the Ministry, whether they believe that the calculations are highly exaggerated or whether it really seems that getting cattle on grass outweighs 27,000 jobs, 70%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr.? It's just what you can feel when you sit and have to make a real decision and have tried it. Then you know that the good intentions can therefore have very great consequences for some others when they hit reality. Having said that, I would like to say that we must do everything we can to ensure that the cattle we have in Denmark are well and that as much of it as possible goes out to grass. One way to afford to get cattle out on grass is to have a better product, a high-quality product. That's what the ecology is. You can get people to pay more for it, and that is why it is for us radicals the right way to go to get cattle on the grass. By supporting ecology, we do not destroy jobs, we do not just place a great financial burden on agriculture, we actually allow a better product to be sold at a higher price, so things are connected. That is why the government has also contributed 400 million. kr. We have made a number of demands which are quite crucial in the area of organic farming, and in the area of livestock in the livestock sheds. There's a resting place per person. Cows so that they can actually get down to lie, there is access to feed and water, and there are some proper conditions in the walking areas. Of course, it is not as good as getting out to grass, but we believe that the right way to get as much cattle as possible out to grass is to make it economically possible for farmers. So it is by moving to a better product, to ecology, so that is the way forward for us. That is why we cannot support this proposal, even though we actually share the intention to get as much cattle as possible on grass.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140237	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140244	On the figures, I would just like to say that the Ministry of Food has an abyss of confidence in Agriculture & Food figures. I do not share the abyss of confidence. But there is no doubt that such a proposal will have major consequences, not at all. That is why I also understand that a government party would be a little reluctant to do so. However, what I would like to ask Mrs Ida Auken is whether, now that the Danish People's Party has indicated that they would like to look at some kind of progress that could be made in the committee work, we could have a discussion about whether there are some things that have not been carried out that we could do, that we could at least have a development where we had more dairy cattle on grass than the reverse development.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140321	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140323	Now, I think that is a good approach and I think that is a good way to use the debates in the Parliamentary Chamber. I understand that one would like to table a motion for a resolution on the part of the supporting parties and show which direction one thinks things should go. And if there is any pragmatic progress we can make that can get more cattle on the grass, then we are clearly on the radical side open to it. It is just not making a demand now and then being willing to take such a high cost for a profession that is having a hard time; it will probably just mean that production is moving somewhere else, so that there are no cattle that get better out in the real world. That is what makes us say no to that proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140404	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140422	From the SF we also have great sympathy for the intention of Enhedslisten's proposal. A few days ago I was in West Jutland and visited Frederik, who is an eco-farmer and has 30 dairy cattle that are grazing. They have an open stable, so they can come and walk as they please. I saw his financial statements. He is rated to have 26 cases of disease among the 30 dairy cattle, which I think is quite a lot, but he had one. He also, when all expenses were paid, had a profit of a small half million kroner. It is just to say that it is possible, under the right conditions, to have organic dairy cattle in Denmark that are grazing. But it is also a much greater discussion that we are also taking in other fora about the crisis in which parts of agriculture are in, also economically. It is difficult to claim that all Danish livestock are equally well, and much of what is going on is still legal. Animals do not always meet their natural needs and access to space. A survey among the Danes a year ago showed that over 93 per cent. by the Danes think that all cows should go to grass in the summer. And, as in so many other contexts, we can vote with our purse and only buy organic milk, because organic cows will have to go out in the summer. The reason why since 2003 there has been a fall in the number of cattle on grass is, among other things, that the cows are no longer bound in the stables. Those who were not replaced by organic cows are now loosed in larger stables. And by 2022, fortunately, tied cows are completely over in the stables. SF would like to take part in looking at the conditions that Enhedslisten points out in the proposal regarding the large stables, and we would also like to contribute to the end of tied cows. But it is not always the case that it is completely unproblematic to have cattle under pressure. It's kind of an art to feed cows on grass. Farmers must keep an eye on the fact that they are all given sufficient feed and that it is balanced in relation to the nutrients that are needed. Feeding is easier to control when they're in the stables. And then cows are habit animals, they like to get the same amount of feed every day. In addition, there is a requirement for the condition of the field. The farmer should have the right type of soil at close distance, there should be enough grass growth, and then there should be no weary or hole in the field so that the cows are injured. If those demands are not in SF, we do not agree that it is automatically bad that farms are large and that the state of things is always one hundred percent in order and perfect in small use. We would very much like to work together on better rules for the layout of stables and faster release of the last tied cows. Perhaps we should then really talk about how to eradicate pesticide milk; the organic milk goes, as it were, on grass all summer. With those comments, we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140741	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140750	Thank you. According to this proposal, we were to require the government to make the necessary changes to laws and regulations to ensure that all bovine animals older than 3 months of age will be grazed during the summer months. This will have enormous economic consequences for Danish agriculture. There are other rapporteurs who have explained this, so I shall not repeat it. In general, we in the Liberal Alliance believe that we should leave a greater part of the management to the farmers themselves. And I cannot help wondering if Enhedslisten has actually considered what consequences such a proposal could have for CO2 but, of course, it is a story that will have to be calculated a little further later on. But against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140837	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Left has spoken for the Conservative People's Party in the past, so we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320140848	Listening to this debate, one might get the impression that in terms of support for this proposal, it only goes one way, and it's back. When we tabled the proposal for the first time, 9 years ago, SF and Radicals were in favour; the Socialists abstained, they often did so in animal welfare issues during the opposition period; the Danish People's Party was positive about it. If we remember what it was like back, I think it was in 2010, when we passed the law that now applies to dairy cattle, then the Enhedslisten tabled amendments that both dairy cows and heifers should have the opportunity to go grass, and the latter was now in line with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, but that did not change anything, I would just say. The SF and Radicals voted in favour, the Social Democrats abstained, and the Danish People's Party had already decided to oppose it. So it can be said that in Mr. René Christensen's time as rapporteur in this area has been a consequence of the position of the Danish People's Party. I also remember that many people also spoke kindly about the proposal at the time, and it is not always that people talk kindly about proposals from the Enhedslisten, so one should be happy about that. That was also the consequence, I would say, or I do not know if it had, but the then Minister for Justice, who was on the matter at the time, took the opportunity, at least when we had the first reading of the resolution, to say that she had now set up a working group to work on the situation of dairy cattle with a view to establishing a set of rules, namely what was then adopted in 2010. And if you are a little self-absorbed, you might well say that this would have a trigger effect on the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution in relation to that work. This can hardly ever be documented, but there is sometimes some coherence in it: committee work is being initiated, expert groups are getting started, and it then becomes a resolution here in the Folketing if the assessment from the government is that what is being presented is probably a better case for the proposer than for the government. And that's just good. Then it has been said about this proposal that it will have a large number of disastrous economic consequences. This is also based, as far as I understand it, on the calculations made by Agriculture & Food, which, of course, do not underestimate the economic data. But it is clear that when you put forward a proposal which will mean that the development we have seen over the last ten years, when you have gone from 75% to 75%. of the dairy cattle were on grass, that only 25% should be turned, so it is clear that it has some consequences, and if you make a calculation of what it will cost next year, if you do it next year, then you see that it will of course be really, really expensive; I think you couldn't do that at all. What we could decide on was that we would actually reverse developments and that we would ensure that at some point in the future we had dairy cattle on grass. That's something you could make up your mind about. It is quite certain that this would have consequences for the structure of Danish agriculture in the future, because this would mean that the need to constantly make larger and larger farms would be counteracted by the fact that it would be very difficult to combine the very large farms with the need for cattle to be on grass, just as one can imagine that it will also have a consequence of how large the herds can be if pig production is converted into ecology. Whether or not it has a negative impact on earnings is quite a different matter. For the concentration and efficiency trend, which has been driven by Danish agriculture in recent years, you have done it very well, you are extremely efficient and you have not led to a high income for agriculture. On the contrary. Agriculture is in a virtually permanent economic crisis and must constantly demand that a little purchase of animal welfare be made, a little purchase in terms of nature and the environment, in order to be able to drive agriculture economically. It is clear that our proposal says otherwise. We say that we choose to focus on the fact that we think it is good that dairy cattle are put on grass. It is even so good that we do not have to see many years back in time, until with Agriculture & Food's many filmizations of how life was in the countryside, without smell and quite a lot of noise, we could see some very beautiful color pictures of some dairy cattle that were on the grass, and that was not forgery, because it existed, but I think that it may have come to a bit about Agriculture & Food that one should not market oneself at the opposite of the policy one has. It's a bad idea, even for an interest organization. But it probably shows very well that the perception that it is a very good idea for dairy cattle to be on grass is quite widespread among the population. It has also become such an attraction among city dwellers to come out and see it where it happens. And although I must be very careful about falling into the trap and thinking that animals are expressing joy on the basis of the same considerations that people are doing, one might get the impression that it was not quite uncomfortable for the cows to be released. That is where we have come to where we can say: well, what can we get out of this debate, which is positive? In other words, it seems that we have not yet reached the point where there is a majority in the Danish Parliament, saying: we can see that the consequence of the developments in Danish agriculture in recent years has not created the great economic earnings we had expected. And even if we are talking about how many people are employed, that is to say, when it comes to primary production, that is to say, the one that is going on in agriculture and that concerns the immediate processing of the products we produce, then employment is not increasing, but rather decreasing. So it is neither a great economic gain nor an enormous employment success. Then I thought it was a little funny when I was recently sent by the Danish Parliament to the Philippines.That's a good thing, thank you for the fact that we who were told that one of Arla's main arguments for being very good at selling dairy products in the Philippines was that fortunately you had a climate in Denmark where you could have cows. I wonder when they find out down in the Philippines that the climate in Denmark is so excellent that the cows are indoors all the time. If possible, dairy products can also be produced elsewhere on the earth other than where there is a temperate climate if they are to be indoors all the time. So I don't know. So for what we can get out of this debate on the positive side: when we had the debate back in 2006-07, I also said that I was glad that this expert work was started. Now a commitment has been made by several parties that we would like to look at whether we can implement measures that would make it economically and in other ways, in a more efficient way, to send dairy cattle to pasture than it is today. And we know that it is sometimes the case here in the Chamber that we are in the constructive and good mood where we constantly talk about having to do some good things afterwards, and that it happens sometimes that it doesn't really happen. However, I think that we are dealing here with an area in which it would be very sensible if we sat down in committee and tried to look at what measures we could possibly agree on, as everyone has said, going in the right direction. Erling Bonnesen, for every time I tried what Mr. Erling Bonnesen said, he told me that I had not understood him correctly, and that is of course a little too bad, but we can work on that in writing, and then maybe we can get a better understanding of what each other thinks. It is possible, in any case, that we should not let anything be unproven. So it should just be the closing remarks that I expect that we will now have a talk about this proposal in committee, and then I will take it with me, that there are a lot of people who would like to do something to improve animal welfare; that they are not very happy that it will cost farmers anything; and that they are apparently still convinced that the strategy that has been for Danish agricultural development, which has meant that you are now in a virtually permanent economic crisis, is the right strategy. I do not quite understand that, but on the other hand, I do not expect it to change today either. I have argued for it many times, and it doesn't move much, so it's probably something with the teaching skills that don't strike, and then it's good that your time in the Folketing is soon over, so we can get in new forces that may have a better and wiser way of arguing so that they can convince more people about it. It's going a little better in society, I'd say, outside these walls, there's probably more people who think it's a good idea. However, we are working constructively on this, and then I shall not delay the matter further, as I can safely say, since I have almost used up all my speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320141710	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150320141730	Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill no. L 167 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations, the Boat Tax Act, the Fund Taxation Act, the Tax Administration Act and various other laws. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 24 March 2015, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
