ParlaMint-DK_20150318130000	The meeting is open. There are today the following reviews: Minister for Climate, Energy and Building (Rasmus Helveg Petersen): Bill no. L 163 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the promotion of renewable energy sources, the law on subsidies for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the production processes of enterprises and the law on electricity supply. PV and household wind turbines, investment grants and operating aid for CHP plants, settlement conditions for Horns Horn 3 and abolition of the three-stage tariff, etc.). Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 164 (Proposed procurement law). Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill No. 165 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning. Brian Mikkelsen (KF), Torsten Schack Pedersen (V), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 97 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to remove the authorisation for SKAT to enter private gardens without a warrant). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130100	The first question is by Mr. Søren Espersen to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130113	Thank you. My question is: Will the Prime Minister explain why the government consistently refuses to obtain information on important issues about Greenland from the Home Rule Government of Greenland (cf. replies from the Minister for the Environment, MIU, alm. Part, spm. 283), while the government is usually extremely helpful and commendable when it comes to obtaining information from countries outside the community for members of parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130141	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130143	This is a question which I have answered in the past, and I have to say that I do not agree with the questioner's point, namely that the government is consistently refusing to obtain information on important issues relating to Greenland. The government's basic view remains, of course, that parliamentary questions must be answered, and that also applies to questions about Greenland. At the same time, we believe that it is important to respect the distribution of competences that comes with the Greenlandic system of self-government, which is behind both Greenland and a broad majority in the Folketing here. This means, of course, that autonomy has competences in the areas which have been taken over and which are now being carried out by the Greenlandic authorities. That is why it is not our job as a Parliament or government to control how Greenland handles those areas, and that is exactly what the government wants to avoid being cast doubt about. There may therefore be questions where the government does not want to obtain further information from the national government, because it may seem that we in the government or the Folketing want to control how self-government performs the tasks for which the autonomy has competence. If, in a few cases, the government has not chosen to obtain information from the national government in order to answer questions in the Folketing, it is therefore in respect of the system of self-government and the competence of the Greenland authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130317	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130318	Yes, I understand. I'm not questioning jurisdiction. I would also like to say that I began the question to the Minister for the Environment, who was the reason why we are now dealing with it. I'm not talking about control either. I am talking about the speciality of the government's being extremely eager and helpful when it comes to information from all sorts of countries. I've been in the archives a little bit and found out what you've actually been asking about over the years. We are looking at the question of how to deal with elections in the Maldives. We have asked about the train operation in Germany. We have asked about Peru and about prisoners in custody in Turkey, where the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has quite loyally obtained information from our embassy in the various places, and then we have been able to give the answer to the Danish Parliament if requested. We are, as the Prime Minister also knows, in a situation where we get reports from the richman of what is going on in Greenland, also in Greenland's policy, they are also sent to the Greenland Committee, and we read them with great interest, but we do not have the opportunity to ask about it. As I see it, and that is what I think there is the big problem, and I will repeat that I am not calling into question the competence and that this is not a question of control, it is general information that we want, because Greenland is as close to us as they are, and if we really want to help put the Kingdom community on the agenda, then it is also a condition that we can keep up with what is happening in each other's countries. Greenland is the only place on the planet, certainly apart from the Faroe Islands, where Danish parliamentarians cannot get information about what is happening. All other countries are wide open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130517	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130519	I would like to reiterate that the basic view of the government remains, of course, that questions of parliament must be answered and that this also applies to questions of Greenland. Having said that, I also want to, because Mr. Søren Espersen himself brings it up, say to this, that sometimes questions about foreign affairs are also asked, that it is now my impression that the questions that the Danish Parliament typically asks about foreign affairs do not quite have the same character as the few questions about Greenland that the government has chosen not to go into. For example, when the Danish Parliament... Wants information about the legal situation in other countries as a possible inspiration for Denmark, as Mr. Søren Espersen also mentions some examples of, then it is a different type of question than the few questions that the government did not want to answer. Having said that, I also think that we should generally be a little cautious in making a 1:1 comparison between our external relations and our relations with Greenland. Because it's not the same relationship. Our relationship with Greenland is subject to a special framework, which does not apply in our relations with other countries. And when we obtain answers from other countries via the embassies on matters in their countries, we should remember that we are not subject to the same allocation and framework of competences, but perhaps the suspicion that can also be about control by Denmark. I do not want to be faced with a situation in which the question of conditions in other countries can be seen as being such that we are monitoring the issues being asked. And I have to say with regard to the questions that we have chosen not to answer, that it sounds a little like we in the Folketing will control areas such as Greenland have the power to implement itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130719	Let me remind you that there are 2 minutes in the first round and then only 1⁄2 minutes. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130725	Now I think we're into something similar to touch anxiety. I have to say that as it is. I agree with the fact that we have abroad on the one hand and, on the other, we have shown, for example. the Danish municipalities. Let's take them. If I want to know something about something going on in the municipality of Lejre or in another municipality, I'll ask the ministry and then get information about what it is. When it comes to foreign affairs, I am also told what it is. But what's strange sometimes, the Kingdom Community, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, I'm not allowed to know about. I don't think it makes any sense, and it puts me in a strange situation, because where the hell should I go to excuse the phrase where should I go if I really want to know what is going on in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130807	I'll take note of the apology. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130810	I simply have to say again that it is not the case that we are not going to answer questions relating to Greenland. No, there are a few questions where we think there can be a confusion and it looks like you want to have control of some things that you have taken over responsibility for in Greenland, which we have said we will not answer. But in general we answer questions from the Danish Parliament, and this also applies to matters relating to Greenland. However, I think it is absolutely, absolutely essential that we respect the system of autonomy, that we respect the competence of the Greenlandic authorities. And that is why we must also respect the fact that it is not for the Folketing to control the Greenlanders in the areas where they have taken over responsibility themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130858	Søren Espersen, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130859	I repeat: I do not want to be in control. That's not what I'm talking about here at all. The question that gave rise to all this was a completely innocent question to the Minister for the Environment whether she would ask her Greenlandic colleague whether there is a plan to have the so-called dumps, dumps, removed. I would have thought of asking exactly the same question about something that was going on in Hamburg, and would have received the answer with a guarantee: yes, the German Government is planning to do so and so; they inform our embassy. But here it is a clear example, Prime Minister, I apologize for saying it on a completely misunderstood fear of touch in relation to the Kingdom community, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130942	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318130943	I have to say that I think it is quite wrong to say that we have a misunderstood fear of touch. We have the deepest respect for the fact that we have a system of self-government, which means that self-government is responsible for some areas for which we are no longer responsible in Denmark. That's the respect I think you should have in relation to this. This also means that one must understand that the autonomy does not exercise its competence under Danish supervision. And in matters which may have the character of us in the Folketing giving the impression that we need to have supervision or control how to solve some tasks in Greenland, I think one should be careful. I think we should be aware that when we in the government or the Folketing want information on how to deal specifically with our areas, it can be very easy to perceive it as if, despite the autonomy regime in Denmark, we still want to check whether we are doing it well enough in Greenland. I do not think this is a fair way of treating Greenland. We answer a lot of questions about Greenland, but there are some questions where we do not think it is a fair way to treat Greenland. On the contrary, I believe that we must show respect for the system of self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131105	The next question is by Mr. Søren Espersen to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131110	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131113	Thank you, and I will read the question: will the Prime Minister, at a forthcoming meeting, as an important initiative to strengthen the unity and common understanding of the Commonwealth, propose to the lagman and the President of the Government that new practices be introduced so that members of parliament, through the government, can ask questions to Naalaksusususut and Føroya Landstyri, respectively, and similarly that members of Inatsisartut and Føroya Løgting, through their respective governments, can ask questions to the government and thus in the same way between the parliaments of Nuuk and Tórshavn? That's a long sentence, I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131150	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131151	The question is understood. First of all, the government answers questions about the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the vast majority of cases, and this also applies to questions from the Lating and the Landsting. And that applies to questions from the Folketing. I also think it is important to remember that the answer to questions about the Faroe Islands and Greenland relates to two different situations. There is one situation when members of parliament ask the government questions about matters in areas where the Faroe Islands and Greenland have competence and where the question, which I also mentioned in the previous answer, may appear as control of the way in which the self-governance is handled. We have just discussed this issue. Then there is another situation, and that is when the Latting and the Landsting via the governors ask questions to the government. And there we must remember that there are still a number of areas that the Faroe Islands and Greenland have not taken over and where Denmark is responsible and responsible for the tasks. There, after all, we adopt legislation here in the Folketing, after the Latting and the Landsting have been consulted. And there I have to say that it is clear that the Lating and the Landsting can have a clear interest in getting answers from the Danish Government about matters for which we are responsible in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands respectively. I can inform you that, in relation to this type of question, there is already a practice today for the government to answer such questions. It can, for example, be done. the relationship of the police or the conditions of service in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland. It is a Danish competence, and we will of course answer the questions that may be about Greenland and the Faroe Islands in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131345	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131347	I am well aware of how it works, that there is something we still have, and that if I ask questions about the police relations in Greenland, for example, that will also be answered. What I am really asking is whether the Prime Minister will take the initiative to strengthen the Kingdom community in such a way that we can, as it were, ask with each other. I know it is done through the Nordic Council on a large scale across national borders, but strangely enough it is not in relation to the Kingdom Community. Greenlandic MPs have, of course, full right to ask questions about things going on in Hobro. On the other hand, we parliamentary members of the Folketing have no opportunity to ask about the things that we may be engaging in and where the autonomy has taken over the competences, the reclaimed things. But first of all, who should I ask? Who should I ask when it comes to something in the Kingdom community that has been taken home? Where are my options for asking the questions that I have the opportunity to ask in all sorts of other contexts, but therefore cannot ask here? So I would say that at the moment we are all in the process of asking: how can we really strengthen the Kingdom community? How can we make it stronger in every way possible? And here I think that there is really a chance that we can start to engage in each other's things. What is going on in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands? And what is going on in Denmark from the other side? It would be extremely strong for the sense of community within the Kingdom community if we could do what we naturally do in the Nordic Council and, as I have said before, in many other areas in relation to other countries. So my question is: Will the Prime Minister at least take it up with his two colleagues from Greenland and the Faroe Islands when we have the next Kingdom meeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131551	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131552	As you will understand from my replies, I do not believe that there is any need for a new practice in this area. I mean, sir. Søren Espersen has good opportunities to ask questions. It is also my impression that there is parliamentary cooperation between the various parliaments in the three kingdoms. In this way you can also ask questions, just as we naturally have debates here in the Folketing on these issues on a regular basis. So I do not think there is any need for a new practice in this area. We already have a practice for the government to answer questions from the Faroe Islands and Greenland about matters that affect the Faroe Islands and Greenland. And then we also answer a number of questions about Greenland and the Faroe Islands from members of parliament. We are happy to obtain information, but we do not want to notice that the questions and answers appear as checking the way in which the autonomy has carried out its tasks. And that is all we are saying, in other words, if it can appear to be a control of the areas for which responsibility has been taken over, then we do not think that this is a fair way of working and we will not respond out of respect for the system of self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131705	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131706	The Prime Minister keeps saying it with control. I repeat, I have no desire to exercise control. If, as I have found, I have asked about the operation of trains in Germany, there was no mention of the fact that now we should take control away from the Germans in relation to their own train operations. In other words, these are simple questions to which I wanted an answer, and one of them is what I asked several times, namely whether you could not know when they intend to take action in relation to those who fail. There is no control in it. It's just an ordinary interested citizen in the Kingdom community who wants to hear how things are going, just as Greenland is incredibly interested in when cleaning up at Fleet Station Grøndal, when chemicals are removed from there. We have a mutual interest, and that is what I think the Prime Minister is preventing by not wanting to raise such a proposal at the Kingdom meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131808	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131810	I think so, sir. Søren Espersen exaggerates as to which questions you cannot get an answer to, because I do not think it is true that the government is consistently refusing to answer questions about Greenland. We answer a lot of questions, but if it has the character of control and I actually think that the question that Mr. Søren Espersen has repeatedly referred to, has the character of some kind of control over an area that Greenland has taken over, so I do not think that is fair. And I do not think it is respectful of our system of self-government to ask such controlling questions. We answer many other questions, and we must do so, because the government must, of course, answer questions. However, if there are questions that are on the verge of not respecting our system of self-government, then I think it is fair that we should not answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131902	Søren Espersen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131903	But then I have to ask: is it disrespectful to Turkey to ask their embassy how many prisoners they have in Turkey? Is it disrespectful to the Maldives to ask about their elections and how it is done? Is it disrespectful to Peru to ask all the things in the world that we can in every way be told? It's not disrespectful at all. It is an interest in what is going on in the world, and here we are talking about something that is happening in our own sphere within the Kingdom community, the most close relationship we have with any other people around the world. That's what I find so grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131942	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318131944	As I have also said before, I do not think we can compare the questions that Mr. Søren Espersen gives examples and the specific questions that the government did not want to answer. I don't think that's comparing. Having said that, I do not think we can compare our relations with other countries with the relationship we have with Greenland and the Faroe Islands either. And I mean, sir. Søren Espersen exaggerates the scale of the problem. We actually answer quite a lot of questions, but we also have the starting point of having respect for the system of self-government. And that means that questions that have the character of checking how Greenland and the Faroe Islands exercise their competence do not seem reasonable to us to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132030	Thank you both to the questioner and to the Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, who reads the next question, is to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132040	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132042	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that the development of the number of civil servants from the third quarter of 2011 to the fourth quarter of 2014 runs with the government's promises from before the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132053	The Prime Minister... I'm sorry, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132058	Yeah, I managed to get a smaller fiber blast coming over here, that's why it all looks a little heavy. Yeah, it's pathetic when it gets that far with you. It is also the case that, in 2011, the government assumed responsibility for an economy with large deficits in public finances, while at the same time there were significant unsustainable budget overruns at the end of the 00s, particularly in the municipalities. In the period from 2001 to 2007, public consumption increased twice as much as planned; every time 1 DKK was planned to be spent. extra, yes, then you actually spent 2 kroner. extra. Expenditure went mainly in the municipal economy. For example: the actual service costs in the municipalities were 5 billion. kr. higher than budgeted in 2009 and 2 billion. kr. higher than budgeted in 2010. After all, the budget overruns contributed to a historically high level of public employment in 2010 of around 850,000 people in the second quarter of 2010. The decline in public employment since 2010 must therefore include, inter alia: In view of the adjustment that has taken place compared to the historically high level reached in mid-2010, public employment in 2014 is in line with the average level in the period 2001-2008. Under this government, more money has been allocated every year to increase our common welfare, and this has ensured a targeted increase in the area of the elderly, of children, of health care and of education, and in future there will also be room to increase public employment. Towards 2020, we give priority to pursuing an economic policy where there is room for a fully funded growth in public consumption of approx. 20 billion kr. If it is calculated for public employees, it gives room for an increase in the number of employees in the public sector, which corresponds to approx. 8,000 full-time workers. In this way, we will also spend more money on welfare year by year, and this will allow us to make targeted improvements in priority areas without having to take that money from other areas. Having said that, the government does not have as a precise objective that public employment should be either a certain number of x or a certain number of y; it will in concrete terms be up to the individual municipal, regional and state institutions to prioritise within the financial framework made available.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132324	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132325	Thank you for your answer. Sir. Simon Kollerup, the municipal rapporteur for the Social Democrats, said that Denmark's Statistics came with the latest figures last week, which showed a continued decline in the number of public employees, and I quote: "It is not our fault." This is probably a little the same answer that I hear from the Minister for Finance when the Minister for Finance says that developments over the last 31⁄2 years, in relation to how the public sector has developed, including the number of employees in the public sector, are not the government's fault, but it is the fault of some others. It is probably the fault of the Left or the fault of the Danish People's Party or of all sorts of others, but at least it is not the government's fault how developments have been under the leadership of the current government. Is that how I'm supposed to understand the answer? Because I think that is something paradoxical. It must always be the case that the government in office can give priority and can organize its policy at any time, of course, with the conditions that exist, but when one has at some point gone to the polls and promised the electorate that certain things would now be done, then surely one must also go in and give priority to those things afterwards if the promises made before the elections are to stand up to believers. That is why I should just like to ask whether it is true that the Minister for Finance agrees with Mr Gundelach. Simon Kollerup in that it is not the government's fault that there is now a decline and a continued decline in the number of full-time employees in the public sector of about 14,000 since that government took over.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132442	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132444	I do not really know, but I sometimes get the impression that the Left and perhaps even very much the questioner are dealing with some kind of guilt complex in relation to the economic policy of the '00s and the negative consequences that have been of it, and I think it is interesting to get acquainted with and also to be part of the discussion of that phenomenon every time. I don't really know, but I don't think it makes much sense to discuss blame in these contexts. At any rate, it is a fact, as I said in my reply, that we were faced with a country in great financial difficulties when we took over responsibility 31⁄2 years ago. There was a lot to clean up when it came to the Danish economy, it was both about the public part of our economy. Unfortunately, it was also about the private part where we had lost many, many thousands of jobs. In both respects, we seem to be on a much better track now after 31⁄2 years with another government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132533	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132535	But it is surely not uninteresting to listen to the promises now made by the current government: if only the current government is re-elected, it will again flow with milk and honey, then there will be investment again, and then more public employees will return. That's how we have to understand it. When I note that it was about the same promises that were made before the 2011 elections and when it can be seen that developments on the central point, namely the number of public servants, who are obviously one of the essential points for the government, have gone exactly the opposite way to what was promised, it is only that I ask the question whether, however, the government itself has no chance of prioritising that question. Could it not be imagined that the government organized a policy which actually followed up what was promised with the conditions with which the country was taken over? Or was it a completely black country when one sat and organized one's policy, on which one had been elected in 2011, when the doors suddenly opened the day after the election, and the world looked completely different?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132630	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132631	No, absolutely not. What was said before the elections was that we would be governed by a precautionary principle, using only the money we finance. That is what we have done, as opposed to those who were before us. That is why the Danish economy is now far, far better than under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's management. In relation to the forward-looking, it is of course such a construction in the Left Party that there should be something such particularly uncertain about what we are putting forward as an opportunity for Denmark. It's not gonna last at all. In fact, as I understand the President of the Left, we agree with the 2020 plan that we have put forward. In fact, it is the only bid that the Left currently has on economic policy that one agrees with the government's 2020 level. It must also mean that we agree that the room for manoeuvre that we are pointing to exists, and surely also agree that it can be used, as we propose, and that this is what we want in Danish politics. The Left will not, as I understand it. But there can be no doubt that the choice and the possibility are there for two seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132724	Jacob Jensen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132727	I just need to make sure we're clear. Some promises were made. I believe, moreover, that the present Prime Minister, when she saw that she was not Prime Minister, but wanted to be, said something like not firing the public sector. I assume that when you say that, you know fairly well the conditions for what an economy you are dealing with doing, what priorities you have, and what policies you can organize according to the situation. Then what happened? It has happened that we now have approx. 14,000 fewer civil servants. So there are 14 000 people who have been fired in the public sector under this government. That is not exactly the same as the promises that were made. And that is why I am just asking: is this the same mechanics that we are now experiencing, namely that new promises are now being made again, and that again on the other side of the election we must see that hooves, there was no room for that anyway, and that therefore we see exactly the opposite policy of what was promised 2-3 months ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132816	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132817	I am a warm supporter of getting things straight and let us be clear by correcting what the author says on two crucial points. Firstly, the commitment before the elections was to run according to a precautionary principle on every point, just as we have done, and it has even been repealed into law in the law called the Budget Act, that one runs according to the principle of economic policy. The Danish economy is very good for this, and that is one of the reasons why we are far better today than we did then. Secondly, I would really like to ask for a commitment from an objective opponent from the Left that when we talk about the government's 2020 plan and about the room for manoeuvre that has been provided and which is fully funded and which, if you give political priority to it, can be used in our hospitals, our care for the elderly, our primary schools and our social services, that money is there and that is what the Left thinks. In any case, there has been a commitment from Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen; it is not something you leave today I hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132911	The next question is by Mr. Jacob Jensen to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132917	Thank you. And it is this: will the Minister explain whether he believes that there is a direct link between the number of employees in the public sector and the quality of the services provided by the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132925	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318132927	Thank you very much. Again, public employment reached an historically high level in 2010 under the previous government. I explained that a moment ago. Subsequently, there has been a decrease so that public employment in 2014 is in line with the average level in the period 2001-2008. Has there been a corresponding decline in welfare as public employment declines? I do not think that can be said in this way. Of course, it also plays a role in making use of the resources that are made available. And the number of public employees or the cost of public consumption does not in itself measure directly the value or quality of public services from a user perspective. That is not what matters here either. What is crucial is the political difference that exists in Denmark and it is whether you want to invest in the development of our common welfare or whether you want zero growth as an alternative to such a course. For its part, the government has no objective as to whether public employment should be x or y or something quite different, it is up to the individual municipal, regional and state institutions to give priority within the financial framework provided. However, we are giving priority to 2020 and are pursuing an economic policy where there is room for a fully funded boost in public consumption of approx. 20 billion kr., and this will allow for a growth in the number of employees in the public sector corresponding to approx. 8,000 full-time employees in the latest medium-term projection we have made. Faced with this, the Left's zero growth is, of course, equivalent to the fact that by 2020 we will have 28,000 fewer full-time public employees compared to the government's latest 2020 plan. In this way, we will also spend more money on welfare year by year, and this will allow us to make targeted improvements to priority areas, without taking the money from other areas, if we bear in mind that we continue the direction that the government has taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133129	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133130	Thank you for your answer. In fact, I am very much in favour of that answer because I agree with the Minister for Finance with what the Minister for Finance says, namely that there is no link between the precise number of public employees and then the quality and service that can then be provided in the public sector. In fact, I fully agree with the Minister for Finance on this. All the more so the other half of the Minister for Finance's reply puzzles me, that is to say he is not aware of the importance of one or the other number of public employees, because both of them cannot be right. And so I agree with the Minister for Finance in the first half, that is, there is no link between the number of employees and the quality of the work. This, of course, is also linked to what you put in the hands that are out there, i.e. the quality • whether you get their professional skills in play, management, technology and much, much else. That is why I would like to ask whether the continuing campaign conducted by the government and the Social Democratic Party, which, like time and again, says that the spending stop of the Left is what others call zero growth, but we call it a stop to spending, because that is what it is supposed to mean massive deterioration, massive cuts in the public sector and fewer thousands of public employees. Why is it really interesting to discuss the number of public servants when the Minister of Finance himself stands and says in this Chamber that it is deeply uninteresting? The interesting thing is the quality of what you get from the investments you make. Then you can do more or less, but the number of public employees is not interesting compared to the quality you get from it. I hear the Minister for Finance say this, I agree with it, and that is why I ask why the Social Democrats are conducting a campaign which focuses precisely on the number of public employees. Instead, should we not focus on the quality of the tax dollars that are politically chosen in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133318	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133319	It's very simple, because of course you have to do boats and boats. And there is no reason to make such political discussions more sophisticated than they need to be. Of course, we must do everything we can to get as much out of the money we spend as possible, and this government has done far more than the government that preceded us. I can only mention the reform of primary schools as an important example of a really strong roof towards spending taxpayers' money far better than they were already. In addition, it plays a role, of course, how much money you spend, and it also plays a role, how many employees there are. The context is not direct, no, but of course it is difficult to imagine a public sector without employees providing a truly excellent service. In any case, I think that has long prospects before you end up there. So it is, of course, a both-and-so, and therefore it is also brilliantly interesting to focus on what the policy of the Left really means. And the only way to increase the interest is that the Left itself will not tell us what the policy of the Left is, that is, where it is, this zero growth affects which parts of the public sector we are talking about and where it is that we want to reduce resources and spend less money on essential public purposes. If only you told it openly, you would probably have another debate, including with the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133434	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133436	Now the Minister for Finance mentions, as an example, the reform of primary school. This is a good example, because it is also a reform that the Left is part of, and I am very pleased with that reform, also as an example in this debate. For me, as we all agree, the reform of primary schools does, in fact, increase quality, but within the same financial framework. In other words, it is a cost stop at the primary school, but where you get more quality in play. That is why I am surprised that the Finance Minister and other senior Socialists are continuing to do so again. I'm standing here with a picture, sir. Jesper Petersen has posted on Facebook, where, like pr. the municipality shows the number of public employees. The number given is wrong, by the way, but it is a different story what the number may be. However, the focus is on the fact that this would mean a smaller number of public employees, which would then be equal to a lower quality of public service. When I hear the Minister for Finance say that he simply does not agree with the premise that fewer public employees are equal to poor quality, I am surprised. It may be many other issues, technology, management, and that you may also have certain private individuals who come in and solve some of the tasks that are crucial to the overall service, and not specifically a number of public employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133546	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133547	As I have said, I have the quite pragmatic and I believe that this is a both-and-so. As far as primary school is concerned, we also did boats and so, and we did a lot of things differently and much better, because after my memory we also added more resources to the primary school area, not least by implementing this reform, but we can delve into that on another occasion. Then I think you just have to take it quite practically. Take our health care. This is changing dramatically over these years: new types of medicine, new technology, new super hospitals, new opportunities. I just have the view that I do not believe for a moment that we can live up to people's expectations without investing more money in a proper healthcare system and probably also employ more nurses and doctors to handle those tasks. If the Left is of the opinion that we can manage with a health service that will not get a penny more at any time in the future, please say so plainly, because then we will have a political debate that is worth taking and feeling. The government believes both - and, in other words, more efficiency - higher investments, and the Left believes what? That is the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133652	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133653	Yes, yes, the Minister of Finance knows very well what the Left thinks. And that is not true either, because of course we are also saying, as the Minister for Finance, that, for example, there is also a need for additional investment in the field of health. The Minister for Finance can see this quite clearly if he reads our financial bill. My wife, moreover, is a nurse, and I should like to say to her that, at least, there is a need for a considerable amount of extra people. But my point about this is that the question is not the number, the question is how to lead, how to put their professional skills into play, working methods, good examples from other municipalities and other regions and so on. And I also hear the Minister for Finance replying, and he has already replied to the Folketing, that he does not agree with the premise that several public employees are equal to better quality. So we are in complete agreement with the Minister of Finance on this. I also hear the Minister for Finance say that you can actually get more quality for the money. Therefore, it is just that I am surprised that we continue to focus on the fact that there must now be a certain number of public employees. I have to understand that, sir. Jesper Petersen, sir. Simon Kollerup and others have been out to say that there must be, otherwise we will not be able to get the service required. Does the Minister of Finance agree with the view that there should be a certain number of public employees? Or could it perhaps be a combination of public employees, private employees, better technology, more efficiency, strengthened management and many other things, which, overall, are the things that give it better quality, rather than focusing unilaterally on a specific number of people who are on the back of the public service?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133812	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133813	My warmest regards to the questioner's wife. I have great respect for both her and her trade, and I know very well about having the wife on my neck, and in this kind of context you have to be very careful. I believe that all the points raised by the questioner are relevant, and I believe that there should be targeted investment in what we think is most important in our welfare society. The Left will not do so, and that is why the questioner starts by saying it is also quite wrong, namely that I know very well the economic policy of the Left and the policy of the Left on our health care. I don't, and nobody does outside the Left. It is possible that one knows it inside the Left, where one has a very closed circle about some things that, for God's sake, must not come out to the public. I do not know how much money the Left will spend on a better health care system, I do not know how much money the Left will spend on better care for the elderly, on our educations, on the people in Denmark who have the most difficulty. All I know is that overall it has to be zero, and that means that if you have to spend one more penny on something, you have to spend a penny less on something else. If you want to tell us at some point how it should work more precisely, I think there are many of us who will listen to interested parties, including those who have to point to the Left and the Left President as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133923	Thanks to the finance minister and improve with the fiber damage. Well, then, sir. Martin Henriksen a question to the Minister of Justice, which he will now read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133938	In view of the massive integration challenges facing Denmark, is the Minister prepared to discuss stricter rules in relation to refugees and immigrants coming from non-western countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133949	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318133950	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I am always prepared to discuss whether we can do things better. And not least in the area of integration, where the challenges are massive, there is always the basis for taking this discussion too. However, I would like to start by saying that I do not think, as the questioner does, that it makes sense to talk about non-Western immigration as something where everything is the same. We get relatively many immigrants to Denmark, also from non-western backgrounds that come here to work, contribute to Danish society, pay taxes and, moreover, actively engage at all possible levels in our society. After all, we have together made a major reform on international recruitment, where we have specifically helped Danish companies to recruit outside the EU for the areas where it is necessary. In this connection, we also stated jointly that we do not want to recruit workers, not least of an unskilled nature, from third world countries. In the same way, we also need to be careful not to generalise when we talk about refugees, because there is an historically high number of refugees worldwide and, of course, this also affects Denmark. We take the share we have to take, and we want to do so too. At the same time, we are very aware that things must be able to work in the country's municipalities, which is why we have tightened up in the area of asylum, moreover with the support of the Danish People's Party. Why am I saying this? Yes, I do, because the number, both in terms of refugees and family members and immigrants at all, has an impact on our ability and capacity to integrate them, and that is why the debate on numbers is of course essential, both when we talk about immigration and when we talk about refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134143	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134144	It is true that the group of non-Western groups consists of many different kinds of groups, but nevertheless I think it makes very good sense now to talk about restricting immigration from non-western countries. But I would like to sign for the Minister to be prepared, as I understood it, to discuss stricter rules. Can the Minister clarify in what areas the Minister is prepared to discuss tightening up the rules on foreigners against non-western immigrants or against certain groups coming from non-western countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134209	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134210	But we've just tightened up. We have tightened up the greencard system, which, in my view, attracted too much labour to areas where there was no documented need for it, and we could see that people came here, some of whom also had conditions which could not be translated into the Danish labour market. And that's a good example of a place where we've tightened up. On the other hand, we have made it easier for companies such as Grundfos, Danfoss, LEGO, Microsoft and others to attract labour, including those from third world countries that are needed. After all, in the area of asylum, we need to find a balance. We must help people who are in need, so people are not fleeing for fun, and when we have a Middle East that is on fire, then refugees will also come to Denmark. That is what we have to promise, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we also need to make things work in the municipalities of the country. So I follow the area closely all the time and, of course, constantly assess whether there is a need for change.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134310	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134311	I am well aware of the changes that have taken place in relation to the green card system and in relation to the area of asylum; we ourselves have been involved in this by the Danish People's Party. What is really at the heart here is that it hasn't moved the world. The second is that what I am asking is what the Minister will do in the future and that the Minister will then respond to what the Minister has done backwards. But what will the Minister do in the future? Because if the Minister is willing to discuss stricter rules with certain groups of people who come from non-western countries, then this is a question that applies in the future, and that is why the answer must also apply in the future. I would therefore like to hear what the Minister is prepared to do here and now or, if necessary, to call for negotiations. Because in the case of non-Western immigration, whatever adjustments have been made here and there in the area of asylum and aliens, it is just that it is an economic burden, and even those who are at work, there are some problems with, because they have difficulty falling into social and cultural terms in Danish society. So what will the Minister do in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134414	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134416	We have just presented today, on the part of the government, a major initiative on how to ensure that more people get to work. I think this is wise and good, and it is also necessary because, in my view, labour relations are the most important thing when we talk about integration. For me, it is quite fundamental that when you come to another country, you have to go to work and support yourself and your children. So the fact that we are now getting a sharper focus on the fact that people who come here must, of course, make an active contribution to our labour market, I think is a very, very important part of the solution. I cannot help but point out that even in the year 2014, when we had a great many asylum seekers because of the terrible situation in the Middle East, they were approx. 83% of the residence permits granted to EU citizens and others who came here to work. This means that even in a year when there are massive challenges to refugees, the vast majority of them come here to contribute precisely to our labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134519	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134521	It is a little comfort to say that yes, there are many refugees coming to Denmark, but don't worry, because there are many more of them coming. I mean, it's not exactly something that solves the problems. Well, I can't really see that. I therefore ask a rather simple question as to whether the Minister is prepared to discuss stricter rules in relation to immigration from non-western countries, and then the Minister answers that it is prepared to do so, and then the Minister explains what the government has done, and that is not very much. But that's okay, so we got that statement. Now the Minister says that there has been a move today in the field of integration, and that is true too, but it has nothing to do with tightening the rules in order to ensure that there are fewer people coming to Denmark. Therefore, the question remains and it would be nice if there could be an answer to it: will the government be involved in discussing how to get tighter rules on foreigners so that there will be fewer people coming to Denmark from non-western countries? And then we can discuss how to integrate those who come, but will the government help to ensure that there are fewer?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134620	Sometimes the government is just ahead of us, and we have just implemented austerity measures in the area of asylum, so that is where we have already taken the decisions we think are right. As I started by saying, I am always open to discussing whether we can do things wiser and better. That is why, as Minister for Employment, I have been behind a reform of international recruitment of workers from third world countries, a reform of which the Danish People's Party is a part. It was because I could see that the schemes did not work as intended and that, in a period of Danish unemployment, of course, it was wrong that we attracted what ended up becoming unskilled labour to the Danish labour market. This shows that we are constantly taking stock of the situation and reacting to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134704	I'm grateful to the Minister for Justice and thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6, it is for the Minister for Health and Prevention, and it is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134719	Thank you. Will the Minister explain why a citizen can risk having to pay his or her compensation back because the amount of the sum is recognised, and is it to be understood that a citizen can never complain about the amount of the compensation without risking losing it all, and does the Minister think that this is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134738	Thank you to the questioner. As I have already replied in writing to the questioner and the Committee on Health and Prevention on 3 March of this year on question 541, I cannot go into the specific matter which lies behind the question. However, I would like to stress that I always find it unsatisfactory when a person does not receive the health care treatment he or she expected and which an experienced specialist would have done. That is why I find it reassuring that, when the accident is out, we have the patient compensation scheme, in which it is, moreover, the case that the basis for liability and the rules of proof are less favourable to patients than they are in the general rules for compensation. Decisions of the Patient Compensation Board may be appealed against to the Appeal Board of the Patient Compensation Board. The Board of Appeal may confirm, revoke or amend the decision of the Patient Compensation Board and, in the utmost consequence, the compensation may be totally cancelled. When that happens, of course, it is a really sad experience for the person, the patient, who may already be in a difficult situation. However, I think there are two points to be borne in mind: firstly, that in the decision of the Patient Compensation Board the patient is clearly and clearly made aware of the possible consequences of the appeal by both parties; secondly, that the case in the Appeal Board is assessed both by experienced medical consultants, by representatives of patient organisations and others. And by a judge. Of course, the fact that the decision of the case can be reversed by an appeal body at 180 degrees may seem hard, but it is actually nothing new. This was also the case under the previous government and the government before it, and that is the basic principle when it comes to bringing cases before our courts. Therefore, I do not have any current plans to change the right of the Board of Appeal to confirm, revoke or amend the decisions of the Patient Compensation Board in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134942	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318134943	I understand that the Minister cannot go into the specific case, but the Minister must have an opinion on it, that is to say, whether the Minister considers it reasonable that, because the amount of the sum is recognised, it is not the decision that you are entitled to what you claim so that you are always in danger of getting the least payment in relation to it. Now I've been inside printing this out in relation to the Ankesaret for the Patient Replacement. And there is something in relation to the Board of Appeal, to the Board of Appeal for the Patient Compensation, about which part you then want to complain, for example. whether a complaint is made only in respect of part of the course of the proceedings or whether a complaint is made against the balance sheet. This note doesn't say that you're losing any of the money and that you can be taken off the whole amount if you complain about this. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that is fair. In other areas, it is the case, at least in relation to the Labour Damage Board, that once you have received your compensation, you cannot have it taken away again. It would be interesting if the Minister did not want to look in that direction and summon his colleagues or his colleagues in the Council for a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135104	I think it should be borne in mind in this context that a decision by the patient compensation can be appealed against by both parties to the proceedings, in other words both by the injured person, in this case the patient, and by the injured person, that is to say, the place of treatment, for example. the hospital, or whatever it may be, that caused the injury. I think it is important to be aware that the patient's replacement typically makes several decisions in the same case, for example. a decision on the basis of liability and then several decisions, it may be on different replacement items. If the patient then chooses to appeal against the decision on one of the replacement posts, the Board of Appeal shall take a decision on that question, but the Board of Appeal may also consider whether, for example, the basis for awarding compensation is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135155	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135156	I do not think I really received an answer to my question, whether the Minister intends to call some of his other colleagues to a meeting on this, because there is a big difference between how to deal with it. Another part of it is the long waiting times that are for this. I would ask the Minister to answer that question. Is it completely out of the question to look through this system carefully to find the best ways to ensure that the people who have been mistreated in the health system receive proper and reasonable treatment? It is deeply tragic that the regions are now putting their budgets behind this so that they can simply drag these citizens through the system. The regions save millions of dollars by depriving patients of their replacements. Berlingske Media has written about this on 23 February. Several regions simply anchor the cases of compensation in the hope of reducing or depriving patients of their already awarded compensations. At any rate, I think that the Minister should take this very seriously and do something about it, because I do not think it is right and proper that the citizens who have been through treatment and have been mistreated in our health system should be subjected to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135309	After all, it is not up to the regions to decide what the decision on a case might be. That is precisely the body which decides. And the Patient Offer has reported that in 2013 the name changed a total of 14 per cent. cases involving a position on the decision of the patient's replacement. It was 3.5%. ed change to the detriment of the patient. So the majority of the changes have not been detrimental to patients. Similarly, it was in 2014. There were 14.6 per cent. of cases changed and in 5.1%. Of the cases, it was to the detriment of the patients. So that is a third of the cases. So I think it is very risky if, as a region, you budget and organise your economy on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135403	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135405	I still do not think that I was given an answer as to whether the Minister thinks that this complaint about the amount of money is reasonable. It is not, of course, that it has been accepted that damage has been caused, but simply the amount of it. Does this mean that one can never complain about the amount of money, because then one simply risks having his entire compensation taken away? In this case, this citizen got a claim from the Region of Southern Denmark and had to pay DKK 270,000. Back up. It is money that has often been spent in order to make your everyday life easier. It can be for increased medical costs, it can be for a disabled car, it can be for housing changes. Does the Minister think that's fair? And does the Minister intend to do something about the regions doing this so that, what is to be said, the amount can be claimed back?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135506	But the crucial thing must be to have a case that is tried and then tested again by a sufficiently relevant body. This guarantees the legal certainty of guaranteeing that it is the substantively correct decision that will be taken. That is what matters to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135528	That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It is still gone to the Minister for Health and Prevention, and it is also by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135535	Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that patients who have been subjected for one reason or another to occupational injury or maltreatment in the health system should wait several years for a decision, and what will the Minister do to improve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135551	First of all, and I am sure the questioner is aware of the fact that, for the sake of good order, occupational injuries are not my area of responsibility, but are the responsibility of the Minister for Employment. In the health sector, which is my area of responsibility, patients have the opportunity to complain about the professional treatment in the health care sector to the Patient Information Office, i.e. to complain about, for example, the examination, diagnosis, treatment of the disease itself or record keeping. The tender was established in 2011, including: with the aim of creating a clear access to health care. In particular, the patient's care will be taken by the patient's care provider. complaints against specific healthcare professionals and treatment courses. The main objective is learning and preventing maltreatment. In addition, patients who are injured in the Danish healthcare system have the opportunity to seek compensation; this is what we talked about just now in the patient's replacement, which can provide compensation for, among other things. lost earnings, pain and pain as well as lasting but and reduced earning capacity. After all, the Danish patient insurance scheme is very beneficial to patients in several ways. The basis of liability and the rules of evidence are less stringent than those laid down in the general rules on compensation. Common to both the Patient Offers and the Patient Replacer is a strong desire on my part and on the part of the government for a quick procedure. In the case of the Patient Offer, the processing times are too long. That is unsatisfactory and something needs to be done about it. I have asked the Patient Offer for an action plan in order to reduce the processing times. We are also evaluating the patient complaint system and watching among other things. to optimize the procedures. I expect these initiatives to lead to a faster procedure. As far as the Patient Compensation is concerned, the Board of Directors has set out here as a target that the average processing time should be 200 days. In 2014, that objective was achieved. So, although we are not, of course, resting on the laurels, I do not see any reason at present for launching new initiatives for that part of the compensation system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135812	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135814	Well, things are related to different resorts. Because it is the case that the patient's replacement writes out to the citizens that the reason why no decision can be taken, for example. is that the Labour Damage Board has not made a decision on the loss of earning capacity, and that is how it commutes back and forth. So I appeal to the Minister to sit down with his colleagues in the Council and find a solution to these challenges. Because when the citizen has been exposed to this, it is also possible to wait and include it in the decision when they have completed their resource cycle. This means that in a resource cycle of up to 5 years, so that we can constantly shoot the case, and while these patients are in that situation. When there has been a medical error in the health system, it happens that in the first place you are in favour, but then the regions have found out that they think it is really interesting that they can now start on this and sort of get it into their budgets. Like you, you can complain the other way and then get the people's compensation, which they have been paid once, and then the citizens are in this situation, and I do not think that is what the Minister for Health wants either. I also believe that the Minister for Health wants the best for the citizens, and that is why it must be so, I think, that the Minister sits down with his ministerial colleagues and finds out how we can solve this in the best way possible for the citizens of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318135953	I did not really hear anything new about the issue that we were dealing with just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140003	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140004	Yes, but it is the case with the patient's replacement that they first have to wait for the Board of Occupational Injuries. Then it is important that the Minister for Health also speaks to the other minister. The Minister for Health refers again in an answer here to the fact that it also belongs to the Ministry of Justice, so the Minister must therefore sit down with his ministerial colleagues. Because there is only one loser in this, and it is the citizens who have been injured in the health system or have suffered an occupational injury. Then it's amazing that there has to be such a big difference. Then I would like to hear what the Minister will do about it in relation to the regions that are already beginning to, you might say, incorporate it into the budgets. They expect that they might be able to pick up 8.5 million. kr. It must be in the interests of the Minister of Health to act on this with all the citizens who get in trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140058	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140100	I have the interest that those citizens who have been mistreated and who have a claim for compensation should also receive the compensation they are entitled to, no more or less. I would not, if I were a region, budget to make money from a compensation system, because it is an objective assessment by some competent people of whether there is a basis for compensation and whether there are the other conditions for the person concerned to be compensated or not. This is not something the region can decide for itself. So I find it difficult to understand that the region had to move into this kind of budgeting, but it is the regions themselves that are controlling their own budgets.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140139	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140141	This cannot come as a surprise to the Minister for Health, for several patient associations and umbrella organisations have also been out to say that there are major challenges in the regions doing this. In fact, I would like the Minister to take action against the regions and raise his finger at them. The second is the length of the proceedings. Does the Minister not think that once a decision has been taken and the doctor has judged that it is a permanent injury and that the citizen is not getting any better, then there must also be an early payment of compensation? After all, there does not have to be so many years, the citizen does not have to wait for the process of resources to be clarified and such a commute back and forth. I would really like to hear exactly what concrete solutions the Minister has and whether the Minister will not sit down with his other colleagues of Ministers to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140245	I think we should ensure that there are as short processing times as possible. Of course, there may be circumstances which require statements to be made and what I know, which means that the procedure takes time. However, I think that when the patient replacement has said that you will have an average processing time of 200 days, and once you have reached the goal of this in 2014, it is a relevant way of managing it by the Patient Replacement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140312	That was the last answer to Question 7, so I would like to thank the Minister for Health and Prevention and to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Instead, I would like to welcome the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, who has to answer Question 8, which has been asked by Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140330	Does the Minister consider it realistic that the municipalities can integrate the many refugees and their accompanying family members?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140339	Thank you for the question. I know, sir. Martin Henriksen received a reply yesterday from me to another question, which was a written question about exit strategies, and that was a very short answer, and that was a 'no', and I could in fact do the opposite here and say 'yes', but that would of course be boring, because this contains a number of nuances. So I would like to start by telling you a little about the fact that, as the questioner is of course aware, we are facing some of the biggest global refugee flows in recent times, and this also means, on the other hand, that it creates an extraordinary situation with the many people who are fleeing in these years because of the unrest in Syria. Although this is just a small share coming to Denmark in relation to the overall world picture, it does not of course change that it creates some challenges for the municipalities and it is clearly also some major challenges to have to receive and integrate so many refugees. But at the same time it is a task and of course we should welcome that as the municipalities themselves have been out to say that they are able to lift, and I am of course very, very pleased about that. Having said that, the government has taken the challenge very seriously. We have listened to the municipalities and we help the municipalities. There is an understanding between the government and KL about the area of integration from the beginning of January. There is a very concrete expression of this, and the government and the KL agree here on a number of measures to make it easier for municipalities to handle the task of receiving and finding accommodation for newly arrived refugees, and I will come back to that. It is precisely today that the government, as I am sure the questioner is also aware, has presented its new integration initiative. It is an exercise in which we make demands on the individual, on the need to contribute to society and on the need to become part of society, both in relation to the newcomers and also immigrants who are still not part of Danish society. Unfortunately, we have not been good enough to get immigrants into employment and subsequently integrate them into Danish society, which is why we are also focusing on the fact that we need more immigrants in employment. This must be done primarily by strengthening and targeting the integration programme. At the same time, we also give a boost to the integration efforts of the municipalities, among others. through a partnership between the government and the municipalities. I think we have laid a very good foundation for future integration efforts, including in the municipalities, and of course I have full confidence that the municipalities will get that job done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140621	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140622	Thank you. A few minutes ago, the Minister for Justice was also down here in the Chamber in Parliament's Question Time, and then the Minister said quite clearly that the government does not want to tighten foreign policy, but it is as it is, it is the line that lies and it is followed. That also means finding some good answer in terms of integrating the many people who will inevitably come when we do not want to tighten asylum and immigration policy, and that is what the government has tried to give an answer to today. I understand that the Minister is saying that it is But has the Minister given any thought as to what consequences it has for ordinary people in Danish society? Because when it's like that, for example... as a fugitive has the right to be assigned a residence and I understand that the government also has a bill on the way, which extends the municipal authorising right to public housing. Then it will mean that there are Danes who have been on the waiting list for a long time, who will be skipped into the queue. Is it a good way to solve the problem that you take some people who have been on a waiting list for a long time and have a reasonable expectation that now they could get a home, and then they are suddenly pushed down the list or they are overtaken by some who have just come to Denmark? Is that a good way to solve the problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140741	A good way of solving the problems is precisely what we have agreed with the KL, namely the establishment of, among other things. a housing exchange, which can form the framework for contact between Danes and refugees, and, as such, another element that can also be used, namely changes in the planning law and, as such, that people in some places can live together. This will ease the pressure and it is a very good way to do it, and I have no doubt for a second that it will help to solve the task that is great, and I think again that we should also listen a little to the municipalities. Because they themselves say that they can and that they want to, and I think that is important to include in this whole recital. So yes, I believe in it, and I also believe in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140834	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140835	It is fine to listen to the municipalities, but you just have to understand that they have a task to which they are desperate to find solutions. I am almost tempted to say that whatever you give them, they will accept it. I guess KL isn't so stupid that after making an agreement with the government, they go out and say that this is basically not something that solves the problems. I don't think so. But there are also some others that you have to listen to, and it's the ordinary people who get hit by this. They are the ones who have been on waiting lists and who suddenly see that someone else is coming from outside just skipping them. What's the answer to them? Is the answer that there are streams of refugees out in the world, so you're gonna have to deal with that? Is that the answer? That is fair enough, but I do not think it is an answer that can be given. But if that is the government's answer, say it clearly so that people know what they have to deal with. I think it's unfair that I actually think it's unsympathetic. Looking at the fact that the government has put forward a plan to send some money to the municipalities in relation to getting refugees into employment, I also think that the government should be honest and say: okay, then we give priority to this area. But that also means that there are a lot of other things you cannot prioritise, because you just let go and accept that there are as many people coming to Denmark as there are now, without wanting to limit the flow. This means that the effort towards the Danes, who would also be able to enter the labour market, cannot be made anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318140948	That's very interesting, because Mr. Martin Henriksen asks both a question and answers, and then it becomes a little difficult to be a minister, because then things become quite superfluous, and then it doesn't matter that I am standing here. So I choose to listen to the question and then disregard the answer that Mr. Martin Henriksen himself came with us. Firstly, I would like to refer once more to the municipalities. They say they can do this. Secondly, we are actually finding some new opportunities, also to address those challenges. I've noticed that the Danish People's Party likes to patent this thing with ordinary people, where the rest of us stay in the category of not ordinary people, but I just want to say to Mr. Martin Henriksen's perhaps great surprise: We also listen to ordinary people, and the ordinary people represented by both the Danish Red Cross and Danish Refugee Aid and also others say that there is a willingness in the municipalities to take on the task here, not only by the municipalities, but also by quite ordinary people. And it's something that's really, really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141052	I have to say that the Minister started by wanting to give a very short answer. Subsequently, neither he nor the author of the question has distinguished himself by being brief. When I stand up, it is because I have exceeded my speaking time. I know I'm so low you can miss it, but you don't have to do that. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141108	I have received, Mr President. Now it is the case that if the Minister does not provide the good answers, then we must see if we can help the Minister a little from the Danish People's Party. There is so little difficulty in getting the Minister to listen to the good answers from the Danish People's Party, we think. However, I agree that the Minister is also listening to ordinary people, and I agree that there are also ordinary people who would like to be active in volunteering for refugees and such things, I fully agree with that, but one of the issues that I am dealing with, among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: to a home, in the belief that at some point it was their turn, and they have been given the prospect that next time it is their turn, then they get a home, but then someone comes and overtakes them in the home queue? What is the message to them? Is that fair to the Minister? Does the Minister think it is reasonable to spend a lot of money integrating the many people who come to Denmark, that it then goes from something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141202	Well, I'd like to say to sir. Martin Henriksen, that I have just said because I have replied that we have drawn up a partnership agreement with KL, where there is a cascade of very good ideas which must help to remedy the situation which Mr. Martin Henriksen mentioned it. And I think that somewhere is an expression of due diligence. You had the chance to do the same thing in the '00s, but you didn't, but now we're doing it, and I think somewhere we've found a really, really good place to stand with KL. And again, KL says they can do this, and I really want to trust that, and I have no doubt that they can do it when they say it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141242	That was the last answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9, which is also for the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, but now it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard from the Danish People's Party who is asking questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141256	Thank you. Will the Minister explain whether the government considers it acceptable for nine out of ten municipalities to cut care for the elderly, where the cost of care for the elderly is per year? Citizen in the last 5 years overall has fallen by 11.4%. at national level?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141311	Thank you for the question. It's actually a complicated question. But let me start by stating that older citizens must, of course, have the help they need and that the help provided by the municipalities must match the individual needs of the individual. Of course. The municipalities cannot cut down on aid over a broad comb. In each case, municipalities must ensure that aid meets the needs of the citizens. Then I think we should also make it clear that in 2015 the municipalities are budgeting as much money for older people's services as in 2014. Let me repeat this: in 2015, municipalities budget as much money for older people's services as in 2014. In addition, there is the older billion, which cannot be read in the budget. I assume that the question is based on a study mentioned in the newspaper Municipality, which shows that the cost of care for the elderly has fallen per year. older citizen. I do not think that the equation can be set up so simply, that is, by looking only at the number of older people, and that is where the complexity comes in, as I started by saying. Because all older people don't cost the same. The elderly today are healthy for a long time, and in recent years, in particular, there have been more of the younger elderly in the 65-79 age group. And I think we all agree that just because you're 65 doesn't mean you're weak and you need home help right away. Of course, the municipalities take this into account precisely when they draw up their budgets. At the same time, we also know that in the last five years there has been a greater focus on rehabilitation and self-help in the municipalities, and that developments in welfare technology have also contributed in many places to a more independent everyday life for older citizens. I do not see rehabilitation, self-help or the use of welfare technology as a cynical austerity scheme, on the contrary. Too far, the vast majority of people want to be helped to be able to fend for themselves and live a life in accordance with their own desires and values. It gives the quality of life to be able to remain master in your own life, and that at the same time the municipalities can see the effect of e.g. rehabilitation and self-help, because there is less spending on home help, I think that is a positive side effect. That is why, together, through the agreement on future home help, we have also supported aid for the self-help agenda in the municipalities, where, among other things, we have supported. has ensured better and more systematic help for self-help.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141541	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141543	Thank you. This is among other things. Some information from the newspaper Municipality, but it has been an ongoing debate that has been on this subject, and I have also confronted the Minister before, because I think it is a little worrying that you can experience these savings. Now the minister says he can't see it in the budgets. I am also aware of a study by the FOA trade union, which says that it can actually be seen that the municipalities are budgeting EUR 1.37 billion. kr. less on the elderly compared to last year. So I would really like to hear the Minister's comments on this. Is it some wrong calculations the FOA has made in relation to that, so it's not this number that's the correct one at all? Does the Minister consider that additional funds are actually being allocated to the area? I cannot quite reconcile that with the fact that we very often get these reports about the elderly, whose help is being reduced. The Minister may say in his introduction that older people must have the help that can now meet the needs of the citizen, but we also know that, apart from the fact that there is a group of elderly people who are resourceful and who can do many things, we have a large group of very weak elderly people that we have to deal with. And when we repeatedly hear that you, for example, are... If you have reduced your home help, that you cannot get a bath very often, that you cannot change your bedlinen very often, that you have to wear filled diapers etc., then it is then that as a politician I have a concern that this is happening in a welfare society such as the Danish one. Then it is, of course, that I think it would be very interesting for us to get the debate up a little bit in relation to this, precisely to focus on whether the Minister really considers it acceptable that we have these reports and how they are in harmony with the fact that we are hearing that, as the Minister says, there are no savings now. I cannot really reconcile it, and there I would like the Minister to answer at least, contrary to what happened in the previous question, where the minster perhaps felt that an answer came from it. I would like the answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141738	Well, let me try to help it a little bit, because I think you're gonna mix things up a little. I totally agree, and I do not like those reports either, for example. About the diaper thing or about the older ones that are... Yes, we know the examples. That does not mean that it has something to do with the economy, and that is something we must also talk about in the next question, and that could be something about the guidelines and so on. If we take and look at the buckle of the elderly, we see, as I also said, that when the new elderly, the 65-79-year-olds here, they are better at themselves than you were 40 years old or just 5 years ago. This means, of course, that the efforts that have been made with rehabilitation and welfare technology work. And on the other hand, it means, of course, that you don't have to spend as much money as you might have to spend in the past. But more money has been added, and in concrete terms we have added 1 billion. kr. Every year forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141843	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141844	I was actually hoping for a slightly different type of answer in relation to this. I would like to ask you very specifically whether that is to say that the Minister does not, in fact, recognise the calculations made by the FOA, the statements that come from the Elders case, for example. in relation to savings in that area. Again, I would like to reiterate that I recognise that there is a group of elderly people who are resourceful in many different areas and can manage themselves, but we also have a large group of weak elderly people, and these are the ones that I am quite concerned about in relation to this. This is also what we can see in FOA's reports, and we can see it in the Elder Case. In addition, there is the whole question of how many home help hours there are, for example. has been saved away. After all, it has been suggested that up to 5 million hours have been saved since 2008, and I would also like to hear the Minister's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318141932	Well, it makes sense that the home help hours will be reduced when a rehabilitating effort is made at the same time. That is also why we have made our big proposal together, where exactly the rehabilitation is a core point, a focal point. Let me give you a concrete example if I can reach it: it could be an old man who, in general, has done very well, he breaks his leg, becomes really, really dependent on home help, perhaps many times a day, and it is clear that it will cost a lot of home help lessons. If that man gets rehabilitation and gets help to go and so on, it actually means he doesn't need home help, because then he can put on his own clothes, even drive down to the elderly center on his scooter etc. I think that is logic, and that means that less home help hours should be spent on him, and that is what rehabilitation somewhere in its simplicity is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142038	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142040	Yes, now it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard who is asking the question and asking for answers, I can then say to the President. Sorry, I am very sorry, Mrs Karin Nødgaard). I'd like to hear something. When the Minister says this here, I would say that this is not a question of rehabilitation, we have taken that discussion, and we even agreed, and it was written in that it should not be a saving exercise. And now the Minister can almost simply answer with a yes or a no, but I would like to hear: is there no question at all that the municipalities are saving in relation to the elderly so that we can see that the elderly are suffering from a deterioration in conditions? I would like to hear that, because I think that right now we are getting some reports that savings are being made. And with the broken legs, I can't use much either. Because it is probably something that happens frequently over the decades that some have broken their leg, and that is not where I think we could get 5 million saved hours in home care.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142125	I shall confine myself to calling the Minister the Minister, and there will be no mistake there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142127	Then I think we can all be in it as long as I'm not called Karina Adsbøl, I'm pretty happy too. I do not think that is fair, because Mrs Karin Nødgaard asks me quite specifically about the 5 million hours, and then I answer it, and then it is as if it were not. But there's no point in not liking the answers. We just have to admit that we disagree, and there must be room for that disagreement. I am just saying that rehabilitation, welfare technology and the approach that has been changed over the last 10-15 years in relation to access to the elderly, the undoubtedly means that more older people will be able to cope better with themselves, and that means precisely that fewer hours are spent on the elderly. And the new group of older people is It also means, in all its simplicity, that fewer resources are needed there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142232	That was the last answer to question 9. We move on to Question 10, which is still addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, and this is by Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142242	What does the government intend to do to prevent future incidents where a citizen can lie helpless 3 days without being found, despite the fact that there have been municipal employees in the home?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142254	Thank you again for the question. I assume that it is the deeply tragic events that we have heard about in the media over the last week that are the reason for this issue. I should like to begin by saying that, like the questioner, I also find what has happened in these cases both disturbing and critical. I simply do not understand how it can happen that you do not, as the most natural greeting to the elderly, when you enter their homes, and that, of course, you react quickly if you cannot get in touch. This is basically about morality and morality, and it's about using your common sense in your work. It is very, very clear that this has not happened here, and it is totally unacceptable, and it must, of course, give rise to thorough self-examination by the individual municipality and the management when such a thing happens. It is the management of the individual home care unit who is responsible for ensuring that employees have the right values and attitudes in relation to the work with older people and that employees know the internal guidelines for how to react if, for example, the elderly person is older. Don't open the door when you knock. I do not think this is something that we should solve with more rules here from Christiansborg, because we can see in the cases we are talking about, that there was indeed a serious lesson in these matters that both the municipalities, the management and the employees should take on board, and that is why I am really glad that both the municipalities and the FOA have responded and assumed responsibility for looking after themselves, so that we can avoid these matters in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142442	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142444	Thank you. Well, it is very, very good that the Minister is saying that we may not have to do so much, but I have nevertheless learned that there are some things that make it possible that there may not have been official errors in this area, because the person who has entered the home did not actually have guidelines which the Minister mentions about having to react. I therefore think it might be interesting to hear the Minister also a little on the basis of such a specific case, but I have also heard about it in other contexts of emergency call alarms whether the Minister could not make contact with, for example. KL and say that the reports, for example. is on the websites of some municipalities that if, for example, a citizen... can handle a mobile phone, the citizen cannot be equipped with an emergency alarm, does not go. I do not think that is at all in harmony with that, because one thing is to be on your right mind and be able to use your mobile phone, but something else is, if you have fallen down, it is probably a little harder, whether you are older or one of us, to handle a mobile phone and get a text message to the right one, etc. Why, as a minister, can we perhaps not send out some signals to the KL that the municipalities must not go in and say that people should not be equipped with an emergency call alarm if, for that matter, a citizen or the relatives have expressed their wish? That was one side of the coin. The second is that the minister says that the municipalities have some internal guidelines, but does this mean that there are in fact no uniform guidelines in all municipalities, so that in a municipality, based on the guidelines that exist in the municipality, you can well lie for 3 days without a mistake, whereas in another municipality it is a mistake if you have not had contact with the citizen the first time you enter the home? I can see that I have a little more time, which is why I would like to hear a little more about these emergency alarms, because there has actually been a little talk that many elderly people are insecure that they cannot get one and then choose to buy one for themselves. What is the Minister's position on this? It was like three different parts of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142648	Those were many parts, I think, but also sensible parts. To the first question, whether there are municipalities where you can lie for 3 days is the answer: you cannot do that in any way. But I would like to read something to Mrs Karin Nødgaard, because I just stumbled over the debate that was on TV 2. It says: "More users point out that it is not necessarily a lack of resources that causes cases like this. And that is the matter that we referred to earlier. There is another citizen who writes: "More staff will not solve a problem like this. There must be a change of attitude on the part of the staff. After all, there were two housekeepers who rang and left without responding. Evidently, it is not concern for the elderly that characterizes them. She is supported by others who have been quoted and now I read it out, and I will sit down for the following: "It has nothing to do with resources! If the two employees had only followed the procedure in that municipality, the man would probably have been found before! The rules are there and the resources are there. It's about a thought that wasn't there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142808	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142809	In principle, it could have been quite interesting if we had had a SOSU employee who had stood here instead of me, who could then have put some follow-up questions to the Minister in relation to it, because I do not really think that is what the SOSU assistant might always see, so that, just knowing that they have that thought, they have plenty of time to be able to go in and ask a citizen, and what I think actually also applies to the previous question, where we talked about savings and so on. But the Minister did not comment on it in relation to emergency alarms, which I actually think is quite important, and here I think the Minister could play a role in relation to the KL and send the signal that it must never be something that can be denied to a citizen. Because that's actually what can make the difference between life and death.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142849-2	On the point of sending that signal, I would like to take a closer look at it, because I did not think we were going to talk about that part, i.e. about these alarms. So I'd like to take a look at that before I respond to it, and then I promise Mrs. Karin Nødgaard, and Mrs. Karin Nødgaard also knows that I usually keep up with the fact that I will follow it up with exactly these alarms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142915	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318142916	I appreciate that very much, and I shall wait for it. But it is in the specific case, that if the citizen had just been equipped with it, then perhaps he could have actually been saved and lived to this day. But then I would also like to hear from the Minister about the staff situation. Because it is the case that the Minister says in this way that it has nothing to do with staff, but that it has something to do with a change of attitude. Well, I am not quite sure that I agree with that, because I just know that the staff are really under pressure and that in the given example it was actually told that the person who then came into the home did not have an obligation to respond, and then I would like to hear: could the Minister imagine that it was somewhat differentiated in relation to the citizens to whom a helper comes in, so that one can say that there may be some who are very self-reliant they may be out of the house and they should not be at home waiting, for example. 3 hours on a food delivery • where in another group there may be some that you know need to be kept a little eye on, while a third group were those that we would call bedridden, so that perhaps the government should also send some slightly softer signals to the municipalities that they should take that into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143021	I would rather be leaning on what I said earlier, which I am really happy about, namely that both the municipalities are two different cases and also the FOA have responded very, very appropriately to this and have assumed responsibility, and that they have also said that they would look for themselves in the seams. That's one. In one case, there were two who came out, and there was no lack of resources, because the two people should have reacted in a different way. It is the case in these cases, but also in others, that if, for example, there is one. is a sign of untouched food, so must one slip away)... yes, completely, and that is not good. If you can't get in, you have to contact the next of kin. So there's what's just a shame and I know that we agree on that is that they haven't followed those rules, and that's what frustrates us. Fortunately, however, the FOA and the municipalities have said: we take on this; we take on responsibility and we respond to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143130	Thank you to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Affairs. That was the last answer to Question 10 and also thank you to Mrs Karin Nødgaard. We now need to change both the questioner and the minister, because the next minister is the Minister for Transport, and the questioner is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143147	Thank you for that, and the question is this: does the Minister consider it reasonable when the rules for signage at motorway exits are so rigid that the Road Directorate removes a road sign with a set of cutlery that signals the eating place because it is a danger to road safety, but at the same time leaves a road sign with a bed that signals accommodation in the same place as we have seen at Purhus Kro?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143212	Thank you very much for the question. I would first like to say a little in general about our rules. It is the case that the rules of motorway departures, that is to say, their signage, are administered on the basis of a principle that information should be provided, but that the amount of different information should be limited on the signs. It is simply that it should not be incalculable and that it should not distract unnecessarily so that, as a driver, you can focus on driving above all else; it is a completely overall safety principle that we have. Therefore, there is a general rule that we guide to service facilities located on the side of the motorway, i.e. what we call rest areas, and these are cafeterias, tanks and rest areas. However, there is an exception to the general rule, which is that certain special suitable accommodation destinations close to the motorway can be routed, and this is due to the fact that we in the country do not have accommodation on the sidelines. If there is no road to these accommodations, we run the risk that road users will simply drive on, even if you are tired because you do not want to sleep in the car and it is not durable. The fatigue itself is one of the major road safety problems, so it is important that there is this signage. I would now like to turn to the specific example that the questioner raises, namely Purhus Kro, and I agree with the questioner that this is perhaps a special situation here. The sign indicating the dining place has been set up many years ago. And then it was some sort of administrative error. Last year the Road Directorate then removed the sign there without warning to bring it into line with the rules in force. Following this, the Road Directorate has changed its practice, so that changes to signage to restaurants on the motorway network will first consult the companies concerned in order to ensure good administrative behaviour, and I think that is sensible. But this has not happened in connection with the sign here to Purhus Kro, and I can therefore inform the honourable Member that the Vejdirektoratet will put the sign in question indicating a place to eat again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143426	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143428	Then I'm a happy man. Thank you, Minister. I am really, really glad that we are now putting up the sign because, as the Minister himself has said, it has actually been there for over 20 years, as I am familiar with it. And the sudden removal of one, but at the same time leaving the property's badge, I have never seen as a simple solution to the fact that it should be more roadworthy than that. We don't have to do this far. I'm really happy. I got it out of what I wanted, namely that the sign is now coming up. Can the Minister tell us how quickly this will be? It is not because the Minister has to set a date, but is it within this year or how and how? At least I think Purhus Kro will be really, really happy about such a message.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143512	It is a good thing that you can also give a specific answer to some questions and that it will be endorsed. Thank you. I am not aware of the actual timetable, and although things take time, including in transport policy, I do not assume that it will take more than a year to retrofit a sign that was there quite recently. So it happens as soon as possible. This has just been prompted by this question, so thank you for raising the question here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143541	I don't have any more. I would just like to thank the Minister very much, and that was very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143544	Then we can conclude Question Time in a good mood with great results, and that is wonderful. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143555	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318143622	Thank you. Today we are discussing L 141, which is proposed construction law for a fixed connection over the Fehmarn Belt. This is done on the basis of the Treaty between Denmark and Germany from September 2008 and the design law that we subsequently adopted here in the Danish Parliament in 2009. In addition, L 142 proposes to abolish the special tax rules for the transfer of losses from the holding company A/S Storebæltsforbindelsen and the A/S Øresundsforbindelsen in the Act on Sund & Bælt Holding A/S. In addition, the abolition of the special tax rules on loss carry forward for Femern A/S and Femern Landanlæg A/S is proposed. The companies will in future be subject to the general tax rules so that losses will in future be carried forward and deducted in accordance with the general tax rules of the Corporate Tax Act. The Construction Act empowers Femern A/S and Femern Landanlæg A/S to build and operate a barely 18 km long lowering tunnel under Fehmarn Bælt and related landworks in Denmark. The enormously long lowering tunnel must be built and operated together with other related project elements in the form of landfilling, tunnel element factory etc., then called the Fehmarn Belt tunnel; we also call it the coast of the coastal project. In addition, the Construction Act will authorise an upgrade of the railway from Vordingborg to Masnedø and from Orehoved to south of Holeby to a double-track railway that is electrified and upgraded. A passenger-facing station is established at Holeby on Lolland to accommodate regional rail traffic, and a new railway bridge is established over Masnedsund and a single-track rail plunder bridge at Guldborgsund. It is a very comprehensive project. Finally, the Construction Act provides for the implementation of environmental measures on the South Motorway and the establishment of a new bridge over the South Motorway at Lundegårdsvej. A fixed link over Fehmarn is a very visionary project that will future-proof an important transport corridor between Scandinavia and Germany. Travel times on the road and runway will be significantly shorter, resulting in positive economic effects. The Fehmarn Belt link is expected to yield a net social gain of 26 billion. kr. corresponding to a socio-economic return of just over 5%. a year. This means that Denmark can look forward to becoming a richer nation as a result of this project, just as we have become it on the basis of the Storebælt link. The net gain is mainly due to the significant travel time saving both on the road and on the runway. There is also the flexibility that will result for cars, lorries, buses and train passengers when there is a fixed link. For example, freight traffic will: could save 160 km of by-pass, one might say, via the Storebælt Bridge, and not least the South Sea Islands and South Zealand can expect to have significant derived growth and employment. For the coast-to-coastal project Femern A/S has set up a construction budget of 55 billion. kr. including reserves of 3.7 billion. kr. It is drawn up on the basis of the tenders received for four tunnel contracts. However, the priced bids are significantly higher than expected and therefore, at the request of the Minister and the Conciliation Committee, Femern A/S will now enter into a negotiating dialogue with the contractors with a view to reducing construction prices. The Fehmarn project must be financed through user charges. Under current economic conditions, the expected repayment period is 39 years. This means that we are still in the green area. The left will not go into yellow or red, so there is a risk that taxpayers will have to pay part of the project. So it is still a clear condition for the tunnel and associated landworks that there should be one hundred per cent user funding. Nor is it acceptable if money is to be transferred from Storebælt. There are waterproof bulkheads between the two connections. However, three uncertainties have arisen about the project. The first is that supply prices were 9 billion. kr. higher than expected. They must now be negotiated down, among other things. by allowing a longer construction period. The second uncertainty is the timetable for the German authority's approval, which remains uncertain. Of course, we need more clarity about that. And the third uncertainty is that we do not yet know exactly how much we get in EU support for the project. The project is very low in the European Union, but of course we do not know the answer to the application that has just been sent a few weeks ago. We'll do that after the summer break. It is therefore the expectation that in six months' time we will have rid ourselves of these uncertainties. That is also the prerequisite for us to press the start button and sign a contract with the contractors to build the giant tunnel. We will be on safe and solid ground before launching a project of more than 60 billion. kr. It makes sense for the whole process and the timetable that we are dealing with the construction law this spring, so that we do not lose some time. But it is crucial that we do not do so until the autumn if the three uncertainties mentioned have been eliminated. Once again, I would like to make it clear that the Fehmarn project is a visionary and good project, and that is why we in the Left sincerely hope that the uncertainties that have arisen will be eliminated so that we can safely press the starting button in the autumn. With these comments, the Left supports the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144238	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144242	I am pleased that the rapporteur of the Left recognises that there are many uncertainties about this project and, of course, I do not share the extreme optimism that they will have to be eliminated in six months' time. Of course you can hope for that, but there is no such indication. I'd like to ask you something. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that the payback time is calculated for 39 years, and we are still away in the green field, and the Left will not participate in the yellow or red field. Where's the yellow field for the left? Where's the red field for the left? What's it gonna be for a number of years before the Left says no to this project?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144325	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144326	I understand, sir. Henning Hyllested is interested in the red field, but I'll be happy to clarify it. We have that rule of thumb in the Left, and I think it's also in other places... that as long as we're under 40 years old, we're in the green field, so we're on safe ground to avoid taxpayers having to pay. When we're between 40 and 50 years old, we're in the yellow field, then there's starting to be a little rocking ground. When we get over 50 years, we're in the red, and we have to stay completely away from that. That's what I mean by that. But I disagree when Mr. Henning Hyllested says that those uncertainties may not have been eliminated at all by autumn, because in the autumn we know the exact construction price. Negotiations are under way to bring it down. We know exactly how much we get from the European Union for this construction budget, and we know that very clearly in the autumn, and hopefully we also know what the situation is on the German side with regard to authority approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144419	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144421	Well then, I would like to welcome the fact that I am, indeed, sure that the Left will be in the yellow field in a relatively short period of time. I am actually in no doubt about that with all the uncertainties we face. I would just like to ask: if the calculations are not at all controversial, can the calculations of both the economy, the traffic forecasts and the economy not be called into question at all? Doesn't the massively elevated prices we've experienced at the tunnels at all get the Left to stop and say: okay, maybe we should have this looked through again?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144500	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144501	That's exactly what we do by saying that now we have ice cream in our stomachs and wait just six months before we finally take a position to press the start button. And then I would like to make it clear that there are very, very thorough calculations and analyses on the basis of all of this decision-making base. It's the highest expertise from Germany that's done these calculations. Of course, you can always ask questions about it, and there will be, and that is positive, because we must have turned every stone in this case, and that is something that can be done in the legislative process. Therefore, nothing should be stuck under the chair here, because we will be on safe ground before we press the start button hopefully this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144538	Then I can say thank you very much to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, there are no more brief remarks. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144552	The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, has examined in a quite reasonable and competent manner the more technical aspects of this proposal, so I will try to make some political comments on why it is an incredibly strong and visionary plan that is being put forward here, with legislative proposals on the construction and operation of a fixed link over the Fehmarn Belt. This is something we have been talking about and discussing for many years now, and it is of course about, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, that we want to bind Europe closer together and ensure a sensible transport corridor from Scandinavia down to Germany, and that with an environmental perspective we want to ensure that much more of our freight transport passes on to electric trains. Instead of filling the motorways with heavy goods vehicles, it is much better for the environment to get it onto electric trains. It is a strong environmental vision for us that we can secure it, and that is what we are doing with this proposal. In fact, it is really a very good example of when society operates politically in the best way. In fact, there is something Thorvald Stauning about what we are doing here. Just as Thorvald Stauning stood with his cigar and opened the Lillebælt link and Storstrøm connection and in itself used the community and society as a kind of locomotive to pull Denmark out of the 1930s crisis, we now choose with the Fehmarn Belt connection to be visionary and use each other to solve the problems we have in society and to pull Denmark out of the crisis. When we have too much congestion on the roads, when we have too much CO2 when we have people who are unemployed, we should try to see if we can get them employed in some construction projects, move people from the unemployment queue into active employment, and that is what we are going to do with this project. In fact, when it is that we invest so heavily and ambitiously in tying Denmark together with Germany with a Fehmarn connection, there are also very many people who come to work. We work with social clauses where it is written that it is Danish pay and working conditions that must apply, but also that the entrepreneurs involved must take Danish boys and girls as apprentices so that they can get an apprenticeship. In fact, it is estimated that there are up to 500 people who can call home the family and say that they have now got an apprenticeship because they have been engaged in much of the construction work that needs to be done here. So it's an amazingly good story we're gonna start here. Then we know that there are many different stakeholders who are busy looking at the problems and, of course, always have to be responsive to that. I must just remind you that I think we have had an incredibly good, thorough process in which all the stones have been turned. It was in the Engineer here last week that there had been no consulting engineers on board at all, but I have checked that out and there have been several, among others. COWI and Rambøll, and when they were finished, they exchanged reports and had to criticize each other with second and third opinions. So you've been more thorough than you've been with any other projects. So now is the time to take a decision to use society and the community as a locomotive to move forward, to set a good agenda for the environment, for the climate, for employment, for education, and that is what we are doing with this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144941	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318144944	I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn, if it holds true when he emphasizes that with this project we are moving a lot of traffic from road to runway. I guess that's come to mind, sir. Rasmus Prehn, that the German railway station is delayed by between 3 and 6 years, depending on who you ask, and that of course it is a major handicap for the railway. I would remind you that when the Storebælt link was established, it was agreed that the railway section should be completed, I think it was a few years before the road section, or at least one year, in order to gain time, so that people could also get used to using the railway. As you know, this did not happen because the tunnel pipes were filled with water at some point. But the same applies here. So what is the situation when the German railway station is extremely late? Does it really not have the exact opposite effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145051	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145052	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there is no doubt that we are not embarking on such a large and ambitious and visionary project as this without there being problems and challenges as well. I know that Enhedslisten has made it such a special discipline to focus on all the problems that may be in the options. As Social Democrats, we like to look at opportunities in these problems. It is true that there has been a rather sluggish process in getting things going, including in Germany by rail. However, the latest new thing I have heard is that the Germans have completely stamped into the project and that, in such a way, they are going to want an even more ambitious solution, because they say that when we have to bridge the gap between countries, and if we are going to ensure that this vision becomes something, we want to do it in the best possible way. That is why they are, in fact, proposing a more ambitious plan for the railways than had otherwise been planned. And yes, it takes so little longer, so we'll have to wait a little, but then it'll be better than what was expected in the first place. I think that is something to be welcomed. And I can also look at mr. Henning Hyllested, that he's having a hard time holding back his smile, because it's positive with all this railroad, it's a strong project, so it's hard to come up with arguments against.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145207	Yeah, well, you shouldn't be fooled by people smiling. Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145211	If it had only been a rail-only connection, I would certainly have been more positive. When we focus on the problems, it is precisely because we are worried about the project and whether it really lasts at the end of the day and that we do not suddenly stand and have to write out a huge bill to taxpayers. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left and also from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn said a little about it when it comes to turning every stone around, and criticism is positive, of course I very much agree with that. But then I am a little surprised that I have encountered massive opposition in the Committee on Transport, in that we are holding a hearing during the committee's work, in which we hear both critics and supporters of the project presenting their very, very different calculations. I do not think that is entirely related to what I hear from the platform now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145304	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145305	I appreciate the cooperation with Enhedslisten and Mr. Henning Hyllested incredibly much. Because there is no doubt that no matter what project you put forward, you will not get through with it without it having been through a true acid bath of critical questions. Once, sir. Hyllested in shelter of night has sat and asked the first 500 questions, so you are sure that nothing has passed his nose, and then when you come out on the other side, there is an almost as good as bulletproof project. That is also why we have said that we have now discussed, and we have discussed, and Mr. Henning Hyllested has asked many questions in several rounds, so now we think the time has come to act and not to talk. I don't really know which alternative Enhedslisten has gotten you almost a little feeling that Mr. Henning Hyllested sees for himself an army of water bikes where he and his comrades can ride back and forth without tax free.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145401	That's the last of it, sir. Rasmus Prehn was given the opportunity to say in this round. We welcome the next rapporteur. It's sir. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145416	At the time when Dansk Folkeparti joined the settlement for a Fehmarn connection, we assumed that prices had to be obtained before submitting a construction bill. It's kind of a new way of doing things, but it's turned out to be really wise to do things that way. We are incredibly happy about that today, because with 80% knowledge. We therefore have a cut in the budget of just under 9 billion. kr. That's quite a lot of money. The amount can be kept within the reserves, because fortunately we in the Committee on Transport are so wise that we set 30%. There is also the good thing about the 30% that, if things go well, they usually run back into the box, and we can then use them for other good things. As others have said, we do not know the amount of EU aid, we do not know the amount of it yet, we are hoping for maximum aid, and it seems that we have been helped by a sensible interest rate which means that the repayment period can still be kept at 39 years. Nevertheless, we believe that there is real concern, and that is also why, in the conciliation circle, we have sent Sund & Bælt home to take a round of negotiations with the contractors to see where savings can be found, because savings need to be found. That is precisely in relation to the 9 billion. kr., there is currently a slip on the incoming bids. It would have been nice if that money had rolled back in the box. Let me just briefly sum up what we could get for 9 billion. kr. We could, for example. expand the E20 on West Funen on the last piece, we could complete the Frederikssund motorway, we could extend the E45 up to Randers etc. etc. So there is cause for concern. 9 billion kr. is a lot of money. There's plenty of waiting projects out there. We might also have been able to hope to finance some of the Storstrøm Bridge with backflows from Fehmarn. It now turns out that the 4.2 or 4.3 billion. kr. In other words, it must be financed by the Infrastructure Fund. So there is cause for concern, but we hope that when we reach the autumn we can all be a little happier. Hopefully savings of a few billion kroner have been found, so that we also have little money to help infrastructure projects elsewhere in Denmark. However, we are part of the conciliation circle and, of course, we continue to support a Fehmarn connection. We think it is a good and visionary project and we are aware of the challenges that are now facing the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145702	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145706	Yes, reason for concern, great uncertainty, I do not understand that the Danish People's Party is also helping to reject Enhedslisten's proposal that we use a hearing in committee to like need a bottom and behind some of the calculations that are available. The calculations that are officially available are: And I thought it was very good to get hold of it instead of just looking like a bastard and saying: Now we don't want to hear any more fucking excuses now we don't want to hear any more, now we have to deal, talk has been enough. Well, it's six months until you have to make some new contracts with the contractor. We have no idea where they end up, and they have a great influence on the calculations that have already been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145752	I am glad that Henning Hyllested himself discovered that he was moving into something that is not parliamentary language and we have to take advantage of it in here even though the other might be more cheerful. Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145803	Thank you, sir. President. I'd be happy to pass with Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested. Well, that's because the request for a hearing actually comes after the construction bill is put forward. And that is not because there has been no time to hold hearings. After all, this is a lot about what it is that you want to have clarified in a hearing, it's about traffic numbers, it's about the future earnings base. There we just think that the calculations are so valid and thorough that they still hold water. And the 9 billion. kr. In any event, a hearing would not remedy the situation, and that is why we did not think there was any need to spend more time on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145847	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145849	No, but the 9 billion. kr. After all, some form of influence, in fact, has a strong influence on the whole project and the entire calculation of the project. Surely they must. They influence the calculations, partly the official calculations, partly some of the critics and their calculations. That is what I thought it was useful to clarify. And even if Mr. Kim Christiansen says that there has been ample opportunity to hold hearings, I would say that this is now actually a means we are using. This is one of the means we have in the toolbox when we have committee work on a legislative proposal. And it's only today that we have the bill. That is why I think it is very reasonable to use the work of the committee to carry out a hearing. We have done so in other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145932	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318145933	We just didn't think it was important to hold a hearing. We have a lot of confidence in the figures that are now available. And then I would like to say that the biggest criticism that has actually been made, and I can't know if that's the errand, sir. Henning Hyllested goes ■ has actually been from among others. companies that have commercial interests in delaying this project, because then you can still keep ferry services on the spot. So little of the criticism that comes because you have commercial interests in a project, I am not really very responsive to it. So I have to rely on the fact that real, really thorough research has been done on traffic numbers and earnings in the upcoming Fehmarn project.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150017	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr President. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150025	Radical Left supports the idea of connecting Zealand and all Scandinavia with the rest of Europe with a new fixed connection from Rødby to Germany. This helps bind Europe better together and ensures the free movement of people and goods, and we can see from the analyses that the firm link will generate growth both in Denmark and in Europe. The Radical Left also agreed to this settlement on the Fehmarn fixed link, because it ensures investment in landworks in Denmark for just over 9.5 billion. kr. We are particularly pleased with the absolutely necessary upgrades of the railway that are happening from Ringsted down to Rødby. The upgrading of the Danish railway facilities will include the extension of the Vordingborg railway lines to Masnedø and Orehoved to the south of Holeby to double track. The lines from Ringsted to Masnedø and from Orehoved to the south of Holeby are electrified and expanded so that passenger trains can run up to 200 km/h. Train traffic on Zealand has long been an Achilles heel and a major problem for public transport across Zealand. With the investments that lie in this law and many other investments, the Radical Left looks forward to finally getting a modern and up-to-date railway in Greater Copenhagen and the whole of Zealand. In addition to the landworks, the construction law naturally consists of the construction of the tunnel itself between Denmark and Germany. All in all, it is a building of over 60 billion. kr. It is all financed, as we know from the Storebælt Bridge and the Øresund Bridge, namely through user charges and loan financing. There's a big but really big but... The parties behind the agreement were recently informed that the bids for the construction project were provisionally 9.5 billion. kr. More expensive. Let me be clear: if it does not get smaller, it cannot be done. The Fehmarn A/S organisation, which is responsible for the Fehmarn building, will try to negotiate prices down. There's the confident ones. With this law, Denmark can also apply for EU support. These two processes of negotiation with the contractors and the application in the EU must result in an improvement in the economy. Otherwise it will not be possible. Over the next six months, we will have to look at what prices can be negotiated down to and what the European Union will give out of support. Once the two processes have been completed, the parties must take a final position. And the Radical Left wants the economy to improve and we are confident that the Ministry of Transport and others are working to bring the uncertainties down. We can support the bill here today, as this is the prerequisite for seeking the European Union, and because we support a fixed link and, in particular, the associated railway facilities in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150335	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150341	Yes, one must admire the fact that the transport rapporteurs do not think that this is worth a major discussion. But that is clear, because when you have applauded it outside the Parliamentary Chamber, I understand that you do not want to take care of the fact that there is a single party that thinks they would like to take part in the debate. There's a slightly interesting statement from Mr. Andreas Steenberg, where Mr. Andreas Steenberg is quite in line with the Minister and says that if it becomes the exact prices we know today, it cannot be achieved. It is a statement that wants something and, as I said, Mr. Andreas Steenberg in line with the Minister. So I'm just gonna ask you, where's the limit? What is it? Well, at the moment it's just under 9 billion. kr. More expensive. Where's the line, how far are we going down? We're going to be 5 billion. kr. Down, we're gonna have to 7 billion. kr. down, or we're just gonna have to do 0.5 billion. kr. down, and then it's cheaper, and then we're going?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150436	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150438	I would like to stress that, of course, the Radical Left would always like to participate in the debate, and I could see in Berlingske that a number of so-called public affairs agencies have also been set up to create a little noise around this. I believe that everyone who reads the newspapers can see that it is being discussed quite a lot, and we would, of course, like to take part in that too. What matters for this connection to come into being is that the user payment that comes in can pay off the debt you set up and can pay the interest, that is to say avoid the so-called death of interest, and the listeners may know it from the house that you have bought, that of course you have to earn enough money to pay back the loan for which you have bought the house. That's where the line goes, of course. I cannot put my head on the block today and mention the amount, because it all depends on what we will be presented with in due course. But the limit is that you can pay the loan back, otherwise you can't do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150538	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150540	Then I would like to know whether the Radical Left has a yellow and a red field with regard to the repayment period, as we, for example, have. Heard the Left has. This might be very interesting to hear, because there is an immediate link between the economy of the project and the repayment time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150554	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150556	We are talking about what is called the death of interest rates, that is to say that the interest on the loan may exceed how much money you get in. If you have to pay so much in interest that it is not connected, then the project suffers death. I think we are talking about the fact that it is a loan period of 40 years that is realistic, and that is also what I understand the government is working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150623	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Anne Baastrup from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318150631	Thank you. This is probably one of the biggest investments Denmark has made for a long time, which is why it was an important process that we started many years ago. There have been and there are many discussions about what is up or down in the traffic jump calculations, and thus what earnings the Fehmarn Tunnel could get so that the debt can be repaid. At the same time, there has been a very intensive lobbying by Scandlines, which is rightly concerned about losing between 300 and 550 million. kr., when the Fehmarn connection becomes a reality. And that, as far as I understand, is their net earnings, and by the end of the month it is a nice amount of money. As transport rapporteur, I have chosen to have confidence in the many people who, with professional insight, have worked hard for many years to have a sound basis in place, on the one hand, the many complex calculations needed to produce an environmentally sound basis at all on the lower tunnel, so that the environmental authorities in Germany and Denmark can approve the project, on the other hand, the calculations underlying the expected development of the entire Øresund region by making this eastern direct link with Germany. SF has chosen to believe these calculations. Historically, we have always been somewhat sceptical about this type of future calculations both at the Storebælt Bridge and at the Sound, but in the unbearably clear light of hindsight we must say that it was perhaps some okay. decisions that were taken at the time. It is a lot of money that is involved with the Fehmarn connection, but what we have to remember is that the funding also covers an upgrade of the railway system, and this means that Denmark is making an intensive investment in the south-east of Denmark for the first time, more specifically Lolland-Falster, and this in itself is huge. At the same time, it has succeeded in putting clear SF images on the project. We get less noise from the train connection, we have succeeded in including demands for the use of the most climate-proof materials on the tunnel, and last but not least, SF's then Transport Minister, Pia Olsen Dyhr, succeeded in introducing a general ambitious approach to the social responsibility of the project and in particular strong demands for social clauses in the construction. They must help to secure 500 apprentices along the way in the construction work. Today the first apprentices are in the process, and Femern A/S has developed the project together with 3F, so that you are also working to get cash benefit recipients started on the project. This is good for employment on Lolland-Falster. In the coming year, there will be many different types of jobs on Lolland-Falster, which will generate a very special development. Once the work has been completed, a new situation will have been created for these areas, which I expect the local politicians involved, businesses and others. must help to focus on. Think that in future you can stay at Lolland and get the same journey time by train from Holeby as if you were living in Helsingør. It must be said to be an even very offensive policy for the outermost regions and some of the poorest municipalities in Denmark. Of course, in SF we have continuously discussed the various challenges that this huge project presents to Denmark. Do we trust the people of Femern A/S and Sund & Bælt? Are the foreign experts involved neutral? The amount of arguments against this project is and has been large. Last time we have run into the very unsatisfactory bids made by the contractors involved. That is why I am also satisfied with the fundamental decision that we took in the conciliation circle, namely that we are implementing this legislative proposal, which is, of course, an environmental approval, because we believe that the many interests that lie behind the original resolution remain valid. We need to link the eastern part of Denmark with Germany, and at the same time we have given Femern Bælt's people time to pressure the contractors involved to deal with reality, because it is not until September that the real decision can be taken. The contractors maintain the very high bids and thus do not recognise that, for example, they do not. the longer time they may have to complete the project must give a lower price, then they lose the chance to build an innovatively innovative lowering tunnel, and what is worse, the development of Lolland-Falster will not get started, and eastern Denmark will lose the opportunity to create a direct corridor to Germany, which at the same time loses a cheap path to getting goods back and forth to and forth from Scandinavia both on the road and on the track. It's a shame, but that's the reality. SF does not support a project which is economically not considered to be both economically and environmentally sustainable. I doubt it will go so wrong, but there must be no uncertainty. We in the SF want the price down, it is important, and at the same time it has to be said that the European Union has a duty to provide the essential support. One cannot start a Member State with this type of large investment with the significant amount we have received for the feasibility studies and then run from these built-in promises.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151118	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151123	Of course, I also welcome the fact that the Fehmarn project will be included in the agreement we made with the government at the time, as SF was also part of the government, on work clauses and social clauses. I really hope that it will bear fruit. What we now lack in the exchange I have at least had with the Ministry of Transport is the follow-up control function. It is always about that, and it is absolutely crucial, so we must get it in place. I would like to ask Mrs Anne Baastrup something. There were many important things for SF, and it was important for SF at the time, when it was agreed to the connection, that it also ensured the extension of the railway and that it would also benefit the commuters from South Zealand and Lolland-Falster. How does Mrs. Anne Baastrup think she's doing? Now, according to the latest note from the Ministry of Transport, the extension of the railway from Ringsted to Holeby has been postponed for the time being, of course, with reference to the fact that the German railway installations will not be up for very many years. But is this necessarily an obstacle to the extension of the Ringsted-Holeby railway?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151227	Mrs. Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151228	Now we have an agreement that says that everything is connected and that is why we cannot find the money here and now to break up and take out parts of the landworks. But at least I agree with Mr. Henning Hyllested in that it would be smart if it were that we could have the certainty that the trains were going to drive before the roads started. But the next thing is that I personally think it is positive that Germany is prepared to upgrade their railway. I was in Hamburg here a while ago by train, and I would say that it needs it, and if we are to have fast trains through the north of Germany, something really needs to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151307	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151309	Well, why not just expand the railroad? I don't quite understand. Why view it as a very, very solid component, so we have to wait? In any case, it will benefit those whom the SF used to advocate, the commuters on South Zealand and on Lolland-Falster, and you can just start on that. I am convinced that the SF, together with the other conciliation parties, is absolutely convinced that this connection will come about and that the fact that it waits until September is really an illusion number. It's gonna turn into something, so why don't you just start with it? Because then you can just view it as an improvement in train traffic on Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151344	Mrs. Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151345	So in my optics, it is important that we know what the overall economy will be before we start. Now it is March, and it will not be long before September, and the final decision will then have to be taken. This is an environmental approval, and it authorizes the Minister to initiate the project itself in the conciliation circle. I think it is somewhat absurd that Mr. Henning Hyllested is so upset that we will spend a few more months to get prices down. I think it was rather clever to work seriously on this and to work seriously for the EU to bring its money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151421	It was Mrs Anne Baastrup who finished here. And then, sir... Henning Hyllested, and now it is as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318151430	Firstly, it is gratifying that the first reading of the legislative proposals was postponed. I'd like to sign for that. It was the Enhedslisten's proposal, and I also think that everything else would have been indecent; to carry out the discussion here without having had the opportunity to read through the many consultation answers would have been almost making fun of the many who, after all, have sat down and made the trouble of making a hearing answer. On the legislative proposals, of course, we think it is quite irresponsible to rush through a legislative proposal such as this, which includes such a large infrastructure project as it is, into many, many billion dollars, and where the uncertainty, as I think I have explained, is absolutely stated. The project has thus become 9 billion. kr. More expensive. Today's price is 64 billion. kr., and then I'm gonna ignore the number-spin you've made around the reserves. The cost of the coastal system has increased from 40.5 billion. kr. to 49.4 billion. kr., and that is an increase of 22 per cent, and that is something that is going to change, and which has indeed occurred after the consultation phase. These are changes which should make the conciliation parties applaud the horse and postpone the adoption of the construction law until the exact price of the project is known. And it must also be Enhedslisten's call, and it has been for a long time that the process is put on standby until the uncertainties are clarified, because there are a great many of them, and I will try to address some of them. We do not know the outcome of the negotiations with the contractors until September, so we do not know the price. In other words, the Folketing decides on one of the largest infrastructure installations in history in the blind. The Minister of Transport has said that it is not realistic to implement this project with such high prices, and that means that even the Minister of Transport is questioning the realisation of the project. For where is the limit on when it is realistic to implement the project? Is it possible to find out? I don't think you can. I have already asked the radical rapporteur whether it is 62 billion. kr., 60 billion. kr., or how much is the price going down to? Or are you really so determined to implement the Fehmarn project that it doesn't matter what price you come up with in September, as long as it's a little bit lower? This suspicion can be eliminated by informing the pain limit of the price by September. And will the Minister also guarantee that it will not be on pay and working conditions to be saved when the price is to be reduced? So, in order not to be a lie, the price of the German landworks has also made a price jump that will do something, namely 10 billion. kr. kr. to 16.4 billion. kr., which is an increase of 166 percent, waw! At the same time, they are very late, three to six years, depending on who you ask. Against this background, the German National Audit Office calls on the German Minister of Transport to renegotiate the Treaty, and that is an opportunity in the Treaty if the conditions, especially the economic ones, change. And surely they have done so. So perhaps we are faced with a renegotiation with a modified project or with a change in time horizon. The conciliation parties seem to live with this uncertainty too. Uncertainty about the price and the German landworks add to other uncertainties. There's not much about this project that's safe at all. There are the traffic forecasts, which, to put it mildly, look strange, and which are therefore controversial and heatedly debated. The extent of future car traffic depends to a large extent on whether or how much Scandlines will continue to sail and on what ferry tariffs will look like after the monopoly break. It is to be expected that the ferry charges will fall, although the prices announced by the Fehmarn project in connection with the traffic forecasts will be DKK 968. in the case of a tunnel service, there will be no serious competition. One third of the drivers on the Rødby-Puttgarden crossing are today to the border trade, and this is for a cheap ticket price of 299 DKK, but they are fully included in the tunnel forecasts, although it is at full price of 968 DKK. That is not very realistic, to put it bluntly. Then there are almost 2,000 cars designed to move from Storebælt to Fehmarn daily. That's about. 700,000 a year, but there is no evidence of such large volumes of traffic to and from Germany over Storebælt. And then it is also depending on what the price is for crossing Storebælt, and it has suddenly become an election campaign theme where the parties are almost in line to lower the price. Then there is the uncertainty about the time of German environmental approval. There have been 3 000 consultation responses to be considered and to be taken into account. Then it is a serious matter that the German railway installations are seriously delayed, as I mentioned between 3 and 6 years, in relation to the completion of the road system. This means that the freight trains currently operating between Sweden and Germany via Denmark will continue to run via Funen and South Jutland. This means continued tribulation on the tracks on West Funen, on Storebælt and on Zealand. What does this have to do with DSB's passenger trains, both regional and national? The extension of Ringsted-Holeby is postponed, including the electrification of the track, as far as I understand from the note from the Minister of Transport. But why not just continue the extension to Nykøbing Falster in the first place and consider it an upgrade to the Danish railroad in order to accommodate the many commuters on this line with power operation and speed upgrade? Then there is EU support, which has also come into play with the Juncker Plan for investment in, among others. infrastructure. Uncertainty is there, as it can be seen, enough, but the conciliation parties continue with contempt for death and stubborn stubbornness their staggering project: Don't look to the right, don't look to the left, forward! Even a committee hearing will not allow room, despite the fact that hearings can normally be used in the examination of a legislative proposal and give time to hear both some of the many critics of the project and those who have been responsible for calculating the economy in the traffic forecasts. But no, Enhedslisten's proposal to use one of the tools in the democratic toolbox is firmly rejected. Funny thing about this bastant agreement, because at first the parties were divided. Until the mid-00s, the Radicals, the SF, the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten were opposed to the project. The same was actually part of the Social Democratic Party. They must have had summer shells in the Ministry of Transport, so Bjarne Laustsen said back in 2007 to Jyllands-Posten. And Martin Lidegaard, who was the transport rapporteur for the Radicals, said that both parties would like to have an incentive to develop the infrastructure necessary for the bridge to be a success as it was then, and that he could fear it would not be present when the Danish state alone lifted the risk. And he was right when you look at the rather subdued attitude they have in Germany towards the project and where the Danes have to finance far, by far most and the tunnel connection itself. But the parties capitulated one by one. When the State Treaty was signed in 2008, the government received full support from the Social Democratic Party, and when the Design Act was adopted in 2009, both the Danish People's Party and the Radicals had joined with what was then to become an eternally repeated mantra, and which does not require any further explanation. It is more fun to be on the field than to sit on the bench, as Kim Christiansen said in 2008. I'd say it depends on what game is played. On that occasion, the enthusiasm of the present Transport Minister over the newly converted almost biblical heights reached, and I quote: Every time some parties have been able to see the light and see the idea of it, the conciliation circle has opened up and said: Well welcome to the club, welcome among the parties who can see the great visions of a Fehmarn connection. Hallelujah, let the little children come to me! That's what the Minister of Transport said in 2009. That last one wasn't part of the quote, I'll say. It also managed to get SF to board the project, which has not happened before when it comes to environmentally harmful projects of this size. For its involvement, SF required that the forthcoming EIA study not only investigate environmental impacts but also climate impacts. Whether or not the party believes that an increase of the dikes to 4-5 m meets the requirement must be explained by the then Transport Rapporteur and the present Premier of the party. It was also important for the SF that a "yes" to a fixed link and thus the extension of the railway would also benefit the commuters from South Zealand and Lolland-Falster, as was stated in a press release in 2008. But it is perhaps difficult to imagine that the extension of the railway from Ringsted to Holeby should not benefit the South Zealand commuters and Lollanders and falsifications. So I guess you can't say it's a big fingerprint. And I wonder if it would be possible to improve the conditions for trains travelling on South Zealand and Lolland-Falster without pouring 65 billion at the same time. kr. in the Baltic Sea? For the time being, therefore, the extension of the railway has been postponed over Sjælland and Lolland-Falster. In the Enhedslisten, we are pleased that over all the years we have stayed out of this scandalously ill-planned and completely superfluous project. And with the latest developments and further uncertainty, we are particularly happy not to have lot and part of the project. It is a transit link between Sweden and the continent decided in connection with the Øresund link on a demand from the Swedes. These are enormous environmental impacts of the Belt and of nature at the rural sites, not least on the German side on the island of Fehmarn. This is a road link which will help to create more car traffic and contribute to the development of what I call the hello society, where everything cannot go fast enough while forgetting to get the soul. Traveling is living, you say, but travelling faster and faster is first and foremost good for the economy and for the supply of labour; it is good for business, it is good for competitiveness, it creates growth, it creates jobs, it is all the good buzzwords. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, And while consulting firms, traffic scientists and economists are jubilant with the socio-economic calculations and traffic models above the heads, it was the boards with the ten commandments they carried. The human being lost it. It became a unit in the supply of work. So if anyone is in doubt, Enhedslisten will vote against the bill and also against Bill L 142 as a consequence of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152407	This certainly resulted in a single comment or question. Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152413	Thank you. What I actually just stumbled over was that Henning Hyllested hascelerated a lot that everything has to go fast and that we have to hurry like this. I know that Henning Hyllested is part of the agreement on the Togfonden DK, which is precisely about getting back and forth between the Danish cities as quickly as possible, and I know that Henning Hyllested has also just concluded an agreement on DSB, a 10-year agreement, where it is also all about DSB having to drive stronger in the future. So maybe that doesn't apply when it's on the road?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152442	No. It's just that if it can just take place on trains, where you can bring the soul, where you can sit down, where you can read, you can relax, you can sleep, then you can live while you are travelling; you can't do that in a car. There you sit tense, you hold on straight and keep an eye on the surrounding traffic. So it is absolutely right that it doesn't matter that it goes fast, as long as it goes on trains.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152500	Sir. Kim Christiansen? No. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152504	I understand, sir. Henning Hyllested has a great passion for the train, and it is not surprising, I must say, and that is also all right, but when Mr. Henning Hylllested is here... Henning Hyllested now thinks it is so important, I just want to ask: What does Enhedslisten have to offer to the many, many Danes, the hundreds of thousands who live far away from a railway and who have to use their car in everyday life? Aren't they gonna have some good roads to drive? Or does it really matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152527-2	No, 'cause I don't really disagree with them, 'cause I want them to have good roads too. However, it is a question for us of developing public transport, including in the outlying areas. It has been greatly minimized, regions and municipalities have really closed down a great many bus routes, and this is, of course, linked to the developments in our society. Nevertheless, I believe that it should be expanded, and indeed we do so with the Train Fund DK. We're also upgrading the regional lanes around here. Large parts of Arriva's lines are facing upgrades in connection with the Togfonden DK. So we are also trying to offer the collective means of travel, which I prefer at least to piggy and environmentally unsustainable traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152618	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152620	Apparently, it's passed over, sir. Henning Hyllested's attention that the cars don't mess much anymore. In fact, there is a really positive development, where they run very far on the liter, and in 15-20 years' time most of them do not even run on petrol and diesel anymore. So I don't really understand the resistance to cars at all, because the Danes need them. However, to return to the Fehmarn bill, I am rather surprised that the Enhedslisten does not, instead of standing on the sidelines and pointing fingers, go in and mark it, because it is precisely a huge advantage that we have an environmentally friendly railway and a high-class rail link. So I am very incomprehensible that Enhedslisten will not help promote it and, for example, go in and influence that Ringsted will be an important hub where trains stop. I understand that Enhedslisten is part of a train fund agreement, and there is no guarantee that trains will stop in Ringsted. Wasn't it a good idea to go in and focus on Ringsted being a place where you could also get on the train, including a lot of the trains going down over Fehmarn?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152720	Yes, indeed, and so are we. We have a clear expectation that when the hour model is rolled out in due course, you will stop in Ringsted. In fact, we have no doubt about that, and we also had some comments in the agreement on the Train Fund DK on that. I'd like to say something about the cars. It is true that cars have become more environmentally friendly, but to go as far as calling a car an environmentally friendly means of transport, I will not go now. Cars make a mess, and they cause tribulation, and they continue to do so, whether they are becoming more and more environmentally friendly. But yes, we would like to take action. If we are not in relation to Fehmarn, it is because we believe that the Fehmarn connection is extremely environmentally harmful, both for the belt, but also for the landworks on both sides, not least on the German side, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and we are not interested in participating in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152805	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318152813	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance believes that major infrastructure projects can be a crucial prerequisite for long-term growth and development. We know that economic growth is linked to the cities, and the cities of the Fehmarnbelt region are, of course, struggling with other strong regions in Europe. If Copenhagen and Copenhagen Airport are to continue to play the role of the gateway to the Nordic Region and be a major player in global competition, then this investment in a fixed link over Fehmarnbelt is very central. The North German area and the Øresund region total 8-10 million inhabitants. A car ride from Copenhagen to Hamburg is cut from 41⁄2 hours to 3 hours, and the train ride is almost halved from 4 hours and 40 minutes to 2 hours and 40 minutes. In addition, no less than 65 freight trains per day are assumed, so we are talking about a significant volume and significant quantities and quite different time savings from those we are talking about, for example. is included in the Togfonden DK's hourly model at 28.5 billion. kr., where the minutes are spoken of. When such transport times can be realized, dynamic effects will arise, that is, everything that will happen around the connection when the market and society change and adapt to the new improved conditions. The potential of cities on the international stage will undoubtedly be lifted and such an opportunity must not be missed. The Baltic Sea links together with the Great Belt Bridge will link the whole of Scandinavia to the Central European economy. The legislative proposal we are discussing here has an enormous scope. We are therefore talking about the world's largest sinking tunnel, with a considerable economy, which, of course, is based on a number of essential conditions. We do not yet know some of the most important of them, and this applies both to the subsidy from the European Union and to the final contract sum, which is under negotiation. However, the Liberal Alliance considers the project to be reasonably robust on its basis. There is a socio-economic return of 5%, on the basis of a real interest rate of 3%. And I said real interest rates, which must be said to be even very cautious from today's financial markets. During the negotiations, we have been informed that only the interest rate drops from 3%. 2. However, the rate of return may be reduced by as much as 10 years, i.e. from 39 years to 29 years. This means for us to see that, although the precise traffic forecasts can be discussed, as some of the rapporteurs have already mentioned, it will be justifiable to adopt a construction law now. The final contracts will only be signed once there is clarity about the main chunks of the last uncertainty, presumably in the autumn. There will always be uncertainty when you take the crystal ball and have to look so far ahead of predicting the behaviour of citizens or road users. So, of course, there are also elements of faith attached to such a great decision. However, the visions are also based on the desire for a certain condition in the future. There is something to be hoped for and something to be believed, and we are certainly of the opinion that this project will benefit society, businesses and the ordinary citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153208	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth, Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153219	Hello, sir. President. Or thank you, sir. President, it is called. That fg. President (Bent Bøgsted) Enjoy! ) The Conservative People's Party supports the bill for a fixed link across the Fehmarn Belt, i.e. from Rødby to Germany, an 18 km long sinking tunnel built from coast to coast. It will be a connection that will be used by all Scandinavia, Germany and, of course, Danes as well. Up to 10 million people are directly connected to this area. In addition, we have seen massive support and support from both German business and Swedish and Norwegian. The entire Nordic business community supports this project. For the sake of order, we also have other bridge projects: Storebælt and Øresund, and there is no financial slippage to this project from there. These are independent projects which, in terms of income and economic terms, have no confusion with the Fehmarn project. It is also important to say in this context that Germany supports the contractual commitments they have entered into. There have been reports that the Germans have regretted and that you are not quite as massive in your support as you have been in the past, but it is, of course, refuted. We have most recently had the Minister in Germany, where the minister responsible fully supported the project and announced loudly and crystal-clearly that we are fulfilling every obligation to which we have made a contractual commitment, but that there are, of course, some delays in upgrading the rail project from a track to a double track, and there are some authorities that are dragging out. So far, we have heard that it is three years, but we also hear that it is the process that is that because you have been a little late with it, it takes a little longer, but there is a clear expectation from the German side that it will be adopted. It is very good that it will be double-track instead of a track. We know down in my part of the country, South and South Jutland what happens when a single track gets an accident. Then all transport must be driven around Esbjerg with huge delays, both for citizens travelling to and from that part of the country, but also, of course, for business that is also affected. So it's important that there are two leads, and that prize is so luckily added. We are now ready to press the button, but it is a matter of uncertainty that we must clear up before we start building. One is that the price has become too high. We have just had a bidding round where the price was 91⁄2 billion too high compared to the budgeted. This is totally unacceptable for the Conservative People's Party. Now this delay means that some money can be made in a new bidding round. Some construction can be postponed, and there we have the expectation that we will be able to get new bids approaching the budget we have been working on. Then we will also have clarity as to what the European Union's financial contribution will be. The last part of this is that we need the German authorities to approve the project there so that everything is applauded and clear and we have a full picture of the economy, and then we expect that we can press the start button so that we can build this fixed link, which gives a huge social value: employment, growth, easier accessibility for drivers. We have to remember that you save 11⁄2 hour of driving compared to today, when you have to drive over the Storebælt Bridge and down through Jutland to Hamburg and Berlin, 11⁄2 hour of faster traffic coming along this road, and there will be less risk of queues. So on all the stretches, this is a visionary, ambitious, realistic project that we support when these things are sorted out and the price is right, and that is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153613	A brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153615	Sir. In his rapporteur's speech, Mike Legarth referred to the various bridge links. Is Mr. Mike Legarth is aware that to a large extent the Fehmarn connection can be regarded as a transit link, which, in fact, has its main justification in relation to the large Swedish industry, which needs fast freight transport to and from the continent, and that in this respect it is actually worth questioning whether there is a great need for a link from Denmark to Germany? Is it not primarily as a transit link that Fehmarn has its justification, from a Swedish point of view? That is also why, in connection with the Øresund link, the Swedes demanded that it be seen in continuation of each other. And did Mr. Mike Legarth has thought that the growth that is supposed to occur in connection with the Fehmarn connection is then taken away from somewhere else, and that could, for example, be the case. be from Funen and South Jutland, which are now cut off from a lot of traffic and growth opportunities if I am to believe what other rapporteurs have said today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153729	I think that, overall, it is important to say first of all that, fortunately, this is not a project for taxpayers to pay. This is going to be a user-paid project, so they're the ones running over the connection, the ones using the tunnel that are paying for this bridge. The tax payers won't pay for it. That's the first thing. The next is that there is already too much congestion, and we in the blue bloc would like to do something more about road and infrastructure projects where Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten in particular, would like to invest more in the railroad; this is a well-known issue. However, we believe that it is appropriate to establish a Fehmarn connection, otherwise, of course, we did not support it. We believe that this is of great benefit to the Nordic economy, to the German economy, to ordinary citizens in Germany and in Scandinavia and to Danes. So it is an advantage on all parameters that we get a Fehmarn Belt connection, both in terms of professional and general availability for ordinary citizens, and at the same time it relieves the road network that is already overloaded.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153828	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153829	But it is not much to the benefit of the business community on Funen and in South Jutland, one can almost afford to say quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153841	I do not think so. If we had thought that it was an obstacle, that it was to the detriment of parts of our country, we would not have accepted the project. No. Overall, we believe that this can give synergy effects, which are also beneficial to South and South Jutland and especially Funen, but in fact all districts, all regions, all parts of Denmark together will have a positive effect on the fact that we have a fixed Fehmarn Belt connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153911	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318153931	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive, constructive and great attention that has been paid to the draft law in Parliament here today. There is no doubt to me that today is a day that is important for the project, and when we know the recent Danish history of the major projects, it is an important day for Denmark. The first political considerations in this country and discussions with Germany on a fixed link over the Fehmarnbelt started early in the 1990s. In 2008, the Transport Ministers from Germany and Denmark could then sign the State Treaty on the establishment and operation of a fixed link over the Fehmarn Belt and now we stand here. Just as the fixed links over Storebælt and over Øresund have been milestones in the development of the Danish infrastructure and are now helping to bind the parts of the country together and to bind Denmark and Sweden together, the fixed link over Femern Bælt will create better links with our main trading partner, namely Germany, and the link will help to bind Denmark and Europe better together and, of course, also close a gap in the infrastructure between Scandinavia and the continent. When the connection is finished, a car will be able to drive through it approx. 18 km long tunnel of approx. Ten minutes. A train will make the same trip of approx. Seven minutes. And today, most of us know that... take a trip from Rødby to Puttgarden 45 minutes in sailing time plus the time it takes to get on board and off board the ferry. The journey by train from Copenhagen to Hamburg takes 41⁄2 hours. With the new tunnel and also the upgrading of the landworks, the rail upgrade, it will take a good 21⁄2 hours from 41⁄2 hours to 21⁄2 hours. That is one of the reasons why we are discussing one of Europe's largest rail projects today. For freight trains, the link leads to a 160 km shorter route between Copenhagen and Hamburg, and this means that the rail's competitiveness in the freight sector is now finally improving and even quite significantly. The link therefore entails both a marked shortening of travel time and a much greater flexibility in the choice of mode of travel and time of travel. In addition, the Fehmarn Belt link frees the capacity for domestic regional traffic between Sjælland, Funen and Jutland. This is an aspect which is a little overlooked, I think, in the political debate, but it is clear that cars and trucks and trains from Zealand to Germany no longer have to fill up motorways and railways over Funen, and thus the link is an important element in the overall strengthening of infrastructure in both East and West Denmark. Therefore, we can conclude that Denmark as a whole will also benefit from the connection in this way. The construction bill we are discussing today aims to empower the state-owned companies, Femern A/S and A/S Femern Landanlæg, to build and operate the fixed link over Femern Bælt and related landworks in Denmark. And what exactly is this project that we are authorizing companies to carry out under the Construction Act? First of all, it's this approximately. 18 km long sinking tunnel. It contains a four-track highway with emergency tracks in both directions and a two-track electrified rail connection. Facilities must also be set up for operation and maintenance and for a toll facility located on the Danish side of the tunnel. New rural areas will also be established off the coasts of Lolland and Fehmarn for the purpose of establishing the link. In addition, the project also includes upgrading the railways. In order to ensure sufficient capacity on the railway there will be an extension of the railway lines from Vordingborg to Masnedø and from Orehoved to south of Holeby to a double track. At the same time, the lines are electrified and expanded from Ringsted to Masnedø and from Orehoved to the south of Holeby, and a fixed, new double-track bridge is established over Masnedsund east of the existing bridge and a single-track folding bridge over Guldborgsund south of the existing King Frederik IX's Bridge. A new Storstrøm bridge is not covered by this bill, but it will have its very own construction law, which I expect to be able to make proposals in a few weeks' time here in the Folketing. I would just like to make a few comments on the contracts to be concluded for the establishment of the fixed link. In December 2014, Femern A/S received offers for the construction of the fixed link from a number of contractors. These offers were higher than previously expected and therefore negotiations have been opened with the contractors with a view to negotiating the price down. We know the outcome of these negotiations in the early autumn of this year. And around the project's economy, as several others have pointed out, I would also like to say that both Denmark and Germany have together sent a joint application for EU funding for the project to the European Commission, and I expect that we can receive an indication from the Commission about a decision during the summer of 2015. Once we have received the European Commission's decision on EU aid and the companies have completed the new round of negotiations with the contractors, a review of the overall economy of the project will be carried out in autumn 2015 which will be submitted to the conciliation circle behind the project. At the same time, the German authority's approval will be reviewed, which is not yet available, but which is, of course, also a prerequisite for the implementation of the project. In this context, I would like to stress that the approval of the conciliation board is, of course, a prerequisite for the conclusion of the large contracts and the implementation of the project. This is also quite clear from the draft law. I would also like to mention that the current timetable for the project means that the project must be completed by 2021. As you know, and as several rapporteurs have also mentioned today, my German colleague has announced that the German railway installations will only be completed in 2024 and therefore it is important for me to mention that we in Denmark must also review the timetable for the Danish railway system, and we will do so in the near future. Finally, I should like to mention that in a separate legislative proposal, L 142, it is proposed to repeal the special tax rules for Sund and Bælt Holding A/S, the A/S Storebæltsforbindelsen and the A/S Øresundsforbindelsen, which are incorporated into the Act on Sund and Bælt Holding A/S. It is also proposed to repeal the special tax rules for Femern A/S and A/S Femern Landanlæg, which have been introduced into the Design Act. The purpose of these amendments is to tax Sund and Bælt Holding A/S without exception in accordance with the rules applicable to other public limited companies. Finally, I would like to stress and reiterate that I very much appreciate the very broad support for the project, and if you compare it with the two other major projects we have in Denmark, Storebælt and Øresund, there is much, much wider support in this Parliament for the Fehmarn project, and I think that is a great result of a very, very thorough work, and this has been done through all the ministers who have been before me and who have worked on this matter too. It's a job I'm proud to be able to contribute to. The Fehmarn Belt connection is a piece of Danish and European core infrastructure that will have a wide range of positive effects. This applies both locally at Lolland, for Denmark, for the Fehmarn Belt corridor and for the rest of Europe, and therefore it is a major project. It is an historic project that we as a small country can be proud to be involved in. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal and, of course, I am prepared to answer questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318154834	Thank you. And there is certainly a question. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318154838	I have to ask myself, because when the Minister is out saying that it is not realistic to carry out this project with such high prices, I can count on an amount of 48.9 billion on the ordinary housekeeping bill. kr. At least it is too high because the original price was 40.5 billion. kr. And then I ask: where should the price be for the Minister before he thinks that the project is not realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318154916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318154918	In comparison with Storebælt and Øresund, we did not have the prices until a rapporteur spoke about it after the legislative proposals were tabled. Here we have the prices before the bill is dealt with. Approx. 80% of the total construction contract we have the prices of now and here. And with those prices we have said quite openly on the part of the conciliation circle and on the part of the Ministry that prices are too high in relation to the buffer that is then left. The 39-year repayment period has also been robust and reasonable, but the remaining buffer sum for the last 20-25 percent. Of the prices that come, too small. That is why we are now launching the negotiations. And now that we in the conciliation circle and myself, as Minister, have asked Femern A/S to have a company that I am the owner of to negotiate, I would do them an incredibly bad service if I announced in advance that this was what they had to do, because then they would play with open cards, so to speak, in relation to the contractors they are negotiating with. And it's not gonna happen that I do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318155027	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318155029	Well, that might be quite reasonable, I'd say, if I may give you a hint. It might be wise to go out and say: we will only accept 44 billion. kr. Then I'm gonna have to promise that those contractors would probably get right, and then the project would probably be 44 billion. kr. for the tunnel part. So it's just such a trick to the minister and to the Fehmarn A/S instead of the secrecy. I am aware that I am not getting an answer, so I would just like to ask something else: does the Minister really believe that the three years of delay in the German railway installations, which the Germans have reported now, are really holding up, in the end, given whether I can say how far one is behind with the whole authority's approval, etc. etc.? In fact, it has now been planned to build a completely new line with double track and electrification. Does the Minister really believe that it can be held within three years, despite what the German Minister for Transport says?
ParlaMint-DK_20150318155121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318155122	How glad I am that Enhedslisten has a rapporteur who is always fair but also mentioned here: completely new track in Germany, double track, electrified. I heard earlier the enthusiasm about the railway, which is well known at Enhedslisten, and that is exactly what this project contains. After all, it contains a completely new double-track electrified railway not only in Denmark, also in Germany. Do you think they'd have built that track if we didn't have a Fehmarn project? Honestly, I doubt that, and I believe that too, sir. Henning Hyllested does. This is just one of the good arguments that the Fehmarn project is a good idea. Is it possible to do this on schedule? But when the Germans choose to invest approx. 2 billion The euro in the context is because we have an intergovernmental treaty, but also because they choose to do more than they are actually obliged to do because they can see the potentials in this context. And at the meetings I have been to in Berlin with the German Minister for Transport and with Deutsche Bahn, the concrete investment plans they have presented. And that means that German scepticism has probably been there historically, but that is not where this project currently faces some challenges. It is on prices, and it is on the German environmental approval, which is purely official work and not something that we can and should not interfere in politically. Finally, I would like to say that it is not the case that the contractors have made too high prices and that they are just counting on winning. I have no reason to say that at all. When we expect that it will be possible to negotiate the price down, it is precisely because, with the German delay, we have some extra time to take action. And it is clear that if you have extra time, you can also get the price down, because then you have more freedom as a contractor to deliver the product to be delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318155312	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150318155325	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 19 March 2015, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
