ParlaMint-DK_20150115100009	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Food (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 112 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Fertilizers in Agriculture and on Plant Covers. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150115100038	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 10 by Jens Joel (S), Lars Christian Lilleholt (V), Lone Loklindt (RV), Steen Gade (SF), Per Clausen (EL) and Mike Legarth (KF), and we hope to vote. There can be. The vote will end. In favour of 80 (V, S, RV, SF, EL and KF), against 4 (LA), abstention 13 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 10 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 11 by Mikkel Dencker (DF) and Villum Christensen (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115100140	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There's two of them. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 13 of Trine Bramsen (S), Jep Mikkelsen (RV), Steen Gade (SF) and Pernille Skipper (EL), and voting is possible. It's gonna take a while, I see. The vote is closed. In favour of 53 votes (S, RV, SF and EL), against 6 votes (KF and 1 V (by mistake)), abstentions 42 (V, DF and LA). Proposal for adoption No V 13 has been adopted. V 12 by Martin Henriksen (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question. ]
ParlaMint-DK_20150115100240	The debate is open, and the first speaker is Mr. Hans Andersen for the Left. Here you go. Then we'll have some peace if you want to talk in here, you have to go outside. May I have some rest in the Chamber, please?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115100327	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to ensure better conditions for volunteers on transfer income. It is about people on unemployment benefits, early retirement and flexitime benefits, and it is about extending the applicable law today, that you can take part in voluntary work for up to 4 hours a week, so that you can take part in voluntary work for up to 15 hours a week without deduction of the benefit. The 15 hours of voluntary work are proposed as an average over a payout period similar to the current rules. Voluntary work in excess of 15 hours leads to a reduction in the benefit, as in the applicable law. In connection with this bill, it is proposed that it should be implemented during a trial period and that we should work to apply the current definition of voluntary unpaid work, i.e.: work carried out by volunteers for associations, voluntary organisations, etc., which may be offered as ordinary work but which does not concern primary operations and maintenance. As I said, it is proposed that the scheme should have a trial period of 2 years running from 23 March of this year to 20 March 2017, so that the period follows the payment periods for daily allowances. The draft law is not considered to have an economic impact on the public sector, except for the costs arising from the fact that we will carry out an evaluation of this scheme. The Left supports this bill and thus the initiative to improve the conditions of the many volunteers who are currently on a transfer income and who want to do a voluntary job. We recognise and welcome the efforts of volunteers in society. That is why it is essential to simplify the rules in the area of unemployment benefit and early retirement so that we do not stop this group of people from being part of voluntary association and from making an effort that is appreciated in many places. However, it is important for us to be aware that voluntary unpaid work does not help to remove work from people on normal pay and working conditions and does not help to reduce or reduce the amount of work offered under normal conditions. We must continue to ensure that the unemployed are available for the labour market and, above all, take on the work that comes through applications, etc. The Left wants more people to join the community, whether it's about the workplace, the football club or the older club. So the Left welcomes this bill and so we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115100712	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then we go to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jacob Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115100726	In October, the government presented the playout • Easier to be volunteering. It consists of ten initiatives designed to make it easier to be voluntary in Denmark. We did so because there is no doubt that volunteers are making a great and significant effort for Denmark. More than 40%. of the Danes are today volunteers, and it is a very special resource that makes the wheels turn around in Danish society. It's an effort of fire souls that can't be made up of money. For many, voluntary action is a perfectly natural thing, and we must recognise and support it, because it is a pity if a good-hearted commitment is lost in cumbersome rules and unnecessary bureaucracy. That's why the government has presented the play-out • Easier to be a volunteer, because we want to make it easier to make voluntary efforts for the community. The bill we are discussing today is the first coinage of the proposal. With L 101, we propose to change the rules on how much voluntary work you can do when you receive unemployment benefit, early retirement or flexitime. Today, the rules are that you have to do a maximum of four hours of work a week, but with the bill we want to raise it to 15 hours a week. We want to raise the threshold because there must be a continued natural opportunity to contribute voluntary, unpaid efforts, even if you are unemployed or on pre-retirement or flexitime. Therefore, there should be no uncertainty as to when you will be drawn into your performance. Having said that, I would first of all like to make it quite clear that it is not the intention of the draft law that voluntary work should replace paid work or extend unemployment periods in no way. There are some very clear dividing lines between what applies as voluntary work and what does not, and those dividing lines we have in the law today, and they remain unchanged with the bill. This is crucial and helps to ensure that the intention of L 101 ultimately matches the result, namely that as many as possible will be able to continue to make voluntary efforts. Today in Denmark we have a great culture of helping each other and making a difference through volunteering, and with L 101 we strengthen that culture and make it clear to people on daily allowances, early retirement and flexible work that they can no doubt continue to take on voluntary work. It not only strengthens society, but it also makes sense and something back to the individual who makes the effort, when at the same time we state that volunteering must never replace paid work or extend the benefit period. That is why the Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101012	Thank you very much. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101016	Thank you to the rapporteur for one of the governing parties. I would like to hear what the Socialists think about the comments made by the LO's on the proposal. They are somewhat critical and in fact believe that there is a great risk that this proposal may crowd out work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101041	We have certainly listened to what they said, I believe, and I also think that I pointed out in my speech that there are precisely no changes in relation to when it is voluntary and when it is paid work. Those rules must be respected, and it is the LO's own A-boxes and all other A-boxes that assess this in the same context. That's why I don't think there's anything to fear in this. But what I pointed out in the speech is that there is voluntary work, and the rules for when it is voluntary work continue as they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101111	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101112	Thank you. Now there are two kinds of voluntary work in these rules: there are activities and I agree that there are no problems in them, because it is association work that would never be paid, and then there is what is called unpaid work. There is, after all, in the guide a series of ideas about what it might be. When you go from 4 hours to 15 hours, does the rapporteur not think that there is an increased risk of displacement, so that we need to tighten up the guidelines?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101144	No, I think that there are clear lines in this area and that we can continue with the rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101150	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101200	Thank you, President. This proposal seems to me to be quite reasonable, and we in the Danish People's Party do not object to the possibility of helping for more than four hours a week as a volunteer; there is no problem with that. Where the problems may be, for example, are: It is precisely when, in future, a person who goes on a daily allowance must be there for 15 hours per week. I think there may be a problem. If so, for example. If we are dealing with the maintenance of some buildings and there may be a craftsman who works there voluntarily for 15 hours each week for 4 weeks in a row, then we are over there where it can be said that it crowds out ordinary labour. I think I would ask the Minister to clarify how much work is actually to be done in connection with this voluntary work on a particular task over what we might call the craft sector. That could be nice. Because there has to be a limit to how much work can be done as a volunteer in the maintenance of buildings and such things, and if there is so much work to be done, it should be a janitor they had worked instead of, and I would ask the Minister to explain how much work can actually be done on a particular task in the field of crafts, because it would be good to clarify that, and there is nothing about that. I haven't been able to read anything about it. Today is four hours. But when we come to the point that it is 15 hours, I think we need an explanation of the extent to which we really have to work on it when the Minister also writes that it must not crowd out ordinary work. Because there must be some limit to how long you have to do it. I do not think the Minister has imagined that there is a craftsman who should be able to go there for 15 hours four weeks in a row, I do not think so, but it will be possible under the law as it is now; then there is no limit to it. In any case, I would ask the Minister to explain this in writing. Then there is another question that arises in this connection, and that is about the question of insurance. There are many ways to be voluntary and you can get a work injury if you work voluntarily to maintain something. You can also get a job injury if you, as a volunteer, are out helping a nursing home and taking a walk with an elderly person and falling and destroying a knee, and I would ask the Minister to explain in writing how you are covered in terms of insurance, i.e. whether there is a work injury insurance, a leisure accident insurance or what it is to cover. Or is it the municipality's insurance that covers it, if there is now a volunteer who works in the care of the elderly and walks with an elderly person and gets hurt and then actually has to have insurance cover? I would be very pleased if the Minister would give a written explanation of how insurance is covered in terms of insurance if one's own insurance cover is covered here. That is certainly very important. Because it also says that it does not involve costs for anyone. But if it is the municipal insurance that is supposed to cover it, then I do not expect the Minister to be able to answer it here from the platform, but ask that, in the context of further treatment, we get a written explanation of what is in the interests of the volunteers as far as insurance is concerned. With it in mind that we would like to have an explanation of the two things, we in the Danish People's Party can well support that one must work voluntarily for several hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101552	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101554	I do not understand the rapporteur's concerns about craft work, because it is not mentioned at all as an example of what can be done, and that means that we must start from the point of view that this cannot be done at all. Where I am most nervous is where there is actually the care of the elderly, the sick or the disabled. Then I'm nervous, because if a volunteer comes in for 15 hours and takes all that, what to call it, cozy work with older people, that is, where you talk and walk and make coffee and stuff like that, you first of all displace some real work that is being done today by others; secondly, the others have to do all the heavy work, and that means that the work that can help make it really exciting to work with older people makes the volunteer so. I could understand if Mr. Bøgsted mentioned it. But craft work is not mentioned at all as an example of what kind of unpaid work you can do, so I assume, as a matter of course, that it cannot be discussed at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101654	Perhaps you should assume that, but with the knowledge of associations and voluntary work, it is easy to get some volunteers to look at whether there is perhaps something to be painted or something to be maintained. You shouldn't assume, of course, that it's not being made. It is precisely the fact that it must not crowd out ordinary work, I agree with Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl in, also in the area of care, because it is not just the one area, it is many areas where one can say that one goes in and displaces ordinary work. It is therefore also important, as I said to the Minister, that we should have a description of what we really must do. I took this as an example, because I have heard of some associations and volunteers saying that they will take care of it when they go as volunteers anyway, but that is not allowed. I can quickly agree with the questioner that, of course, we must not go so long and work on a particular area. But let us now see what the Minister's statement is about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101801	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we go to the radical rapporteur, sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115101814	This bill is not among the most heavy in terms of reforms, but nevertheless it is an important proposal. This is important because it is a sharp example of how in practice we can link the labour market in Denmark, of which we are proud, with the voluntary sector. There have been many critical voices about why one is set off when working in voluntary associations and doing voluntary work. In fact, I believe that this is an example of how to fine-tune flexicurity, the Danish labour market model, in a modern context. Then it is true that it is an attempt, and I think it should be, by its very nature, so that we can evaluate it and some of the concerns that have already been raised today can be addressed. But it is important for me to stress that this is because we are now relaxing the rules and extending from 4 hours, so it is 15 hours that you can work unpaid without being drawn into benefits, if you are a beneficiary of early retirement or a beneficiary of unemployment benefit or are receiving flexitime benefits, because it is not a carte blanche for you to then not be available if you are now, for example, a beneficiary of unemployment benefit. is the recipient of the benefit. You still have to be an active jobseeker. Can this be abused? Well, once again, you can imagine situations where some will abuse it, but I still think that we are out in the margins so that we do not have to look at the possibility of implementing this bill with regard to theoretical possibilities of abuse, or that there may be few examples of abuse. I mean, overall, it's a really good bill. There are some very good principles behind this, and we in the Radical Left can clearly support them. And that is why, by its very nature, we can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102032	There are two brief comments, first from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102042	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that there is a difference between having four hours a week of unpaid work and 15 hours. In other words, in 15 hours a production can be made, if that is what it is all about, whereas in 4 hours it will be almost impossible for an employer to actually make something productive out of those hours. Does the rapporteur not think that it is necessary to look through the guidance material in order to be sure that there is no displacement work going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102117	Well, by nature there is a difference between 4 and 15 hours, that's why we do it, you might say. But it is clear that when we go from 4 to 15 hours, that is something that can be said of part-time work. But it has to be in a voluntary sector, and I do not think, in other words, from what I know about the labour market and the current links between the voluntary sector and the labour market, that this should give any particular risk of being abused. But it is clear that if there are some things we need to look at and make more precise, I am willing to look at it in committee. But I do not think that what is here should cause any greater concern. It certainly does not concern me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102214	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102217	I would just like to say that the professionals who work with the whole care sector are, of course, very nervous because there is a tendency also to systematically involve more and more voluntary hours in that work and to push more and more permanent staff into nursing homes and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102234	There I do not share the view that this should be a kind of zero-sum game, in which what you then provide in the care sector as a volunteer should be taken from some others. It can be understood more as a markup, that is to say, that the extra volunteer labour that comes in is helping to contribute to something that is not being done in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102258	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102310	I would like to make some fundamental points about voluntary work in Denmark, but also about being unemployed. Voluntary work in Denmark is very important. It is simply one of the pillars that makes civil society hang together, and it is thus a pillar that we cannot do without. Whether you are visiting an elderly person, collects from time to time to the Danish Red Cross or operates in a recycling shop under the People's Church's Emergency Aid. When you are unemployed, it is very important that you can also participate in such activities, and fortunately you can already do so as a visiting friend, who trains in a sports club for a boy or girl team and who collects for a humanitarian organisation such as Danish Refugee Aid. It is important that society does not handcuff the unemployed invisible to voluntary work, and neither does society, fortunately. The draft law then deals with a small sample of voluntary work, that which can be offered as ordinary wage work, but where the work is therefore unpaid. This is true, for example. an unemployed social worker who works in a counselling and uses his social worker training here, or a lawyer who works in legal aid and uses his law education in that context. Here it is that the rules so far have said that you can work for no more than four hours a week without being deducted from the daily allowance, and that is the figure that the government will now expand to 15 hours a week in the 2-year experiment. Here we are in a border area which is somewhat difficult. After all, it poses a risk that jobs that are being paid today will be turned into voluntary work without pay, and that is in various organisations. This means that there is a risk that ordinary jobs will disappear in favour of unemployed people working for their daily allowances. Of course, that is not acceptable, and that is why the LO is very concerned about today's proposal. The SF believes that this concern is quite right, which is why it is very, very important for us to keep an eye on what this attempt will mean in practice. It is in the proposal that the experiment should be evaluated in two years' time. However, I think it is very important to keep an eye on the fact that the experiment does not have adverse effects, precisely by the disappearance of ordinary jobs. And I believe that if it comes to the disappearance of a great deal of ordinary jobs before the end of the two-year experiment, then we should also be ready to intervene, in other words if it turns out that the problems with the proposal are going to be too great. The SF can support the draft law on the basis that it is a two-year attempt, but, as I have said, we would very strongly call for ongoing monitoring, as has also been suggested by the Collaboration of the Unemployment Funds in their consultation response.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102629	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr. Christian Juhl, rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115102640	I agree with the SF rapporteur that volunteering is an essential part of our democracy and way of acting as a civil society. Without that, it would be both a boring and a very sad democracy to live in. Therefore, it is of course important, when society can no longer secure a job for one for a period of time, that there must be some opportunity to make sense of life anyway while walking and waiting for the next job. It would be best if there were jobs for everyone, but that is not the aim the government has set itself, and that is why we have to live with the unemployment that exists and give it the most sensible framework. What is interesting is that people are so eager to work that they actually sometimes want to work for free. We see this with some of the arrangements that exist, for example. Useful jobs where people line up to be allowed to have a purpose in life. I have given some thought to the fact that this very disproves the bourgeois myth that people do not want to work. When you can really get up and go out and ask if you can't join in and get your useful job extended, it's about to be something wrong in society that there's no work for those who want to work. And practically everyone will. This is a dilemma we have here, because the unemployed must, of course, have the opportunity to do some sensible work and, as a rule, what they want to do, political work, housing work, social work, etc., but we also have to dampen their desire for it when it becomes ordinary work they go in and do, and they are going to crowd out. That is why there is a dilemma in this proposal that we need to take seriously. The announcement already says there are two things. One is the activities and there I do not see the big problem, because it is largely association work, whereas the other, i.e. what is called unpaid work, is really work, which could be ordinary work for others, and therefore there is a great risk of displacement when you do these things. We are actually moving from what one might call a symbolic opportunity to do something when one can do something for 4 hours, to a real part-time work of 15 hours when this experimental scheme gets under way. Yes, it is even the case that the National Association of Municipalities makes economic calculations of how much voluntary work can take over the problem of getting warm hands around the sectors. Therefore, we must pay close attention to what is happening here, and I understand that the people employed in the care sector in particular are nervous. If we are to support this proposal, we need to tighten up precisely on the announcement and guidance material, because otherwise it will go away for us. It is not enough to say that it is an experimental scheme. We must be fully aware that this must be covered by a fair system that we have in other areas, namely where we have wage subsidies jobs. There must be continuous monitoring at local level, which means that local labour market forces must be involved in monitoring where this is going. I also believe that we should go so far as to say that, when it is 15 hours, if there is paid labour at that workplace in advance, the union must come in and approve that unpaid work can be done here. Otherwise, it's gonna slip away. Then I would like us to work through the notice and guidance material so that there are no things in them that make people terrified, for example. As regards the proper care of the elderly, the sick or the disabled in their own homes. It is dangerous if it stays standing, and it is a pressure industry in advance that accepts so many people on different schemes that I can understand if you think: Where the hell are the ordinary jobs gradually about to be? I would ask that we talk to the Minister about this in committee because otherwise we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103041	Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103057	With this proposal, benefits, early retirement and flexitime benefit recipients will be able to do voluntary unpaid work in voluntary associations for up to 15 hours a week, compared to today 4 hours a week. This is a two-year trial period, and in the Liberal Alliance we can support this proposal. I cannot help saying that it says something about the system that we now have in Denmark. We have very high transfer incomes, very high rates of unemployment benefit, and that means that there are some problems of availability in these systems. It is therefore noted that there is a large minority of the beneficiaries of these benefits who are not available for the labour market when they are asked. And that is why all sorts of red tape and all kinds of rules and restrictions have to be imposed on how much they have to work voluntarily in the local sports association or whatever it may be. It is therefore a system that breeds bureaucracy, because it destroys the incentives for people to be in employment by themselves, too many people, far from being for all people. But since this is a two-year trial period, as I said, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103227	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103230	The rapporteur may apologize, but I do not understand the logic of starting to talk about availability in the middle of this. That's exactly the opposite. People are so eager to do something sensible in their lives that they actually make themselves available for ordinary work on quite a large scale, and we therefore have to make some minimum of limitation on it so that it does not crowd out the ordinary. Because we'd have a strange society if everyone had to work for free.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103258	No, that's not exactly how I see it. It is true that it may well be that there are people who think it is more interesting to work down in the local sports association, for example. And do sensible things. I myself have spent incredibly many hours in sports associations. There have also been people who were on cash benefits, and they loved to get down there, were coaches etc. And they spent a lot of hours, even more than four hours, on it. And maybe it was also sometimes a little more interesting to stand down there and deal with your hobby than it was to take a low-wage job. That's why you're one of them. It has had to impose some restrictions on it, because it might be seen that it was thus causing some problems. That is the problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103347	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103348	I see it now mostly as ordinary hetz against the unemployed, because there are no problems available in Denmark. In other words, when we look at how many jobs are assigned and how rare problems are actually available, it is virtually nothing, and I think it is quite inappropriate to bring this issue into this debate. This is about something quite different, actually something very positive from my point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103413	There are problems available in the Danish transfer income system. I guess we'll never agree on that, sir. Christian Juhl and I. I'm relying on the government's own analysis. As recently as August last year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs presented a report, distribution and incentives which says that when you ask the unemployed themselves, it is 33 per cent. by the recipients of cash benefits not available to the labour market. And 18%. According to them, the beneficiaries of low-wage benefits are also not available for the labour market. The availability of problems in the Danish transfer income system is quite uncontroversial to say. It has been illuminated for many years. Fortunately, things have improved, but they are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103459	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it is the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115103506	A really important part of our welfare is that we each have the opportunity to engage and take responsibility for each other and take responsibility for the community. It is a fundamental Danish value that we engage in many different things in Denmark, that we take responsibility for local communities, that we take responsibility for each other. Here voluntary work is an essential cornerstone of our Danish society, the values we have in our society, and the values we have grown up with as people who learn to take responsibility, not only for ourselves, but also for others. And it's whether it's weak and vulnerable or it's children who just want to play football. Among other things: For this reason, a few years ago, we tabled a motion for a resolution in this Chamber asking the government to debureaucratise and simplify the rules for voluntary work. It was precisely about these limitations that are for people who are outside the labour market for a period of time. Unfortunately, at the time, we did not get through with the resolution, which is why we are very happy and delighted that the government is now tabling this resolution. That is certainly a significant step in the right direction. We would have liked the rules to become somewhat more flexible, I must admit. We would have liked there not to be these time limits. We would also have liked to see the bureaucratic rules that exist, where it can be difficult to define what is an activity and what is voluntary work, not so narrow and restrictive, even in relation to state institutions or to private companies. Specifically, we believe that it is also to the benefit that some people may be able to do just the extra in a children's institution, in a place of residence, in a nursing home, and if for a shorter or longer period you do not have a job and have the opportunity to cook with your old mother who lives in a nursing home, and really think it is really nice that there are six or eight other elderly people who are involved, yes, it is really a pity that you do not dare to do so because you are afraid of the rules. That's why we'd like these rules to be a little less rigid. I'm afraid that's not exactly what the government is doing. You just give the opportunity for several hours within the same framework. But this is also a good and positive step, which we would therefore like to support. In relation to the individual unemployed, we also believe that it is not just good and valuable that one can continue to contribute to society. We should remember that some of the people who contribute a great deal in voluntary associations or otherwise do, for example. voluntary social work, that is, people who sometimes do it 15 or perhaps 20 hours while they have a full-time job, and those people are actually limited and have to make it less if they then become unemployed and have more time available to do so. It's kind of grotesque in itself. And what about the individual unemployed? Will you not be at your disposal? It is, of course, quite precise in the government's proposal that it should be done. We agree with that. Of course you have to. If you are asked to take a job, you are asked to show up for an interview, yes, of course you have to do it, and what is about volunteering is that it is voluntary, and that is why, of course, you have to say: unfortunately, I cannot come when there is something else that is more important. This is an essential condition for this to work. But having said that, a lot of volunteering also means that it maintains one in the possibility of having something to stand up for each morning. You don't fall into a swamp, sit at home and end up with not really getting done as much as maybe having a little breakfast on the couch and watching a little TV, because there's really nothing to stand up to as long as you don't have a job. For a lot of people it means a lot to have something to stand up to. That is why we also believe that engaging contributes to finding work more quickly as well. As an employer, I would also much rather employ an unemployed person who has shown that something has actually been done, that something has been contributed while you were unemployed than someone who has not done voluntary work. So, in every way possible, we also believe that it is a good idea for the individual unemployed and for the possibility of re-entering the labour market that there is room and space for us to be able to carry out the tasks we now have to offer, for example. in your community, even when you are unemployed. So yes, we warmly support the proposal and we would like to urge the government once again, as we did in our resolution, to consider whether we could not make things a little simpler so that we do not scare some people from doing the work that is so important, not just for the individual, but especially for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104045	There are brief comments. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104051	Thank you. There are many nice words from the rapporteur about the important importance of voluntary work. However, I do not think that there is any problem with the current restriction on the work of associations, sports associations, political associations and such things. Where we might have to look at it is where it displaces ordinary work. Is it entirely outside the rapporteur's imagination to imagine that when you go from 4 hours to 15 hours, there will be real pressure on ordinary workers, by the fact that the volunteers can then be used as a real labour force, thereby putting pressure and a risk of crowding out ordinary work in a number of areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104130-2	Compared to where we raise it from 4 hours to 15 hours, there is still the restriction that you are not allowed to do work for 16 hours. It is still a restriction. We really think this is a bit too bad, even because I believe that you can find a way to spend time also actively seeking jobs, even if you have 20 hours of volunteering a week. In relation to the fact that it may crowd out something, I just have to say that my experience is that, as the radical rapporteur also mentioned, it is an extra spice when you come and contribute something. And it is also, we must remember, for a period of time that one can do so. It is, of course, during a period when you are unemployed and therefore have the opportunity to contribute for perhaps 40 or 50 hours in a place where you used to come for 5 hours. So there are no reasonable people who plan for this, because we all know that when you have to be available for the labour market, you can suddenly sit at very short notice in a job and therefore you cannot come. That is why it is important to ensure that these are the additional activities. So I have to say that if it is in a voluntary organisation, then it is so typical that those who work voluntarily in that organisation are very voluntary and, to the extent that you cannot be there, it will be another volunteer who takes over. So I do not really see the big problem, which is why I do not see the big problems by making it a little easier to get in some of those places, for example. residences for vulnerable children or nursing homes, where there might well be a need for an extra opportunity for them to come out a little more or were a little more in the cooking, or the volunteer might even be able to sit and sew together with the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104319	It was spoken for two minutes!
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104322	It must be nice to live in such a protected part of our society that you cannot see that it is a problem. After all, nursing staff are so burdened by people in useful jobs and internships, people in wage subsidies jobs, and what do I know from various schemes. The fact is that in these years they are being squeezed out of their work and replaced by people on other schemes. Then you can't just say it's an extra hand, because it's not. The ordinary employees are actually and numerically squeezed out. I can tell you that, for example. In the state forests there are more on special schemes than ordinary employees, i.e. forest workers, on ordinary wages. If you can't see that it's a problem, you need stronger glasses.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104408	It is preferable not to use direct speech and preferably to keep to the speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104413	Now I do not really think I can see that volunteers are being taken in as forest workers. So I don't quite see the problem there. There is no doubt about that, and I have certainly seen that in many places there is a lot of pressure on the public employees in the care and care jobs, and among other things. For this reason, it is nice if you can add a little extra spice, for example. At his old mother's nursing home, when the staff are so pressured.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104445	Sir. Egil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104446	The Conservative rapporteur almost makes it sound as if there is an hour limit on any activity in which an unemployed person will participate. But that is not the case. The head is shaken, and I'm glad to hear that. The fact is that if you want to be a visiting friend, you have to be so in the number of hours you want to be unemployed. There is no limit of 4 hours, nor will there be a limit of 15 hours. This must be done without deduction from the daily allowance. So the purpose of my speech here is really just to make sure that we agree that for a number of activities that you can participate in as a volunteer, such as visiting friend, there are no time limits today, and there will be no time limits tomorrow either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104534-2	Quite right. But the lawyer must not sit inside the Legal Service full-time and contribute in there. That's a little too bad. In addition, the problem is that the visitor's friend may be nervous about something that is defined in the category where there is direct deduction immediately, and we really think that is a little bit awkward, i.e. if you have a professionalism that makes you, for example. could help a little with some extra stuff. It is also just a pity that, as a volunteer, you have to worry about it, that you cannot just do what you want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104607	Thank you to the rapporteur and the authors. No, sir. Eigil Andersen would like to ask again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104614	I am glad that we agree that the hour rule is not there for a visitor friend, for example. But does the rapporteur not see that there can be a problem if an educated lawyer is really going to fill a role in which he works for his daily allowance, a job that could have been paid? That means, of course, if we are now to take a conservative approach, that taxpayers' money in the form of daily allowances is used to help eliminate jobs in society. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a problem in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104648	Now the rapporteur also thinks that it is right, very good, that we have voluntary organisations where we do voluntary work and also contribute something where we are professionally competent to contribute it, and so we have no problem whatsoever with that. However, I also stressed in my rapporteur's speech that it is of course essential that we really should be available for the labour market, and the moment there is a paid job that you can take, you must of course take it, and then voluntary work must not stand in the way. But I also have no problem with the fact that, even if you have a full-time job, you have full-time volunteering next door. To the extent that it takes something away from someone, I would say that I do not think it takes anything away from anyone, that we are making an effort for our society, for example. in an organisation that helps vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104735	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104745	I would like to start by thanking virtually all the rapporteurs for the discussion on the government's legislative proposal. This has led to a discussion about crowding out ordinary jobs, and of course I think that is both an okay and relevant discussion. I am now not so worried because, in my view, it is very clear that work relating to primary operation and maintenance provides a deduction from the first hour, and I think that is perhaps a very good approach to this discussion. Of course, I am also happy to take part in the work of the committee on the issue which has taken up at least some of the rapporteurs. Otherwise, I would like to say that this is of course a contribution to ensuring that the voluntary and civil society that we have in Denmark can have better conditions. For me there is no doubt that one of the qualities of Danish society is that we care about each other and that one of the qualities is that there are so many people who, apart from just caring for their work and their family, are concerned about how exactly the local community they are part of works in a number of areas, and they then make a voluntary contribution to that. Here we give a little extra hand and a little extra opportunity to those who would also like to be volunteers when they are in voluntary unpaid work, and it is quite clear, as I said, when it will displace and when it will not displace. However, as I said, I am also happy to take part in the debate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104933	This triggered brief remarks, first from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115104937	I would like to hear from the Minister whether he does not think we should take the objections from among others. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy A good example is, of course, in relation to the Conservative rapporteur. I can tell you that in the state forests, the number of forest workers in 10 years has halved from 700 to around 360-370 pieces, that volunteers today are making bike paths, for example. The BMX clubs make bike paths that nature guidance is carried out by nature associations, where it was previously specially trained forest workers with a special training in the guidance of the audience. In this way, there is notorious evidence that special schemes are helping to displace ordinary jobs, even in the case of state forests on an extreme scale.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105036	Of course, I am not going to be an expert on state forests, but I must say so much in relation to that, Mr President. Christian Juhl asks that I am not sure that the BMX club was given its opportunity to practice, if no one did it, also voluntarily. But in principle, of course, we should be aware that volunteers should not be forced to displace ordinary jobs. That is also why I say it very precisely: tasks which relate primarily to operation and maintenance give deduction from the first hour. The second thing I'm saying is that we've made a two-year scheme here, because of course we want to make sure this is done properly. However, for me, it is absolutely crucial that we provide better opportunities for people to participate in volunteering, for this society to have some very extra qualities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105134	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105135	Well, we have to take it more seriously. Now I'm not a specialist in state forests either, but after all I've worked there, and in the summer, where you can't forest, we did the trails and all the public work, the nature guide, showed people around and all those things, and it was ordinary work when I was in the woods. Today it is the case that you fire the forest workers first, and then you say to the audience: you can't get the same service, you can't get nature guidance, you can't get maintenance of those bike paths. And then the volunteers say, of course, when a BMX club wants to ride a bike in the woods: Well then we do it ourselves. This means that the process will then be slipping by precisely removing ordinary, good permanent jobs with exciting work and allowing them to be taken over by voluntary work. That is why I ask that we be very, very serious in this situation. The whole care sector is extremely pressured, at least as pressured as it is, so one can say small part, as the state forests are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105238	It's not fair to say I'm not taking this seriously. I actually think I've made it clear two or three times in this round that we have to do that, and then I start every time I do and I'm gonna do that in the answer here... by saying: Work that relates primarily to operation and maintenance gives a deduction from the first hour. So what is just my point here is that here we are giving some new great opportunities, both for the individual people who want to be volunteers, and for this society and the cohesion. Then there may be some corners that the LO and others have pointed at, well then let's follow it. So we also have a two-year rule here, where we have to have it evaluated. So I am also interested in looking for the needle in the haystack, but I am much more concerned with the new and good opportunities that this actually offers, also for those people who, for example, for a period of time. is unemployed and would like to make sure to have a lot of content in life, as Mr. Christian Juhl, by the way, made a very precise statement in his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105339	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105342	I very much agree that the rule that primary operation and maintenance lead to a reduction in daily allowances from hour one gives some certainty in this area. However, I do not believe that the discussion is over, because in the examples I mentioned, whether a social worker who is involved in an advisory service or a lawyer who is involved in legal aid, there is still a problem that ordinary jobs could disappear on this basis. All right. What I want to ask is that these are very complicated rules. We have divided the nature of the work into three categories, and it is in itself complicated, and in one of the categories there is even an exception. Are there any thoughts on how to strengthen the awareness-raising effort on this? Because the rules will also be complicated with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105440	I'm not only 100, I'm 120 percent. agree with Mr. Eigil Andersen says the rules are complicated. I would like to say that you will find out if nothing else when you become a minister. And we should also like to make them clearer. To the question, of course, I would like to say that, of course, you should not get wrong here because you want to be voluntary and you have not fully understood the rules, which is why this is a combination and involves what you have to take on your own role. Those associations have a duty to provide information, and we also have something in the proposal about the obligation to provide information that associations have via websites and so on. That is why, of course, I agree in principle with what Mr. Eigil Andersen suggests that people shouldn't get hurt here. But again, I'd like to go back to the superiors. I think we're giving some people some extra opportunities to participate in making this society better together, too, for the joy of themselves in their daily lives. And then there are some things that I am not neglecting, but which we would be happy to discuss in the course of the committee's work and perhaps become even more precise about as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105550	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105555	Thank you. It is actually good that the Minister says that primary operations and maintenance are deducted hour by hour, because I think that the associations are confused at a higher level when they start looking at what they can use these 15 hours of volunteering for around. As Mrs Charlotte Dyremose said, they can go up and cook for the elderly. Cooking is primary, as far as I know, that means they must not, it is deducted hour by hour. That is why it is important, as Mr. Christian Juhl says that you get a guide that is unmistakable for the associations, otherwise they can easily get into trouble. However, I assume that the Minister will provide proper guidance so that it is not misunderstood. The second thing I left was this insurance issue. There is therefore a great deal of confusion. Is it the municipality that covers if they get hurt when they are out walking with one of the elderly or working in a kindergarten as a volunteer or in a sports association? Who's gonna cover insurance if someone gets hurt? I don't expect the Minister to be able to answer this right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105703	In general terms, I would say that what we have to bear in mind is that in the rules we have today with 4 hours, there are no changes taking place with the 15 hours beyond what is, of course, also significant, the number of hours. The second point I should like to make is that I took note of the question put by Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted on insurance. I cannot answer here from the platform whether it is the leisure and accident insurance that you yourself have, or it is the municipality's or the association's insurance, but I think it is a relevant discussion which is also not, it can be said, of course relates to this draft law, but that is a relevant discussion at all, so let us use the committee work to clarify it and examine it more precisely and also to see what the obligations of voluntary organizations are with regard to volunteers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105748	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105750	Now the Minister says it has nothing to do with this bill, but if you work as a volunteer, you can get wrong. Then it is, of course, in connection with giving several hours where people can get hurt as volunteers, because it is 15 hours instead of 4 hours. That is to say, the risk of everything else being equal must be increased because you are there more, so it has something to do with it. And there is a great deal of confusion in the municipalities about who is now covering the damage that has happened. But I will ensure that a question is sent to the Minister and I certainly do not expect an answer to be given to such an insurance question for those who work voluntarily, here and now, but we will ensure that a question is sent to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105829-2	I will see to it that the answer is given quickly and precisely to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105835	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115105837	Thank you. As Mr. Christian Juhl pointed out that the existing rules even invite voluntary workers to take over tasks which must clearly be challenged by trained staff, for example. care and care personnel. So it is an extremely relevant issue to deal with this and get clear boundaries in relation to such a bill. If you ask the voluntary organisations, for example. Voluntary Forum, which brings together a large number of voluntary organisations, they say that the main problem here is in fact that the municipalities themselves are increasingly hiring volunteers to fill some of the gaps created by many years of welfare cuts, not least in the area of the elderly. Their recommendation is that there should be clear rules that when municipalities need volunteers, they should not be able to hire them themselves. They must make arrangements with the voluntary organisations themselves, so that there are clear guidelines, so that we do not run the risk of the volunteers being abused to put it bluntly, but also to ensure that the volunteers do not get into situations where they can get themselves into trouble, for example. in insurance matters. I would like to ask the Minister: is this something that the Minister will be working on in this connection? In other words, will he continue to work with clear rules for local authorities to make agreements on the use of volunteers with the voluntary organisations themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110013	I am not quite sure that I can see through the scope of the question. I just want to say that what I experience in the everyday life that I myself have had are some nursing homes where there are voluntary organisations in which I have also participated, and no one is forced to do something, but they help to give an extra dimension to that very nursing home, so there is content in the lives of the elderly who are there. And it wouldn't be given if the voluntary advice that's in that very nursing home weren't there. Then I have to go back to saying that it is quite clear that when it comes to primary operations and maintenance, there is a deduction from day one. My third answer, if that is an answer, is that the municipalities which in this way try, as Mr. Finn Sørensen describes it, taking advantage of the volunteers, I think it's going to get away with it very badly. I think the volunteers have a gene in them that says they want to help make a contribution here, but they will not be exploited in the way I heard the question as suggested. But I have given undertakings to both Mr. Eigil Andersen and Mr. Christian Juhl says that I want to be a part of this discussion, but the main thing for me is to say that what we do is that we increase the number of hours. The rules, by the way, are not being changed in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110135	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110138	But that is where we are a couple of rapporteurs and parties who can see that things are connected and that increasing the number of hours when people can do voluntary work will in itself be a strong temptation for the municipalities that have cut down sharply on, for example. the area of the elderly, to a much greater extent to use volunteers. After all, it is not certain that all those who would like to do a voluntary job and I think we should acknowledge that and be very pleased that there are many citizens who would like to be informed of the rules and what they may and cannot do and what is reasonable. And that is where it will be important for the municipalities to have clear obligations to make agreements on the use of volunteers with the voluntary organisations themselves. It may then be organisations • and that is why I use the wording • the volunteers themselves have set up to solve a special task. It is not in order to monopolise the power of certain voluntary organisations that I propose it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110242	That is precisely why I am a little reluctant in my answer. What I just don't want to do is overbureaucratize this. I can see from the local nursing homes, which I have had the opportunity to visit, that this is going on quietly and helps to provide better content in the lives of the people that this is about. I don't want to do any over-bureaucratisation in this area. On the other hand, however, I would also like to take the debate on displacement seriously, and that is why I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, as I have said to other rapporteurs, I would very much like to take part in the committee's work in this very debate as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110317	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110334	First of all, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110404	Thank you. The draft law here concerns a tightening of the level of fines in respect of an infringement of the obligation to notify the RUT of a more serious nature. The overall aim of the bill is to counteract social dumping and to contribute to more effective compliance with the applicable rules on reporting obligations of foreign companies to the Register of Foreign Service Providers. The draft law proposes an amendment to Article 10a (l) (a) (ii) of the Directive. 3, so that an infringement of a more serious nature is manifested in the measurement of the penalty and is thus regarded as an aggravating circumstance. For example, when we talk about a situation of a more serious nature, we refer to repeated violations and extensive misinformation. In circumstances of a more serious nature, it is proposed that the normal fine should be increased by 100% as a starting point. In addition, in normal cases the level of fines for non-compliance with the notification obligation for RUT is currently DKK 10,000. In the end, it will be the court that will decide the level of fines in each case. The bill, if adopted by the Danish Parliament, will enter into force on 1 March 2015. In the Left, we very much welcome the free movement of workers, but at the same time we also need to take consistent action against the minority that exploits the system. We must combat social dumping, and that is why we must make the necessary adjustments on an ongoing basis, in cooperation with the social partners, because it helps to ensure compliance with wage and working conditions for employees and fair competition for employers. The Left supports this bill to tighten up the level of fines in relation to compliance with the notification obligation for RUT, but we believe, firstly, that we must ensure that the current rules in RUT are complied with and that it has consequences in the form of fines if that does not happen. Secondly, of course, the fines must be recovered, and this is probably the main problem. Because if we only take unpaid fines due to breach of the Posting of Workers Act for the year 2013, we can see that SKAT has only managed to recover around 45%. of the unpaid fines. So we believe that the legislative proposal to increase the level of fines is primarily a question of sending a signal, and only when the fines are actually recovered will companies that do not comply with the law be able to feel it. So we need the government and the SKAT to ensure that the fines are actually recovered so that companies really feel it when they violate the posting legislation. But on that basis, we would like to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110702	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110705	Thank you. I am really glad that the Left supports this bill and that they are thus also defying the negative attitude that comes from the Danish Employers' Association, where you think it is a bad idea. So I think that's really satisfying. I also very much agree with the rapporteur that it is fine that we increase the penalty, but it is quite important that we can effect it and ensure that the fines imposed are actually paid as well. Then there is just the difficulty that we are dealing with companies that are posted and that tend to disappear out of the country before they pay the fine. It has, of course, been found that until now no effective instruments have been found on how to get those fines home. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: was it not a good idea to follow the Enhedslisten's proposal that we make legislation on chain liability for the main contractor, so that it can also be made financially responsible for the possibility that a fine has not been paid by a subcontractor? That was a very effective tool, so if we are going to go the way the rapporteur would like, and we would all like to do so, then I think that the Left should be positive about those ideas of chain responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110825	After all, the aim is to recover the fines, and I have a reply back here from September from the former Minister for Employment, who explained that it was extremely difficult just in our own system in Denmark. SKAT doesn't keep track of how much we get recovered in relation to the posting legislation and violation of this legislation. That is now under control, but still. It was, in fact, a depressing answer to get that less than half of the unpaid fines are actually being recovered. So I think that is what we need to concentrate on. In other words, we are not concerned about restricting competition and freedom of movement by creating special rules in Denmark that restrict competition and thus make it more expensive for public authorities to build.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110913	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115110915	Now the Left has misunderstood the idea of chain responsibility. Firstly, if you think that it is something very special that we do in Denmark, but do not have in other countries eight EU countries have it in advance, you have to think again, because it is not so strange. Secondly, it will not in any way restrict competition, because it must, of course, be a chain liability that applies to all companies and not just the foreign ones. Such discrimination cannot be done. Then it's just that I'm saying, if the Left doesn't want to take part in those thoughts, but we agree that these fines have to be recovered, but it's obviously very, very difficult, among other things. for the reason that I am pointing out that it is foreign companies that disappear before they pay the fine and are not able to get their hands on it in Poland, and that there are no legal tools, or the necessary cooperation with the other countries to recover the money, it was natural to introduce a system so that we ensure that a major contractor using a whole lot of subcontractors of a foreign nature, Eastern European companies, could be placed under financial responsibility to pay the fines, the lack of tax, the lack of wages, etc. that subcontractors do not pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111034	I think it is a very long way to go to ensure that the fines imposed in Denmark for companies operating their business in Denmark are also recovered. I think that we should ensure that the authorities in Denmark and Poland cooperate more closely in order to recover these fines, because I do not agree that this is only a signal we can send today to raise the level of fines. If what has actually happened is that the company continues to fail to pay the fines, then we will be in the same position, and that is why we need the authorities in the countries with which we are working to ensure that this is the way around which we ensure that the fines are introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111115	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111130	Thank you. Denmark is a country where you can make a living from going to work. I'm really, really happy about that. For me, it is a very fundamental thing in our society that we have security in terms of pay and employment, that we do not need double jobs if we are unskilled and low-paid, but that we actually have a basic level that ensures that we can support a family and have dignified relationships. Employers and workers are the masters of this. They negotiate, they deal with and, as far as possible, we leave politicians out of it. When the rules of the game they set up together are not respected, they also each have the tools to put it to good use, and it is a very strong system. Alongside that, of course, we have legislation that the authorities are out to control. All of this requires a great deal of effort on the part of employers, workers and authorities, and all of this can be done primarily if we know who is in Denmark; if we know where people work; and if we basically know where to lead. That is why the Register of Foreign Service Providers is important, and that is why I disagreed with the then Minister for Employment, Mrs Inger Løjberg, when she said in the morning of time that it was not so important to register in this register. This is very important, because without the register and without a basic knowledge of what it is for some foreign service providers who are here, where they are and how many they are, it is really difficult to maintain the rules we have, the basic security we have on the Danish labour market and which is so important a part of being in Denmark. It must therefore also be risky to cheat. There must be a real risk of being caught if you cheat. It must be felt on the wallet, and then especially if you have been caught not only once, but several times. And if you're out to make violent violations in this field, it has to be felt even more. That is why I am very pleased with the legislative proposal we are debating today. The government and the Social Democrats have had a very, very strong cooperation with Enhedslisten and SF in four repeated financial laws. In the fourth year in a row, we have had very, very strong cooperation with the two parties. I am pleased about that, because it means that the fight against social dumping is not just something we are dealing with in connection with this one legislative proposal, but is a long string of initiatives that have been taken and where this is only the latest step in a direction in which we ensure proper working conditions in Denmark. I think this will be another step in that direction, which is why I am pleased to be able to say that the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111433	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111437	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I can also acknowledge the rapporteur's appreciation of the cooperation we have had in this area. I agree that we have taken many small and also a few slightly larger steps to address this problem, and the bill we have here is one of them. But does the rapporteur also agree that the rapporteur of the Left has some point? Because when we look at the extent to which we can actually ensure that the fines imposed are recovered, there is room for improvement. There I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what has the rapporteur thought about this? And the rapporteur also said: we want to be involved in more far-reaching steps. I'd like to hear about that, too. After all, I have mentioned the proposal for chain liability. I don't think I need to explain that much. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it will not be one of the effective tools, including in this area. There is also the question of going further legislatively and saying that if you repeatedly violate these rules, you should also be able to be told that your services here in Denmark are not well known; that you cannot provide services here in Denmark if you cannot find out how to comply with the rules that we have set up. I would like to hear the rapporteur's thoughts on further ideas for stepping up efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111605	This conversation and political idea development is one of the things I really appreciate in the collaboration we have with both SF and Enhedslisten. I think this is a good proposal. I also believe that we can be even better, and I would very much like us to have even more fines collected. I think that the bill we are discussing today is a step in the right direction, but I think that we owe each other a great deal, and not least the Danish labour market, the Danish labour market model and the employees we are discussing here, to continue to develop and continue to come up with new initiatives that will come to an end, while maintaining the balance between what we decide in this area of legislation and what I also started by saying in my rapporteur's speech and the labour market with the model of employer and worker, which is so strong and which gives us so much strength in Denmark. I also have an understanding of this on the part of the rapporteur and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111705	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111707	Thank you. Well, that was a lot of friendly and welcoming words. One might say that we should not take a large circle of studies on what else we can do here, but in fact I just think that there is a relevant reason for this. I agree with the Left at least on this point that we have a problem when so many of the fines that are being issued are not being paid, because then the preventive effect of this, which I hope is also doing something like this, is not as strong as we would like. That is why I think it is natural that we should also discuss what further steps we could take here. It may well be that we will not be able to include them as amendments in this draft law; we may not be able to do so. But I think that the trade union movement is listening a lot here, and I do not see that we at least do not owe much to Enhedslisten in relation to ideas exchanges. We may have to come together with more effective tools than those we have been able to come with so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111809	Yeah, yeah, more wants more. I think we are in complete agreement. I share the concern, as I said just now, and we should very much like to have even more of the fines that are being issued in the box. It is clear that when I talk about the risk of being caught and that, if you are caught, it must be felt on your wallet, both are really important. We have turned up the regulatory control because there must be a real risk of being caught. Now we turn up the size of the fine, because it must also be felt on the wallet. But it doesn't really matter if you can get away with never paying. That is why it is a very important effort which I think we should continue to discuss, even after we have done this. That would be a natural extension. In any case, I would very much like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111855	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115111915	Thank you, President. After all, this bill tightens up the registration requirement for the RUT register so that you can get a fine of DKK 20,000. instead of 10,000 kroner. in the case of a first-time offence. Today it is the case that you get a fine of 10,000 kroner, and then the courts have paid 15,000 kroner by second-time offense. and the third time 20,000 kroner. Now it's the way to raise the fine by 100 per cent. And says first-time offense is 20,000 kroner. But it is still up to the courts to judge whether or not it should be the 20,000 kroner, if I understand correctly. But it may also be that it is in connection with the second and third time that it is believed that it is still the courts that have to judge it. It doesn't say anything about that. But I think we should see if we could tighten it up further. Now we have seen a verdict in Belgium where you have to register for the register before you start. You could do that at home, there's nothing wrong with that. If foreign companies have been given a job here, then they know in advance that they are going to Denmark and that it has to be notified. They can report to the register before they start work. I also think we should look at whether, when they sign up for the RUT register, foreign service providers should deposit a deposit of e.g. 20,000 kr., it could also be 30,000 kr., and if they comply with all the rules, they get the money back. Then you want a little hand in hand with them, because then they know that there are certain rules they have to live up to. If they don't live up to the rules, they're gonna pay at box one, because if they don't get the deposit back, they're gonna keep all the rules, they're gonna get the money back. This is certainly something that we in the Danish People's Party will be looking at, and then possibly table an amendment that we should also have looked a little more closely at how it can be achieved. I see no reason why companies that are in order should not be able to register until they start work. For them it doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter if they have to deposit when they know they get the money back. But it will for the companies that want to defraud, they might think a little extra about it. At least this is something that we in the Danish People's Party will continue to work on in connection with this bill. It would be appropriate for us to proceed with the rules in Denmark. They can do that in Belgium. Why, then, should we not take advantage of that opportunity and say that we are also tightening up here in Denmark and avoiding social dumping in this way? In these words, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal, but we will look at amendments to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112202	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112211	Thank you. I think that the Socialist rapporteur actually laid the foundations for my speech very well, namely that we are open to those who will come to Denmark and work. And we are open to those who want to compete on the Danish labour market, on the market at all, and I believe that, in fact, the vast majority of Danish employees can cope with the competition as long as it is fair and on Danish terms. There I think it is important that we ensure that the fight against social dumping is continuous and that we constantly fine-tune it. When I say fine-tuning, it is about the fact that there is no Columbus egg and you cannot say: okay, then we have a miracle cure by which we can win the fight against social dumping once and for all. It is about constantly focusing on it, acting on it and constantly ensuring that where there is cheating or where the fight is, so to speak, not effective, we have to provide new tools. Thus, in the last three financial laws, we have also invested in the government in the fight against social dumping. As has also been said, it is true that it is not just a question of imposing fines, issuing fines and increasing fines; it is part of it, because of course the fines must also be recovered, and I think that we should also focus on that in the future. So this proposal to increase the amount of the fine, I think, is important. But is that enough? No, it's not. And I am sure that this is not the last proposal we have seen in the fight against social dumping. So all in all, the Radical Left can back up. I would just like to say one thing at the end here, and that is that we have an incredibly good labour market model in Denmark, and we must safeguard it. We must not take the Danish labour market model for granted, understood in the sense that it always comes under pressure, and there it is up to us politicians, also together with the social partners and especially the worker side, to ensure that there are proper wage conditions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112447	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112451	Thank you. After all, I am also pleased with the cooperation with the Radical Left, which we have had for several years now, to strengthen the fight against social dumping. And then I am glad that the rapporteur recognizes that this is a good small step, but it is not enough. Then it is just that I would just like to hear: what concrete ideas does the rapporteur have for us to be able to step up our efforts and make it even better?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112519	In other words, one thing is the professional ideas, measures and visions about social dumping; another is to be able to effect them politically in various negotiations. So I do not really want to say anything concrete now, but I would very much like to talk to the Enhedslist about this if it is needed in the future in relation to negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112548	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112549	Thank you. Yes, it was not very informative and perhaps not an expression of the great creativity of the rapporteur, but I asked because the rapporteur acknowledged that this is a fine step, but it is not enough. And then it is natural that we should also think about what more needs to be done to ensure that it is effective. Otherwise, there is not enough emphasis to be placed on recognising that it is not enough. And we do not have to wait there; there is a need for it here and now. So I would like to call again for concrete ideas that the rapporteur has to do something that works even better than what we are adopting here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112627	Yeah, take, for example. The RUT registry. It has been in existence for a number of years now, but there are still some things we can do better, and we are doing so now with this proposal to increase the amount of fines. This is just an example of the fact that it is also a question of following up on some of the initiatives we have already adopted. That is a partial answer to the question. The second is that I do not want to spoil the tension in relation to the meetings that should be between Enhedslisten and the Radical Left in relation to social dumping, so in order to keep the thrill curve a little intact, I think we should actually take it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112711	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we go to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115112723	In Denmark we have a model for the labour market that we in the SF would very much like to safeguard. The trade union movement has, through a long professional struggle, ensured fair pay and working conditions for its members, and this is a result which has not come about by itself, but reflects some very long, tough features in which we have gradually ensured better conditions and more rights for employees. The Danish labour market model ensures security for the individual employee, but it also ensures the necessary flexibility for companies to adapt and be competitive. This is because, historically, we have had a finely masked safety net and good opportunities to get back to work quickly if you were to be fired. This development must not be jeopardised by the fact that, in a misguided view of a desire for the lowest possible costs, we overlook the fact that companies in this country hire underpaid foreign labour from, for example, Eastern Europe for wages well below the Danish collective agreement level and where in many cases there is also cheating on the payment of tax and VAT. It destroys the Danish model, and it will ultimately affect the craftsman, construction worker or truck driver who becomes unemployed because he cannot compete with the unfairly low wages that we have seen many examples of. I may be afraid that the bourgeois parties are willing to create more insecurity among ordinary, hard-working Danes, especially when making big gaps in the social safety net for the unemployed by shortening the benefit period. This is a point which the Radicals have also contributed to, and when the radical rapporteur said a moment ago that the Radicals would like to uphold the Danish labour market model, I think that the shortening of the benefit period from four to two years, which the Radicals are firmly committed to, and the doubling of the labour demand is an example of the fact that the Danish labour market model is in fact being destroyed. What we need is greater security in the labour market. SF has proposed a number of different measures to safeguard our labour market. We want chain liability at all levels, so the main contractor has a clear incentive not to enter with creepy sub-contractors who also cheat on taxes and VAT. In this context, we therefore agree with Enhedslisten that the collection of fines will of course also have to be done through such chain liability. We also believe in the SF that we should have so-called working clauses with demands for Danish pay and working conditions in all regions and municipalities, so as to ensure that tax dollars can go to pay well under the agreement. These are some things that we in the SF will continue to work hard to become a reality. Having said that, I would like to sign the agreement on combating social dumping that SF and Enhedslisten entered into with the government in connection with the Finance Act Agreement for this year, 2015. Although that is far from enough, it is a major step in the right direction when it comes to safeguarding our labour market. As mentioned above, the draft law will then increase the fines for repeated infringements of the notification obligation to the RUT register for foreign companies. I hope that it will prevent several foreign companies from registering as they should, and that it will not succeed in preventing them from being checked by the trade union movement and the Danish authorities. So the SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113115	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we go to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113135	Thank you. Of course, the Enhedslisten also supports the bill. This is part of the excellent agreement on combating social dumping that we concluded in the context of the financial regulation, and other good things will come out of it along the way. After all, it is also positive that we are tightening the penalties against foreign companies that violate the rules on registration. However, as we have already noted today, there is a certain realism that we should not overestimate the importance and effect of this. First of all, I think we have to say that the fines are too small to have a really effective preventive effect, because in many cases we are dealing with cynical employers who can calculate that they have to pay 10,000 or 20,000 kroner. at some time when they may be caught in having broken some rules. After all, this does not correspond at all to the huge extra profits they make when they are able to provide services in this country to wages that are less than half of what is otherwise paid on the Danish labour market. We also have the fact that a large proportion of these companies never pay the fine, which is probably due to the fact that they are leaving the country before they get that far. That is why we have to recognise that this is a good but small step in the continuing fight against social dumping. After all, it is gratifying that we are now already beginning to discuss what further steps we can take. There we are, for example. agree with the LO that we should raise the fines in general. We also think that it should be the case that if there are really serious violations and repeat cases, it should also be possible to say to such a foreign company: you know what, you are not welcome in this country; when you cannot find out how to comply with the rules, you should not be allowed to provide services in Denmark. Then we should tighten up the penalties against the recruiters, because they are some people in this country. There we have an opportunity to have a leash in it and to impose special tasks on them. Then we should increase regulatory control, and fortunately we have agreed on this, and that is probably the most effective in the financial law agreement we have made. But we will also recognise that, although we are actually doubling our efforts in this area, it will still turn out that a large proportion of the employers who receive these fines will manage to avoid paying them. Then, as the Danish People's Party mentioned, and as I have also proposed to the Minister for Employment, we can also tighten up the rules for registration. It must be the case that you do not get to know it just the day before when you have to provide a service in Denmark, so we could well demand that you have to pre-register significantly earlier, for example. One week before. After all, we still have gone, we believe in the Enhedslisten, to use the tools that really work, and it has to be said that legislation on chain liability that places the main contractor in charge of paying wages, taxes, VAT, social contributions and fines all the way down the chain is the most effective means of clearing up social dumping and undeclared work. We have to sort at the source, as it were. There must be what many would like in this Parliament, namely a strong financial incentive for the main contractor to choose the right subcontractors, so that we sort at the source and the main contractor ensures that sub-contractors who are in order are used. This will benefit the many small Danish craft enterprises, which simply cannot compete under the conditions that posted companies have the opportunity to do. After all, as only SF has unfortunately mentioned, it must be ensured to a much greater extent that all public contracts with private companies comply with the excellent circular issued by the Ministry of Employment last June, which clearly states that all the way down the chain must be paid according to normal Danish terms and conditions of employment, and that as a contracting authority one should also make sure that one has the possibility of enforcing control and also imposing financial penalties on the main contractor if he does not comply with the terms of the contract. So we can do a great many other things in addition to those we have carried out so far, and I hope that at some point we will succeed in convincing the governing parties that it is therefore necessary to take action on this chain liability legislation. Otherwise we will not really solve this problem of social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113653	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113703	Thank you very much. With this bill, the government is tightening the fine for breaching the notification obligation to the RUT register. The bill increases the fine by 100% if the rules are violated the second time. Let me start by saying that we cannot support this bill. We cannot do this because we think it is primarily symbolic policy. A lot of the fines that are being issued today are not being paid. I think that's about half of them. So you could start by making sure that the fines that are being issued are actually paid before you start to raise the fines. Secondly, and I think that should be borne in mind, the fact that a company has not registered in the RUT register does not mean that they have not paid the right salary, that they have not paid taxes or all sorts of other things. It is interpreted as if these are criminals and some who do not comply with agreements or other Danish legislation, but it is not certain that this is the case. Here it is just that they haven't signed up in this register, which you have to sign up for when you have to do a job on the Danish market. I think it is important to bear that in mind. In addition, for reasons of legal certainty, we are also very concerned that the Labour Inspectorate has this possibility of imposing administrative fines. This is not something we like in general terms. But above all we think this is an expression of signal legislation, it is a classic policy; politicians must be strong and as if they are trying to do something about something they consider to be a problem, and therefore they are raising the fines. But we can't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113905	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113908	Thank you. It is just to find out what the rapporteur really thinks about fines in this case. Does the rapporteur think that it is at all wrong to impose a fine if they do not comply with the rules on registration in the RUT, so that it is not just a question of not doubling them, but that it is wrong at all to impose a fine for such an offence?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113931	We think it is wrong at all that there is a RUT register. We find it deeply strange that, in order to be on the Danish labour market and to provide a service or task on the Danish labour market as a foreign company, one should be in a certain register. We think that's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113952	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115113953	In other words, the rapporteur believes that foreign companies should be better off than Danish companies. In order to operate in Denmark one must be registered in a particular company register, otherwise the business one is not legal. That is not what we should be demanding of foreign companies. They just need to be allowed to behave as they please and to ignore the rules that are here without the authorities having any opportunity to check who they are and to check whether they are actually complying with the rules. That must be the conclusion of the rapporteur's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114031	Foreign companies are registered in the countries in which they belong, and here they will often be other EU countries, and they can then explain that they are. But let me stress that they must comply with the laws of the country, they must pay Danish taxes, they must comply with the agreements they have entered into with the social partners, etc. The labour market must check that they do. And then I just want to say that this isn't such a controversial point of view. It has, of course, been discussed in the EU too, whether this RUT register is legal at all. There is a legal discussion about this in the European Union and it is going on right now. So the rapporteur should not interpret it as if it is an extremely controversial view that there is concern about the RUT register.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114120	A brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114122	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen says that the Liberal Alliance is also opposed to the fact that the Labour Inspectorate can impose administrative fines. There is another area in Danish society where we have administrative fines. They're parking tickets. If you get a parking ticket, you can do two things. You can choose either to pay it or not to pay it. If you fail to pay it, the case goes to court. Missing notification to the RUT register is exactly the same. You can have the case in court if you think it is wrong and unfair, and so I would like to ask: what is the legal certainty problem of administrative fines in relation to the RUT register and the Factory Inspectorate? That is exactly the same as parking tickets.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114211	There's something proportional about these things. I also think the rapporteur can see that there is a difference between that and a parking ticket of 500 kroner. In other words, it is not rare for citizens to have parking tickets that are not fair or fair and have very, very, very serious problems with having them redeployed and, moreover, many people also give up having them converted because it is difficult. I understand that the SF rapporteur does not care about the citizens and thinks it is fine and does not see any problems in administrative fines. But we kind of do, 'cause some people get stuck. That is why, for reasons of legal certainty, we are concerned about the way in which fines are imposed, as is the case with many lawyers. But there is still a difference, I would say, both in terms of the amount of fines in the case of companies, but also in relation to, of course, parking tickets, which may be large for some, but are not yet on the same scale. There are also concerns about administrative fines when it comes to parking tickets. There may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114327	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114328	Whether or not you can escape a fine depends on the position of the evidence. But I have to say, I disagree. I do not see that there is any legal certainty problem here when a company that is fined for non-subscribing to the RUT register can go to court if the company so wishes. But I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur more in principle: is it possible to understand that the Liberal Alliance's view of these things, in which the RUT register is really wanted away, is that you are the banner of foreign companies coming to Denmark and helping to pay the lowest possible wages? Is that what the Liberal Alliance wants to ensure?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114410	No. We are in favour of the view that wages are something that is agreed between employees and employers. The agreements they make must, of course, be observed. For this we have the social partners. We have a trade union movement, we have some employers, and they have to take the battles that can sometimes arise. Fortunately, it doesn't happen very often, but it happens sometimes. They have certain tools they can grasp, and we actually think it is very important, also for the justification of the trade union movement in Danish society, that it is they who take the battles, and not Christiansborg. In fact, we believe that in the long run it would undermine the trade union movement if it were the state that took over several of their tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114457	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Finally, I give the floor to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114507	I think I can make it pretty short. On the conservative side, we can trigger the tension immediately and say that we can support the proposal, at least if we have understood it correctly. However, as other rapporteurs have said, I would also like to mention that we consider it appropriate that the authorities should perhaps set out to be a little more effective and actually recover these fines. In the first place, it will probably be the most effective, given that these companies are complying with the rules, that they will actually pay the fines as well. It may also be more effective than necessarily raising them. However, we would appeal to the Minister to consider both, that is to say, that they are now being raised, but that they are also being recovered more effectively. Then there are just a few things that we would like to clarify. In relation to these attenuating circumstances of repetition, it might be a little bit interesting if the Minister might unfold what it might be about. In other words, as others have said, there may be several reasons for not registering. Maybe you don't want to, because then somebody finds out you're cheating and cheating, so it's after. It may also be that one has simply not discovered it or forgotten it. There is a difference if you are an honest and honest business. And therefore a repetition can also be just a matter of 7 years since you last operated in Denmark and that you haven't thought about it. We think it is important in this context that we use the resources to come after those who have the bad intentions and who thus undermine the opportunities for other companies and other employees to function in good, ordinary Danish conditions. So I hope we can just clarify a little that the efforts here must be targeted at those who are the bandits, and not those who made a mistake. Then I also understand the bill that it is aimed at companies. But it is the case that these fines can also be paid by Mr. and Mrs Jensen, who has laid the tiles and has not been assured that the firm that lays the tiles has registered. And there we think it might be a little violent to be subjected to a doubling of the fine, because one might not have just discovered that when one chooses one particular tile company over another one one should actually make sure that it is registered in one register. But I also understand the proposal that it is aimed at companies and if we can just clarify that this is what it is all about, then we are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114809	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then it is the Minister for Employment who ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115114817	I can once again thank a broad majority in the Danish Parliament for their support for this bill; I am very pleased about that. I would like to say to Mrs Charlotte Dyremose that we are talking about foreign companies here, not Mrs Jensen, who must have tiles laid. But I would also like to say that it is, of course, the responsibility of companies to comply with the laws and regulations that exist in Denmark, and that is why, in the case of repeated cases, we are tightening up the rules here. Fortunately, the government has from day to day put a sharp line on the agenda of combating social dumping, because it is not for the benefit of anyone it is not for the benefit of Danish employees who are thus cheated; it is not for the benefit of the many, many Danish companies who live up to the rules we have and the rules of the game we have on the Danish labour market. We have also said many times that foreign companies and employees are of course welcome in Denmark, but under the clear assumption that the Danish labour market model is respected and that Danish rules are respected. They do so in the vast majority of cases, which is why I am pleased that once again we have been able to tighten up the fight against social dumping in an agreement via the Finance Act with the SF and the Enhedslisten, in which we clarify the rules that are around the RUT register, if you do not live up to them, then we will double the fines, as many of the rapporteurs have said. So I would like to thank you for the broad support in the Danish Parliament and, of course, once again say that the committee work that is now under way, I must contribute to going smoothly and painlessly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115000	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115002	Thank you. On the occasion of Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's statement that our register here, RUT, should be very controversial, I would just like to hear whether the Minister can confirm that a judgment was handed down in December on the Belgian registration system, which is very similar to the Danish one, and that, overall, the judges' conclusion was that the Belgian system was in order and that therefore, overall, we do not have to fear for our system. There are perhaps some other problems which can then be recognized as being discussed, about the self-employed and so on, but as such there are no problems with the requirement to register foreign companies. That is the one question; I would like the Minister to confirm it. The second is: what does the Minister think about the points that have been made today, which are, of course, correct, as we have seen in our negotiations, namely that too many of the companies are being fined for incorrect registration which will not pay it? What has the Minister done with regard to how we can improve our efforts on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115116	I think I used the following expression freely quoted after memory when I explained the Belgian ruling in the Committee on European Affairs: that it could also be regarded as a blue stamp of the Danish model. So I agree with the conclusion that Mr. Finn Sørensen had here, by the way. The fines and the withdrawal of the fines have been of interest to many rapporteurs, and this is certainly of interest to the government too; it is the area of responsibility of the various ministers in which they are involved, at least in the area of justice and taxation. And here we are, of course, up against what I think everyone is aware of: that we must work to get better and clearer EU rules. I am, of course, a strong supporter of the fact that we have freedom of movement and the internal market, but I am also a strong supporter of the fact that if it is the case that you violate the rules because you take advantage of free movement in the internal market, then you must also be able to be punished for it. Otherwise there will be some unfairness, as several rapporteurs have said. That is why I am working with my colleagues to ensure that we can improve these EU relations, because that is what this is all about. Moreover, I am also working to ensure that the bilateral agreements that I am trying to make in this area with initially selected colleagues are also one of the things we are discussing. I would just like to say quite frankly that this is not something I can promise we will have done before summer, but I can at least promise that I and the government will focus on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115239	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115241	Thank you. I am also convinced that the government does, but I am also pleased with the Minister's realism, in that, if you are going to go the EU way and go the way of getting agreements with the other countries, which are of course matters here, that is not something you will be able to do before the summer. This must be said to be an understatement, for it has long been a task for the government to conclude bilateral agreements with some of the countries involved here, and this has proved extremely difficult. So my question relates to the fact that there must be some things that we can do at home, and I have, for example, a few things that we can do at home. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Eigil Andersen mentioned this in his • a number of concrete proposals that we can put into effect at home, independently of EU law. For example: After all, it does not require the approval of the European Commission to introduce chain liability. There are a number of things we can do at home, and I just want to know if the Minister has any thoughts as to whether we should not get some of those tools in play.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115344	I always think it makes sense to try to be realistic, and that is why I did not say exactly before the summer, and I did not mention anything about a summer with a certain date either. On the last part, I would perhaps like to reply in that way that I have had the pleasure only twice as Minister of Transport and now once as Minister of Employment in cooperation with, not least, Mr. Finn Sørensen to continue the work in relation to social dumping, which I also mentioned in my little speech here. And I would just like to say that I am looking forward to the next four years, which we are about to start following a parliamentary election, where I hope, as Minister for Employment, I will be able to continue the whole discussion on social dumping in close cooperation with the SF and the Enhedslisten, as it has been up to now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115432	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115435	Now it is not because I want to start a big discussion about the RUT register, I just want to say quietly that everything has a price, and so does the RUT register. It's no secret that several foreign companies, which do not necessarily do anything wrong in Denmark, comply with the country's laws, think it's very bureaucratic to have to sign up for this RUT register. It has also been debated in, for example, the United Kingdom. Poland, where people have also been very tired of it and think that it is a restriction on the free movement of workers, because it has created some unnecessary bureaucracy. Because Denmark does not want to remove it, Poland is considering introducing administrative restrictions and burdens on Danish companies wishing to be in Poland. My point is, everything has a price. This kind of bureaucracy also has a price, no matter how good the intentions of it may be, namely that there is often a counter-reaction which then goes beyond some other Danish companies and costs Danish jobs elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115539	Of course, I fully agree with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen in that everything has a price. I would also like to continue to say that if you did not have the RUT register, it would also have a price compared to unfair competition. That is why I believe that if you have a society that I want to have, which has a fair form of regulation, a fair form of fairness, and indeed, it also means that you have some obligations. If you want to take advantage of being a part of Danish society in the way that you are here and working, then there are some laws and rules that we expect you to live up to. The same applies to Danish companies wishing to operate elsewhere in the country. Now let me tell Mr. Joachim B. Olsen: For those companies which, by the way, are decent and serious and have proper paperwork, I think that bureaucracy is in order, but as the starting point was: everything has a price. It also has a price if you do not have the opportunity to check that things are going on as they should now in relation to the rules that exist in each country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115638	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115639	Well, I think we all want a society where there is proper and fair regulation. I also believe that we all want a society where regulation does not become unnecessary and where the cost of regulation does not exceed the benefits of regulation, because then there is a loss of welfare associated with it. That it is controversial to question whether this register is a good idea, I simply cannot see, because it is not something you have in other countries, and it is not so, although it may sometimes sound like this in the Danish debate that other countries have completely unregulated legislation and unregulated labour markets. As regulated as we are, it is of course strange that we have had such low economic growth and have the prospect of such low economic growth when we have such a wonderfully functioning labour market as we seem to have. But everything has a price. Regulation also has a price, but surely we should be able to agree that regulation must match the gains, and it is not certain that it is doing so here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115747	There is certainly never anything wrong with asking questions and having discussions. Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, and I think that is always a great pleasure, but I am really responding. Then you can agree or disagree with the answer, but it is not the case that I have not answered. My clear answer is that I believe that the RUT register serves a good purpose. This helps to ensure that there are rules in this labour market that are respected for the benefit and benefit of everyone, including Danish companies. Then we can discuss growth on another occasion. I simply note, as Minister for Employment, that 43 000 more people have been able to get into employment. I think that is quite a good thing to be able to mention in the debate on growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115115833	Thank you to the Minister and all the rapporteurs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting, which will resume in an hour's time. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115125959	Then we resume the sitting and the next item on the agenda is the first reading of Bill No. L 106. The debate is open. Sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130021	Thank you. After all, this bill that we are about to deal with is a consequence of a legislative proposal that we had before Christmas, in which the big dispute was about the mutual obligation of the breadwinner and the rule of it. There has then been a mistake, so that the coinage that should have happened over two years can be said to have happened here per year. 1 January 2015 and not on 1 January 2015 1 January 2016, so that the municipalities are not allowed to deduct the cash benefits from the mutual dependents agreed between a majority of parties here in the Folketing. This has been brought to our attention by the Ministry of Employment, so that error will be corrected by the bill so that the legislation will be brought into line with the political agreement reached between the Government, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party. This does not alter the position of the Left that the mutual dependent, whether married or inmate, is an excellent rule, as we have stood with the government until the adoption of the most recent Finance Act. However, we are also in favour of these agreements being translated into concrete and proper legislation, so we in the Left would like to support the correction of this, because it is in the direction of the Left that there is a mutual commitment to the breadwinner in this country. I hope that what is now under consideration has also been examined so that it will be correct this time, and it is just a call to all of us, including myself, that we are very careful to read the legislation that is coming, the draft law that comes from the Ministry, so that there is consistency between the political agreements we are making and the legislation that we are subsequently implementing. I know that this is about a year, i.e. 2015 or 2016 and, yes, you can overlook that, but it has a noticeable consequence here, and in January almost 25 million have been spent. kr., which the parties had not counted on and agreed upon. But yes, you have to correct it, and it is moving in the direction of the Left, so we would like to support the correction of this error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130315	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130321	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur of the Left has very well explained the content of the draft law and also the reason why we are here together, so all I would like to add here is that we in the Social Democrats naturally stand by the agreements we have made. And that also means that we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130343	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130354	Thank you, President. This bill comes, as has been said, because there has been a mistake in coining. It is not, of course, as I understand it, in the context of the legislative procedure, but it was where the officials had to translate and send out to the municipalities about when the entry into force is and what that is like, or what it is like, when they have finished it, after we had the third reading of the bill. It is, of course, regrettable that there is a mistake, and it is a question of whether it is because the legislation has gone too fast and that there has not been enough time to process it. I shall not be told whether that is the problem here. But that means that in January the recipients of cash benefits will be given a small gift, because they will be allowed to keep a little extra money, and it is perhaps good on Christmas and New Year that a small gift from the Danish Parliament will be given just in January. I can only congratulate people on that. It is not often that a gift of this kind comes from the Folketing, but it has come here. When we look at how it all works together, it is the case that the Danish People's Party has criticized it here from the beginning, that is, the one with the mutual dependent. It was some juks that had been made and there was no question of equality, as the government then said it should be. It also turned out that it is not really possible to administer it fiscally. That's why the government came to the conclusion that maybe it was good to have it changed again. The Danish People's Party also supported the abolition of mutual dependents, so that is fine. In this case, however, we think that this is something the government has to deal with with with its parties to the agreement, and that is why the Danish People's Party is voting yellow for this proposal because it is a boat and. We would actually have liked it to be said, when we finally decided to remove the dependent, that it is here and now from 1 January. But we also understand that the government is going to lack 300 million. kr., if the entry into force is from 1 January 2015 instead of 1 January 2016. Of course, we must also respect the fact that the government must always have the money box to vote. This is going to cost well over 22 million. kr., know it doesn't apply in January. I understand that the government has the majority to change it, and it is also acceptable, but we in the Danish People's Party choose to abstain from voting in favour of this proposal because it is a boat and, I would say, a boat. It is also because we really would have liked the government to have brazen up and said that okay, this isn't working, so let's get rid of it right away and abolish it on 1 January 2015. This was not the case, but, as I said, we are pleased that the mutual dependent will be changed. As I said, I also understood that the way it was done was one of the worst things to manage, and also, if you were going to look at whether you should now do a real equality. This is obviously not administratively possible in the tax administration, so it poses some problems in the future. However, as I said, we are abstaining from voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130732	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130735	Thank you. Thank you, however, to the rapporteur for his speech. I am not going to interfere with the Danish People's Party's vote or ask questions about it, but just to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm that the Danish People's Party itself contributed to the introduction of the mutual dependent. I think there is reason to ask the question now, when the rapporteur is doing so much to say that the Danish People's Party has always opposed it. It is surely a fact that the Danish People's Party contributed and voted in favour of the introduction of the mutual dependent, and that only one party in the Folketing, namely Enhedslisten, voted against, among other things. on the grounds that Mr. Bent Bøgsted is coming with us. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130822	I can fully confirm that the Enhedslisten was not involved in the negotiations. It's as simple as that. That is why decisions were not taken in this respect either. Then Enhedslisten has been with so many other times in connection with the Finance Act, and that is it. But right here, Enhedslisten wasn't there. Sir. Finn Sørensen would also have found out if Mr. Finn Sørensen had been involved in the negotiations, but he wasn't invited, and that's not Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen's fault, but probably the government's fault, that from the start I criticized this and said it didn't work out. The Danish People's Party got some good changes through, among others. We had the mutual dependency of young people removed. It was meant to have been included from the beginning and apply from the time they moved together. We had that set up for 25 years. We also made sure you got an activity supplement. This meant that we ultimately voted in favour. In addition, however, I was also out saying that this was not a good thing and that it was to be expected that there would be some cases, because there is no real equality, as the government said at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130928	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130930	I think that the rapporteur should use a great many words to answer a very simple question. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Danish People's Party voted in favour of the introduction of the mutual dependent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115130945	Sir. Finn Sørensen knows that the question is not as simple as Mr Sørensen. Finn Sørensen will make it. It's not that simple, sir. Finn Sørensen, and I also think it is necessary for people to have some facts and knowledge of what really happened, but that is what Mr. Finn Sørensen big on. But it is also a politician's right to choose and choose between what to tell the public. I have said that the Danish People's Party was in the agreement here. It is not a secret, and you can look up and read it at any time. But it is also no secret that we only went along because we got some improvements through. We have criticised it all the way through and also afterwards, in other words after the agreement was concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131024	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131032	Thank you for that, President. I began to parliament a little with my vice-president, if I may say so, because when I heard the speech from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I thought that the elections had been held, for I have rarely seen the same thing as the race backwards from a policy that has been entered into myself. But okay, don't take us apart. This is about the fact that a mistake has been made in the heat of the fight, and we in the Radical Left are completely on the goal of the agreements we are making. That error must, of course, be corrected even if it costs the state revenue. It is about the legal certainty of the citizens, and it is the alpha and the omega for us. I'm not gonna whip on that. It's been said. However, I would just like to say, in relation to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said about the fact that this agreement on mutual dependents could not be managed fiscally, that it is actually not right. You can do that. We can then talk about whether we could somehow harmonise so that we could get out in a uniform way in relation to the tax situation. It can always be a discussion. It should just be pointed out that there is no fiscal equality between married and single people either today, but we can manage it in fiscal terms. I just need to make this clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131210	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131212	Well, that's very good. The Danish People's Party, of course, stands by what we have been involved in, but we have also said from the outset what is the problem. Of course, I'm sorry if Mr. Nadeem Farooq did not attend the meeting in the context of the negotiations where SKAT was involved and clarified the problems of creating real equality, so that those affected by the mutual dependent were given the same advantages as spouses. I regret that the radical rapporteur was obviously not present at that meeting, because then he would have seen that there was a problem here in managing this mutual dependent should there be real equality. However, the radical rapporteur is one of those who said that there was real equality with married couples, even though there has not been, and I must of course also regret that Radicals have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131302	Now, in fact, I think that the rapporteur is making more statements against better knowledge, because I am fully aware of the problems that have been raised in fiscal terms. What I am just saying is that neither before nor after the draft law has there been a complete equality between married and unmarried people. In fact, the Danish People's Party has been aware of this, even when they concluded the agreement. That they have then been on marathon retreat several times must be up to the Danish People's Party to explain the voters. I am a little surprised that the Danish People's Party is thus trying to sneak around. I don't think that suits the party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131346	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131349	Well, it's kind of sad to hear Mr. Knox. Nadeem Farooq from the platform, because if anyone has spoken of real equality, then it is the governing parties, and Radicals is one of them. It was said that there was equality with married couples. The former minister also said that there was real equality with married couples, and so did Radicals. It is not certain that the labour market rapporteur has been out to say this, but Radicals have been out to say that it was a real equality, and there has been no equality. We have heard the SKAT say that they could not manage it if you had to have all the benefits that married couples have got. Radicals just don't want to admit that now, and that is so regrettable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131436	What the Danish People's Party is now trying to get away with sounds very enticing, but the fact is that both I, my party and the former Minister for Employment have talked about equality in the labour market, i.e. equality in the area of benefits. What we have also said at the same time is that it would be very, very complicated and very, very difficult if we were to imagine fiscal equality too, because some opposition parties, after they had entered into the agreement, were barely dry to talk about that it was not so good anyway. It's just to get the history straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131517	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131529	In the SF we are very pleased that the mutual dependent for cohabitants on cash benefits is removed. This was a very important point for the SF in the financial law negotiations. Now, as we can see, a technical problem has arisen in relation to what was agreed, and the SF supports the bill, which corrects the technical error.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131551	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen is running. Sir. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131603	Thank you. I did not expect my fellow Member from the SF to be so slim, but I did, so I would like to thank the President for the floor. Let us just say it as it is, it is a legal error, and of course all the parties who voted in favour of the bill have a responsibility for it. It is not a matter of misinformed the municipalities, it is a matter of making a mistake when we adopted this bill, and that is why we must all have red ears, because such mistakes simply must not happen. Some people may then have to have a little more red ears than others, because it is of course the one putting forward the legislative proposal which, as it were, has the main responsibility for ensuring that technology is in order. But I think that is something that the Ministry of Employment is fully aware of, and I also understand that steps have been taken to ensure that such mistakes do not happen again, and that is just the case. And then it is an agreement and an agreement must be respected, and therefore there has been no doubt in Enhedslisten's mind, however tempting it might be, that we had to correct that error. To say that it is a pity, I find it difficult, because the mistake means that up to 7,000 people, including some of those who have the most economical thing in this society, will get some more money to do good in January, and I cannot stand here crying about that. I must say that I would very much welcome the glorious by-product of the mistake that was made. I think we should also welcome the fact that we can then once again adopt it and confirm each other in at least the majority in Parliament that we are now abolishing the mutual dependent. Yeah, I'm afraid not per. 1 January 2015, which Enhedslisten very much wanted, but once again it is adopted and established with seven inch nails that per. On 1 January 2016, the mutual dependants of cohabiting cash benefits recipients have been abolished. That is a good thing, and we and all those who are watching here should remember that when we are about to go to a parliamentary election, because that parliamentary election is going to be on this side of 2016. And, of course, it is worth putting oneself behind the ear that the Left Party did not want to promise that they would not reinstate the mutual dependent. On the contrary, the rapporteur of the Left has once again said here that it is certainly not the Left's cup of tea. Nor have we received a clear commitment from the Danish People's Party that, after a possible new majority after the next elections, they would not be able to support the Left in reintroducing the mutual dependent. It is worth remembering and repeating for us who are in this Chamber and for all those who are going to a parliamentary election at some point, because this is one of the concrete examples that it does not matter what majority there is in this Parliament, and that a party such as the Enhedslisten and other good forces can also succeed in convincing a government that has done something wrong in a conciliation with the Right that it has to be changed. We're really happy about that. We always look at the bright sides, and there are at least three bright sides of this situation. One is that up to 7 000 poor people have got some more money to do good in January, and the other is that we have confirmed each other once again that the mutual dependents are gone per year. 1 January 2016 and the third is that you have had the opportunity to repeat these things about the political challenges of the forthcoming parliamentary elections, also in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115131951	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115132006	We are dealing here with a legislative proposal that corrects a mistake made by the government, and it may, of course, happen that mistakes are made. I would like to start by stressing that we are very much opposed to the abolition of the mutual dependents of cash benefits recipients. We think it is a healthy principle that people support each other, their loved ones, when they have the opportunity, instead of the neighbour being forced to do so. That is why we think it is a step in the wrong direction. According to the government itself, the abolition of the mutual allowance reduces employment by 1,000 people. It is strange, especially that the Radical Left is involved in this • Radical Left, which has been out of the question lately, that the most important thing is that jobs are raised, that there are too many people on transfer income in Denmark. So we are talking about a zigzag course by the Radicals. But now we are dealing with a legislative proposal here, which actually means that the mutual dependent will only be abolished with half force by 2015, rather than with full force. This means that at least according to the bill, 245 million will be spent. kr. less on the payment of cash benefits in 2015 than would otherwise have been done. So it's a nice day, Enhedslisten and SF are helping to ensure that fewer cash benefits are paid in 2015, and from our point of view it is going in the right direction this year, which is why we can then support this correction because, in isolation this year, it is moving in the right direction, so that the mutual dependent is only being settled with half force instead of full force. However, we are very much opposed to the removal of the mutual dependent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115132219	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115132236	This is one of those legislative proposals where you think twice about what you really have to say and focus on when you stand up here as rapporteur. There are several things that turn out to be relevant. One of the things may not have much to do with the proposal, but is more about a general trend, which I am sure there are others besides me who recognize from other ministries, so it is not just a criticism directed at this minister. But there is probably a tendency for things to go a little bit strongly sometimes. In fact, there is also a tendency to sit very, very long and wait for a minister, after which things must suddenly go very fast and everything can only go too slowly. I guess we should do something about that in here, and it could be that this was avoided. Then there's the proposal. Basically, it is a good, healthy and right principle that we take care of ourselves and our loved ones before we go into the neighbor's room and put our hat in our hands and ask the neighbor to spit in the box. I basically thought that this government had recognised the fact that I think most people in this society have discovered, namely that this whole family thing isn't necessarily a married couple, mother and father and two children, but it's quite a lot of things. But obviously it is not when it comes to taking care of your loved ones that there is obviously a difference between whether you are married or not, and you can have so many opinions that there is, and why you get married or not. But the fact is that there are very many families who live as families without being married, and it is quite natural that you also take care of your loved ones. The government also thought so when we introduced with them the mutual dependent for cohabitants. We are not doing that anymore, unfortunately, just on top, as was also mentioned before, that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has been out proclaiming that we need more reforms. I don't quite know what that is, but hopefully they'll find out in the government. Then it can be said that these are, in fact, more reforms, because this mutual dependency was abolished a little quickly. So now we are partially reintroducing it, and that may be what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior was alluding to when he thought we should have more reforms. Perhaps it would be more real to do it right and maintain that we therefore have a responsibility for our loved ones, when we now, for example, have a responsibility. has chosen to live with them, have children with them. In other words, it is paradoxical that the government, at the same time as removing the mutual dependent, should ensure that these people, who are not now going to support each other if they lack work, should certainly adopt children together. So the responsibility of adopting a young child can be taken together, but you cannot take responsibility for helping one another if you lose your job. It's pretty grotesque. However, we cannot help but support the fact that we will have this transitional regime back in 2015, at least, and we can hope that we will soon have a new government so that we can re-establish the mutual dependent, perhaps even with the Radicals, who want to see more reforms. We could be so lucky. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115132610	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115132622	There is, of course, a great reason to thank, as I could hear, a very, very broad majority in the Folketing. This is the kind of legislation that you, as a minister, but also as a system, are sorry to come to the Danish Parliament because there are not really so many explanations apart from the one and a little banal that we have made a mistake in the legislative work in the Ministry of Employment, and that has the consequences that we have to go to the Folketing and trouble the Folketing once more to correct that mistake. That is why I would just like to add that there have been some instances in which the old discussion has resumed the conclusion which virtually all the parties have reached, namely that we are helping to correct a mistake which, of course, should not happen. This shows me some of the best in the Danish people's regime, so I would like to thank the political parties sincerely for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115132718	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I understand that no one has requested referral to committee. I propose that this bill should go directly to the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115132736	The debate is open. Sir. Mads Rørvig as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115132801	Thank you. Today we are going to deal with Bill L 90. The overall aim of the proposal is to simplify the system of State adult education support, also known as the SFU scheme. The aim is to make it easier both to manage and guide the scheme. This is being done in a way that is within the scope of the SFU scheme. In the Left, we agree that there is a need for a number of simplifications of the existing rules in this area. In addition to the 2014 Finance Act, the SFU was targeted at higher education. This has meant that the number of applicants has fallen considerably. At the same time, the SFU scheme was created to replace three existing schemes. For the same reason, the SFU scheme can be relatively difficult to handle and therefore the Left is positive in adjusting the set of rules. The draft law provides that the cashiers will no longer be among the administrators of the SFU scheme. This task will be carried out in the future only by adult education centres and a number of the country's professional colleges. Since the a-boxes handle only a very small proportion of the already decreasing number of total applications, the Left considers the measure to be sensible. Similarly, limiting the number of SFU administrators will strengthen the framework to build and maintain the necessary experience and knowledge. In addition to the aforementioned amendment, the draft law provides for a simplification of the employment requirement. Thus, it is proposed that the requirement for employment be harmonised at 26 weeks with the current employer. The measure is a step in the right direction towards a more simple and easy-to-understand scheme, which the Left also supports. The draft law also provides for a simplification of the support system for SFU for primary and secondary education. This means that the support framework for the 20-24-year-olds will be for a maximum of 40 weeks, while the remaining support frameworks will cease. Today there is a jumble of different support frameworks in this area, which includes: difficulties in the digital support of the scheme. The Left very much welcomes a greater degree of clarity. Further to the efforts to simplify the SVT scheme, the requirement for the number of weekly training hours at SVT for part-time training is also harmonised. As the Left, as I have said, is concerned with creating a simpler SFU system, we can also endorse it. The draft law provides additional powers for the State Administration to take over the administration of recovery claims. This must be seen in the context of the fact that the State Administration is already handling the same task in the area of the SU, and that is also quite reasonable. Overall, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133104	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Bruus as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133109	Thank you. Fortunately, in Denmark we have very good opportunities to train ourselves. We have free and equal access to free education; yes, we even give people money to take an education. We are doing this because we believe that education is more than anything else the key to freeing people. There is no doubt that people in their working lives may need to build on education if they have nothing or to train the education they have. And that is what is at the heart of the welfare society. As a Social Democrat, I am very proud that we have succeeded in developing a welfare society where it is a main priority, including across the parties in the Folketing. Now we are simplifying the rules for adult education support, and my predecessor from the Left has already examined the main elements of the legislative proposal, so I will not do that. However, I would like to say that what has been intended here is to have more transparent rules, to simplify administration, to reduce bureaucracy and, hopefully, to make it easier to both guide and seek and obtain support. And so, perhaps not surprisingly, the Social Democratic Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133236	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133244	Thank you. This scheme, the State Adult Training Support, was established in 2000 as a collection of previous schemes. A year ago, the scheme was changed to focus on education for those with the lowest level of education. There are a number of provisions in the system that come back from the old arrangements from before 2000. It makes no sense to maintain such provisions; on the contrary, we need to target and seek to simplify systems; a simplification which benefits both employers and employees who also want training; a simplification which benefits the administrative systems responsible for managing the system. When I look at the hearings and the Minister's comments, there is one small thing that I fall over. Dansk Arbejdsforening og Dansk Industri calls for a solution where application for SFU can be integrated into a digital system that can be accessed from continuing education.dk. What does the Minister say about that? Well, the Minister notes that it is immediately considered that such integration is already not a real possibility because of costs. The current administrative system, the SFU system, is old, complicated and not suitable for an integration solution in continuing education.dk, and the cost of developing a new system and integration in continuing education.dk will hardly be justified in relation to the number of SFU applications. I fully agree that it can be both expensive and inappropriate to continue working on old systems. I did so that I allowed myself to go in and look at the system as it looks today, and that was an experience. It was obviously old. In many situations today, we see that we are making great demands on digitalisation. Pr. On 1 November, all citizens would have a digital mailbox to communicate digitally with the public. Here you run into a system where you get a guide on how to print, and a guide on how to fill in the hand, and some addresses where you can drive to deliver these applications after you have just been to your own educational institution to get them to fill in some fields on this application. I really think that is the limit to the embarrassment. We make demands on citizens about all things in the world, and we ourselves have systems which, indeed, one would almost think were lies. So the starting point for simplifying and improving is that we are fully involved in the Danish People's Party. In terms of committee work, we really want to have a dialogue on how to ensure that this system is properly digital. The other doesn't make sense. And one thing is that we cannot do it right now, but I hope that the Minister has a plan for what will happen when we move forward a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133530	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Liv Holm Andersen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133535	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we can also support this draft law on the SVT scheme, which we see as part of a general desire to simplify rules where possible. It is, of course, not only because we welcome the simplifications of the rules contained in this proposal, but also because we think that the elements of the proposal will make this scheme work better for the target group, which will have some better tools to focus on and will see that the administration of the scheme is reduced. That is why it is a good proposal that we can, of course, support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133618	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133624	I can also tell you right away that the SF is backing this proposal. We do this, for example, because continuing training and adult education help to qualify our workforce. And that is precisely what we have a shared responsibility for, namely that the workforce in Denmark is well qualified and adaptable and can carry out the tasks that come. For us in the SF, it makes very good sense to ease the administrative burden of the State's adult education support precisely so that resources are used most sensibly. What makes sense here is that the process from a person wishing to apply for SFU until the aid is received must be as simple and effective as possible without unnecessary administrative obstacles. It is important for SF that more adults get easier training, either as further training or as further training. The draft law provides for the harmonization of minimum training hours for a person who can apply for adult training support. We support the simplification of the administrative rules, but we also want to pay more attention in the future to the fact that the minimum requirement for the three weekly teaching hours is also a guarantee that there is enough quality in the education so that the adult who is training really also acquires the required skills. So we are in favour of the proposal because we support the introduction of a clearer administration of adult education support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Rosa Lund as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133810	Thank you. I will not add so many more words to this debate, but just say that the Enhedslisten supports the bill because it simplifies the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133829	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Merete Riisager as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115133834	Thank you. Then I will follow up by saying that we in the Liberal Alliance also support L 90, which deals with simplifying the system of State adult education support. We in the Liberal Alliance are very concerned about simplifying the complexity of public systems. It is important that there is both a transparent structure for students and, of course, also a structure which uses resources in the best possible way. And we would like to see a much wider and more far-reaching process in the future to ensure that the people who work in these structures on a day-to-day basis have the opportunity to offer proposals for simplification on an ongoing basis. It can be said that they can already be put in place today, yes, yes, but it should be put in place so that, as a public servant, you have the expectation that you will be listened to when you come up with a proposal for simplification. Everyone who has worked in different places in the public sector, including in the education sector, knows very well that there are places where there are things that are outdated, things that are not working as intended anymore, and by doing what has previously been called a confidence reform, in other words simply inviting the public sector to constantly make proposals for efficiency, will give a completely new and different opportunity to optimise the public sector in the future. But we also accept the small things, and we therefore support L 90. We have only one concern, namely about special education, particularly for the dyslexia, which is being reduced from, as I understand it, 58 weeks to 40 weeks. It is one such thing that we will just keep an eye on, because of course it is a group which can already be particularly exposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134039	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Stig Møller as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134044	Well, now I should break the good mood by saying that some people must oppose, but we are not doing so either, because we are actually very much in favour of simplifications. We have always been, and this is a simplification. It also alters the operation of the unemployment funds, which is being changed to make it more administratively effective, and we are also in favour of this: simplifications and greater efficiency. I also think it is good to say that there must be a limit to the number of weekly hours of education available for part-time training and then still count on it to be an education. I think we think there are improvements in it, but I would like to say, like the Liberal Alliance, that we must keep an eye on the dyslexic and the particularly thoughtful teaching, because it is not just like all other teachings, and there may be a need for several hours. But we can look at that, and the Minister can think about it before making announcements. All in all, however, we are in favour of simplification and we are in favour of adult education. It is very, very important that we have the opportunities for adult education, in terms of employment, but also in terms of general qualification and skills. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134151	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134155	Thank you for your support. The Conservative rapporteur just cheated me by saying that someone had to be against, but also thank you for the support from there. The aim, as several rapporteurs have already explained, is to simplify the SFU scheme so that the administration of the scheme and, above all, the guidance of the trainees, because that is what is important here, is made easier. The website about SFU will be relaunched during 2015 • It is also a response to the excellent comments and questions from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and then it will also be easier for the citizens of the target group to inform themselves about their options; I heard the call for this to happen as well. It is, of course, always a priority for the government to simplify rules and so on, but it is particularly important here. The SFU Act is particularly important because it provides a financial basis for the participation of adults in training in employment, irrespective of the level at which they wish to train. This is also the opportunity to resume education, to complete education or, in some cases, to start almost all over again, even if, for a number of years, you have been completely out of the education system. So thank you for the positive bars. Perhaps I could also comment here on a question from the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, because it is also quite fair to pay attention to that part of the special education. It is just to say that the reason why it is harmonised is that in practice there are simply no educational seekers who take advantage of the right to the 58 weeks under the conditions mentioned here, but also to say that we will of course follow it and will follow it up after 3 years and look specifically at whether anyone has exhausted the framework anyway and wants it. So we're aware of that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134417	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134431	The debate is open. Sir. Esben Lunde Larsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134445	Today we are dealing with L 91, the aim of which is to increase the quality and transparency of the overall offer of higher education. The draft law provides that the higher education institutions of the Ministry of Education and Research may combine existing courses without having to apply for the prequalification of the new training. Today, the situation is that at Danish higher education institutions there are a number of courses aimed at the same labour market, and this is a challenge in terms of transparency for future students and employers, but also in relation to the courses offered. The draft law we are discussing today will help to remove barriers to the pooling of education and training, thereby ensuring much greater transparency in education and training than is the case today. At the same time, the draft law could help to debureaucratize the currently heavy pre-qualification process, which will all the other things being equal lead to considerable administrative relief for higher education institutions wishing to combine existing courses. The Left supports the objective of increasing flexibility and reducing the total number of training courses and increasing transparency for applicants and buyers, which is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134557	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Bruus as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134603	Thank you. As my predecessor on the platform said, we are today debating draft law L 91 on the accreditation of higher education. We would like to make life easier for higher education, and we would also like to see educational institutions make life easier for students who have to choose an education. Today, depending on how it is done, there are almost 1 500 higher education courses for young people to choose from, and it is therefore up to the educational institutions to assess how many courses there will be. However, we must make it easy and flexible for them to ensure that students acquire the skills required, and at the same time it must be transparent for students when choosing an education. That is why we have now proposed amending the accreditation law so that when two courses are combined, the new training that comes out of it should not be pre-qualified. The bill is a follow-up to the government's growth package, and all parties have undertaken to work for a sustainable number of training courses. The draft law therefore says that when two courses are combined together, the new training that comes out of it should not be regarded as a completely new training. The new training has not emerged out of the blue, but out of two existing professional environments, which is why we do not think it is necessary to pre-qualify the new training. The draft law here will, of course, first and foremost be relevant to the universities, as the professional academies and bachelor degree programmes are regulated by a national decree. It is still possible for them to combine education, but this requires national coordination. Then there has been a number of consultation responses to the bill and there has been broad support for the exercise we are now going through. However, the Danish Students' Joint Council expresses concern that the educational institutions will now use this as a pressure to combine more education, and there I think it is important to say that it is the educational institutions themselves that decide which courses are to be combined. This law doesn't change that. In other words, it is just an offer to the educational institutions that creates more flexibility and relieves administrative burdens. Accreditation is, of course, in its essence about ensuring that the training that is available is of sufficient quality and, as such, is also well run. We do not want there to be excessive detailed management of training programmes, and we do not want to go back to deciding how many pencils to buy. With this bill, we're gonna lighten the administrative burden. We have confidence in the public educational institutions, which is why we can also say that we are now putting a little more responsibility on them. And, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134858	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115134903	This bill is an expiry of the previously adopted law on accreditation, where we just see the first institutional accreditations being implemented. We also see the first institutions facing challenges in passing. I'd say that's good. This should require a little on your toes to get through accreditation. I also hope and believe that accreditation is becoming the tool for developing the quality of educational establishments, as I see it as, and thus also a positive management tool at all levels, a tool that ensures the system of quality work, which makes sure that you always do what you have decided and that you simply stick to which path you are going. This is ultimately the way to simpler bureaucracy, because the system helps you keep an eye on things and stick to plans and strategies. This bill provides for a single simplification of the system so that it will be possible to combine training more closely without the prior qualification of the combined training. That's quite fine. This increases the ability of the institutions to trim the supply of training. That is why the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135015	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Liv Holm Andersen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135020	Thank you. This bill is another step towards the debureaucratisation of the higher education system. It is also a legislative proposal that brings us a little closer to the goal of increased transparency for future students. After all, this transparency called for by the government in connection with the last growth package, and we have also dealt with concrete initiatives in this Chamber. This draft law, you might say, follows on from those initiatives, because it aims to make it a little easier for educational institutions to ensure precisely that transparency. With this bill, the educational institutions, as previous rapporteurs have also explained, will have the opportunity to combine existing training without having to apply for pre-qualification for a new training, which then arises, so that they can, so to speak, skip a bureaucratic link. After all, it provides a shorter and more flexible process which makes it easier for educational institutions to work to ensure quality and transparency on their many educational provision. Of course we support this in the Radical Left, and we can therefore also support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135139	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135145	As the previous rapporteurs have explained, this proposal is about simplification, and for the SF, as for the rest of the speakers, it is important to look at whether there is real simplification and that there will be transparency for students, and then what is perhaps not so much mentioned, namely that the self-determination of educational institutions is also guaranteed. So we have always said on the part of the SF that we would very much like to see what could simplify, what could make it more transparent for students and what would guarantee the autonomy of education institutions, and that is also what we believe this bill is up to. What is important, of course, is that the training institutions, by their own self-determination, know the local opportunities that regional conditions can help to adjust so that it makes sense to maintain an education. What is also important is, of course, that we ensure that, for example. the smaller language courses can continue to be in development. And who's best at looking at it? This is the case at the individual educational establishments. We would very much like to continue in the SF to have an ongoing discussion on the accreditation of higher education, and I also hope that, as rapporteurs in this area, we will continue to discuss how to optimise education, transparency and self-determination precisely by being able to give a little more freedom to handle this merger ourselves. So we are setting up a close dialogue, and here I would also like to mention the training contracts, which are, of course, an excellent tool between the ministry and educational institutions, and that we also have to follow them up. Some kind of evaluation could enable us to be close to ensuring the development that needs to be achieved. So, yes, we're in. We would also like that to be the reason why we can discuss increased quality, discuss content, and we do so, among other things. By having a dialogue with the educational institutions, and this is where self-determination will be central. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135402	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Rosa Lund as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135408	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we are immediately positive about this bill, but we share Danske Students Common Council's concern that the simplification of the rules and the removal of pre-qualification will mean that the institutions will experience political pressure to pool the smaller courses in the light of the whole debate that we have also had in this Chamber, and which the Minister has led, on the dimensioning of higher education. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to comment on the reply from the Danish Students' Joint Council and I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can guarantee that, as a result of this bill, there will be no further pressure on the educational institutions to combine the small courses. We shall also put the question in writing. We are immediately positive, but, of course, depending on the Minister's reply, we must see whether we can vote in favour of the bill in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135523	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Margrethe Riisager as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135528	We are now dealing with L 91, which the Liberal Alliance can also support, as it is a simplification proposal that abolishes the requirement for the prequalification of new training by merging. It makes really good sense. We hope there will be more of this kind of bill. We would like to see what I said earlier as a process that is running continuously. In fact, it should never stop. We tend to want to make a lot of legislation here at Christiansborg, we are extremely industrious, and we have industrious officials, and that also means that we have to be just as diligent to clean up after us. So praise from here, and although it may be a small change, it means every time we simplify from in here that there are some people sitting on the other end who can spend their time and their work on something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135622	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Stig Møller as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135626	We support this too. We already have our shares in the agreement made between the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten and us in connection with the growth package from 2014. It is a result of this, and it is reasonable to ensure that some narrow training courses can be combined and given more weight. We have, in the comments on the draft law, almost 1 500 training provision, and there is the question of whether we can provide 1 500 qualified training provision. I guess it's hard. That is why it is very important that there is professional sustainability, and there may be, by making this merger, and then it should not be too difficult to get that merger together. So it is very important that quality is maintained, but it is also important that we have a wider scope in what is being worked on. So we support it because we will probably have some mergers so that the very narrow education can survive because they come together with another education. Otherwise, narrow education would probably disappear. The narrowest would disappear, and then there would be no study at all in Denmark. The narrow areas can still be maintained by being combined with some other related narrow areas, thereby gaining the breadth and gravity that makes it possible both to get qualified teachers and to get an education to the other end, which can be used wider than the very narrowest. I am not opposed to narrow education, all research ends up being narrow, all scientific progress is made by people who are very narrowly oriented, but we cannot all be an Einstein, and we must therefore also be used wider. I therefore believe that what has been proposed as a follow-up to the growth package is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135813	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115135830	Thank you and thank you for your excellent remarks. I actually feel completely covered up all around. This is probably an area where we are quite, quite agreeable. Since 2007, there have been more than 300 new higher education and education provision, so today we have almost 1,500 education provision in the ordinary higher education system. It is good that there will be new training courses, and that will continue to be the case. That is precisely why it is also important that we make demands and look at whether the higher education institutions insist on increasing the quality and transparency of the overall provision of higher education. That is what we did with the adoption of the growth package. There we committed ourselves to ensuring that the educational institutions have the best opportunities to meet the requirements of, among other things, training institutions. to have the freedom to adapt their overall supply of training. That is precisely what we are now ensuring. With this bill, the higher education institutions of the Ministry of Education and Research will thus be able to combine existing courses without having to apply for the prequalification of an education resulting from a merger. It is an actual and real debureaucratisation of the process. If the pooling of training results in an extended purpose and vocational orientation for the combined education and training, it is, of course, still a condition that enlargement does not have significant negative consequences for the labour market or the recruitment basis for existing and related education and training. The proposal allows institutions to take a critical look at their own education and, as the Conservative rapporteur also pointed out, to create new and strong links in the education system. At the same time, the institutions' ability to respond to new needs in the labour market is improved by being able to pool without having a longer bureaucratic process. Finally, and not least for students, the proposal will also help to increase the transparency of the overall higher education system and to limit or at least not further increase the total number of courses. So increased transparency will benefit both the young people who are about to have to choose higher education, the students who are already in the courses, and, of course, the labour market and the employers, whether public or private, who ultimately have to hire graduates and future graduates. So I look forward to the further examination of the bill and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115140149	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115140206	The debate is open. This is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115140223	Thank you, sir. President. The bill, L 94, follows on from Nature Plan Denmark, which the government presented here at the end of the year in 2014. This bill is a mixture of a little bit of each. In the proposal, the Government proposes the establishment of Green Denmark Cards, a ban on fertilising and spraying on § 3 protected areas and the introduction of an indicative level of fines for infringement of the Nature Conservation Act, as well as a stricter indicative level of fines for infringement of Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act. I might as well make it clear from the outset that the Left cannot support this bill. With the bill, the government chooses among other things. to take thousands of hectares of good agricultural land out of normal operation, and thus the bill will help create unfair conditions for agriculture and perhaps push a load that is otherwise already in danger of falling. In my view, and therefore in the view of the Left, it is absolutely grotesque that the Minister for the Environment, with this bill and also in particular. A consultation which I had convened with the Minister in November confirms that the growth agreement reached in the spring, in which we in the Left, among other things. was helping to get rid of half the peripheral areas, now only offset in this bill. Or to put it another way: with the growth agreement, the government may have made a fool of agriculture, at least things are now being set off. I think it is wrong that, in this way, it can be said at a few months' intervals that agriculture will benefit from the growth agreement, but that it is now okay in this draft law to place additional financial burdens on agriculture. The Minister for the Environment, and it is written in the bill, believes that it will cost about 47 million. kr. This proposal will only affect about 10,000 farms per year for agriculture. But here I must also point out to the Minister that there are other crucial negative aspects of this matter which may not be included in this draft law. So I would urge the Minister to take a trip to the rural areas and see and hear how this bill is going to affect things in reality. Because when people like me both live and move around these parts of the country, yes, I have to say that for me it is logic for guinea fowl that this bill will have major negative consequences for the pilots affected. Let me give you an example from real life. On Monday I visited the farmer Palle Dahlmann, who lives near Skærbæk. Palle is a young start-up farmer on the daddy farm, and he's getting really hard hit by this bill. Palle Dahlmann has a farm of 123 ha and he has a herd of 110 black-broked dairy cows. A very large part of his land is now designated as not being to be fertilised or sprayed forward. Until now, the land has been set aside in a perfectly normal way for the production of fodder for his livestock. During all years, both straw manure and manure have been used, and the land is part of the approved harmony area of the property. With this bill, a lot of these acres can now suddenly be § 3 soil and could no longer be used as an area of harmony. The Hectares will no longer be able to produce feed in the same way for Palle's cows, as fertilization is essential for Palle to produce feed of such quality that it can also be used for feeding cows. So Palle gets a loss in several different ways. Firstly, the value of the soil falls markedly. This means that his credit rating is reduced, and it can therefore be difficult to obtain funding for example. also modernisation of Palle's farm. Secondly, his interest payment will increase as the banks set interest rates according to the soundness of customers. And thirdly, Palle will now have to buy or rent more land to keep his cows. The example of Palle here sums up quite well some of the challenges that the Minister may not have expected into this bill. It is clear that the value of the land which must not be fertilised in the future will fall. This can be seen in many examples, and several have said that it is even thought that the value will fall by DKK 100,000. per ha. Then it is just that I ask the Minister how the Minister will think that this affects the farmer when he is going to go to the bank and have renewed the bank credit, or for that matter when he needs to borrow a new loan from the credit association. I can add two and two together and figure out that when the land value is suddenly affected in this way, it will have a direct impact on the loan possibilities. It is therefore also quite wrong that this issue should not be taken into account in the financial information contained in the legislative proposal. Another serious consequence that the Minister has forgotten is that a great many farmers will be forced to find new supplementary land in order to continue to run their farms and to ensure enough feed for their cattle. This is also true, for example. in Palle's situation. And then I just ask: how will the extra transport to fetch feed around the country affect the environment? I would like to make it quite clear that the Left thinks it is positive that something is being done for our nature, but we need to see things in a broader perspective and in the right order. It is therefore more than just angling and picnic. Of course, we have to take care of our nature, and agriculture is actually doing a huge amount of work here in many, many contexts. In fact, the farmer often acts as a good natural care provider, and we just must not demand it unfairly. We must not demand that Danish farmers import feed when they can make it themselves. We must not demand that an industry such as agriculture be hit so hard that, for that reason, more farmers will have to turn the key. This will also have a negative impact on all the following industries, such as: The craftsman, the blacksmith, the vet and, ultimately, the financial sector, which is ultimately affected by these things, and that is why we are all affected. Although the Minister thinks that Nature Plan Denmark is historic, I must ask myself whether it is now also the right nature that we get out of it. I have a lot of questions. One of the questions which the Minister may perhaps be able to answer in this Chamber today is whether it is the seriousness of the Minister when she answers my question No. 135 writes that the designation of Green Denmark Card, which this bill sets in motion, will not have any effect on the farmer. I look forward to getting answers to my questions and must stress once again that the Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141034	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141037	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen as the rapporteur of the Left. I understand that the Left is committed to spending its speaking time on agriculture. Agriculture is in a serious situation. At least the governing parties have realised that. The Left says here in the rapporteur's speech that we would also like to do something for nature. So, the government has set up the Nature and Agriculture Commission, and what is happening now with this bill is listening to the Commission's recommendations, in terms of what can be done for nature. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it the case that the Left in itself thinks that Green Denmark Card is a good idea and that the Left can actually support that part of the bill here today? I know that it is linked to other things, but this is essential, because now Mrs Anni Matthiesen has talked about the nature protection parts as the primary thing. That is why I would like to know what the position of the Left is quite specific to Green Denmark Card.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141137	I would say that when I started reading this bill, I actually thought that with the green Danish map, it sounded really sensible. There are many good things in relation to the green Danish map, but I must also say that I think there are clearly some issues, some questions which are not answered in the legislative proposal itself. So how are these things actually going to work in practice, including in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141202	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141206	[Sound emission]... all that is in relation to Green Denmark Card is voluntary. And a great deal of competence has been added to the municipalities. The next question I would like to put to the rapporteur of the Left concerns the third part of the legislative proposal, which deals with infringements of the law, i.e. sanctions. The rapporteur has not mentioned this either. Does the Left think that it is right for us to tighten up the demands and sanctions when, for example, the Nature Conservation Act or the Planning Act is violated? And here I would just like to refer to what is also apparent from the draft law that what we would like to see in the field of nature protection is that we want to harmonise sanctions so that they reach the level of the environmental law. And here I should just like to make it clear that those sanctions have been used by the Left in the past. So will the Left support the part of the bill dealing with offences?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141300	As rapporteur, I have looked at this bill together, and I can say that there is a waiting time, and that is what awaits the Minister for a sea of outstanding questions. The Minister will, of course, be sent them here after the first reading. This also applies to the increase in fines. So I would say that it is profoundly dependent on how the Minister responds to the questions I will then ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141325	Mr President, there is another brief comment. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141328	Mrs Anni Matthiesen is right, of course, that not long ago the government made an agreement with the Left, which meant that farmers were given better economic conditions and that nature and the environment were given worse conditions. Mrs Anni Matthiesen is right about that. She's also right that this is going in the opposite direction. But I would like to hear: does the Left have any proposals at all on how to benefit the environment without it also being a financial gain for farmers?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141358	I have to say that I think there are very, very many examples and also good examples of how farmers are actually good naturekeepers. I can tell you, sir. Per Clausen, that one of the farmers I visited on Monday is actually one of the really good naturekeepers around Ballummarsken. He said that he had actually chosen to minimize the spraying of his fields for the same reason. The problem is, as he says, that he is now being punished, because now he must do nothing more. That means he can't act as a natural care provider. As he himself said, he was worried about his fields, for they will gradually grow into reeds and eels. I have to say that I think it is a misunderstanding if you have the starting point, as Mr. Per Clausen may have, and it is said that farmers do not also care for nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141449	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141452	I regret that I have expressed myself unclearly. I did not say anything about the role of farmers as natural carers. I put a question to the Left, which was whether the Left has a single proposal which could lead to better nature and environment in Denmark and which should not also have the side effect that it benefits the farmers' economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141512	I do not know whether I should understand the question in that it is not possible to do both. I think that it is easy to look after nature and the environment and that it can also benefit the agricultural economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141526	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115141545	Thank you, President. I'm really happy to climb Parliament's platform here today. I have been standing here many times in the past debating exactly the issues that this bill contains and is about today. I have discussed the diversity of species, the conditions of animals and plants in Denmark, the protected areas of the Nature Conservation Act, § 3 areas. Did we know where they were? Were they taken care of by the people who owned them? We have discussed all the animals and plants on the red list, i.e. plants and animals threatened in Denmark, plants and animals, which we have committed ourselves to preserving and protecting, according to both agreements in the European Union and in the United Nations. I have also stood here on the platform and discussed how to find the balance where nature can get better, while those who rule on the vast majority of our land in Denmark, agriculture, could also have better conditions of production in general. Many times in this discussion we have been appallingly nervous; there has been a serious mood because the state of things has not been good. These amendments to the Planning Act and the Nature Conservation Act are significant and very significant steps in the right direction from the point of view of social democracy. We in Denmark need much more good nature, and we need much more coherent nature in Denmark. It's a really, really big challenge. It is a real, really great responsibility to bear politically that we do not just allow the zeal for growth and production and wealth in our country to go beyond the vulnerability of nature and the environment. There are three elements to this bill, which is the overall one. The first is a Green Denmark Card to ensure a focused and strategic planning of more nature in Denmark. Here it is planned that until 2017 when the next municipal planning review is to be carried out, the municipalities will look at the areas that make up their municipality, looking at which areas are nature-protected, which areas can, with sense and voluntaryness, be connected up to the already significant nature in the longer term. It's a really good instrument. The next element of the bill is what concerns the Nature Conservation Act, i.e. the section 3 areas which are mostly nature in Denmark. There are very strict requirements for large parts of it, and here there are now stricter requirements in relation to the areas made up of the fresh meadows and the beaches, where there is now a ban on fertilising and spraying the areas that will in future be converted or in organic farming. The latter part of the ecology is due to the fact that the government Social Democrats think that organic production is a good consideration to take into account the very, very large parts of the Danish area which are in intensive farming. The organic farming method is more gentle for plants and animals and therefore this exception. The third element is that when the law is violated, we will correct the penalty and penalty part. There are very, very small fines today if you deliberately or not violate the law. Here we think it is quite right to harmonise the level so that infringements of the Nature Conservation Act are brought up to the level of infringements of environmental legislation. These are the three main elements. Then there is all the discussion about whether this affects the farming potential in a negative way or is relatively neutral. Here we need to think about the perspective and the whole of it that the Nature and Agriculture Commission has made proposals and recommendations for both better balance in agricultural production, but now also for what we should do to improve nature in relation to plants and animals. That's what's happening. Agriculture has been listened to in the Nature and Agriculture Commission and, as the previous rapporteur mentioned, also in the questions to the rapporteur of the Left, agriculture has been taken into account. I have to say that this is a very good bill and that the changes proposed here are part of the government's Nature Plan Denmark, which is also called "Our common nature." I very much hope, as the Socialist rapporteur on this subject, that this will be a great pleasure for biodiversity, the diversity of Danish nature, for the future, and for the people who will be part of it far into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142130	There are a few brief comments. It's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142132	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen himself mentioned in his speech that it is important to do things in the right order. This is also one of the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, that the bill here remembers to do things in the right order?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142200	Yes, I do, in fact, because the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission have been acted upon in relation to what we can do for agriculture. I acknowledge, and I have already said this here in Parliament today, that Danish agriculture is in a difficult situation. I would like to correct my statement: Danish agriculture is in an extremely difficult situation. But I would also like to say that nature and diversity are also very, very bad, and we cannot allow ourselves as a rich welfare society just to skate over the conditions of nature. By this I mean that we have found the balancing point and that we are doing things in the right order. It's not a one-or-one that the Left would like. It's a boat-and-a-boat. It is both to take account of agriculture. We have done so, and it is also to take account of nature, and we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142301	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142302	Thank you. What the Left really wants is to get the most for the money. I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that there is a great deal of overgrown nature, which is actually also crying out for care. Does the rapporteur not think that it could be a better way of spending this money if we started using the money, where there is already a great deal of overgrown nature that actually needs help?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142338	But this is not either-or, I would say to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. This is both-and. Sir. Per Clausen asked the former rapporteur of the Left what the Left is proposing, without the need for more money for agriculture. Mrs Anni Matthiesen once again gives me the answer, namely that it is always a question of the Left wanting to channel money to the industry. It is also necessary that some people advocate nature. The government is responsible and does both. We have made one agreement, that is, the one that will guarantee conditions in agriculture, together with the Left. The part that will in future ensure the conditions for nature, we could not do with the Left. For example, we do that with the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142429	Sir. Henrik Høegh for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142432	Thank you. I cannot help commenting on the latter, as Flemming Møller Mortensen says, because that shows the position very clearly. It is true that in April a broad settlement was reached in the Folketing on growth in the food industry, and it had a value at least in the peripheral area of 40-50 million. kr. And it has been stated that it is expected to fit in fairly with what it now costs to include the cultivation and fertilization rights in section 3 areas. So, yes, it goes straight up, and then there was no growth in jobs out of that skin. But my real question is: I understand that Flemming Møller Mortensen is worried about ancient memories. We all are. Is the rapporteur aware of how many people were convicted last year of violating this protection around ancient memories?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142519	Now I am chairman of the Committee on Culture and should have been an archaeologist, so I would say that this is one of the areas that I am very aware of, but I cannot mention a figure here. But I would like to say to Mr. Henrik Høegh, that we don't just have to do one part. Well, the ancient memories I haven't brought into it. I have brought in the care of nature-protected areas, bright, open areas and other things. We're gonna have to do everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142547	Sir. Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142548	It was simply because the rapporteur asked the rapporteur of the Left about it, but I can tell you that it was three, and that is one of the questions that the Minister has answered here in connection with the legislative proposal. Whether that is the reason why you multiply the fines eight or ten times, you can assess. My second question is about the green Danish map. If it can be done locally in the Nature Council, there may well be an idea in it and perhaps something that can be worked on, but it's the municipality that has to draw these maps. At the same time, can we agree that they will not be a limitation for agriculture next time you have to have an EIA or an animal approval or have your animal approval renewed? Then there is the sign on the municipality's local plan: Here we must have nature when we can make a voluntary agreement. Will these local plans be completely free from obstacles to the development of livestock farming? Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142645	Actually, I'd like to sign with Mr. Knox. Henrik Høegh for bringing up the subject of the green Danish map again, because I am very interested in knowing whether the Left could have an interest in us making exactly that part of the bill together, because it is so strategic and so long-term a bill. For Mr. Henrik Høegh may know about anyone in this Chamber at the moment that we have been blown on the back of the European Union and on the part of the United Nations in terms of meeting the biodiversity targets, which we have not done at all. And that's why it's important that we focus on these parts. I would just like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Henrik Høegh's first question about the burial mounds. If we had now talked about the ploughing of § 3 soil instead of burial mounds, I think we would come forward with a very, very large number of offences.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142739	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115142749	Thank you. I think that sometimes, when you hear these debates on the environment and on agriculture, it is a little fun to be someone like me who comes from an urban area. Although I live in the countryside, I am the daughter of an old woodsman, but I have never been a farmer. Nevertheless, when we are discussing these things, I think that we should use our common sense. For the same reason, then, we in the Danish People's Party reject the proposal. It can be quite excellent to make a green Danish map. That sounds nice. We all like nature, we like to be out in it, we want biodiversity, we want as many plants and animals as possible, and everyone needs to be well. That's really nice. But when you go in and look at the proposal, you see that the way to achieve it is by, among other things, the way to achieve it. to prohibit the fertilization of some § 3 areas, and at least I have received a lot of emails from farmers who have fertilised in these areas and have had cattle grazing in these areas for more than 100 years. But all of a sudden it is designated as § 3 area, and for the same reason they must no longer fertilize unless you are an ecologist. In fact, I think it is important to emphasise this here, namely that organic farmers with § 3 areas should be allowed to fertilise. I was somewhat surprised because I actually thought that when you were an organic farmer, you didn't do anything like that at all. I have then found out that I was very wrong, and that is why I think I will say it too, because there are many other city dwellers than me who have definitely misunderstood that. It has become the case today that when we discuss agriculture, we discuss traditional farming. Oh, my God, these are the bad guys. And then we discuss organic farming, and oh, how good are the good. This is nonsense, because we really ought to use common sense. Of course, we need so little manure and bad chemicals etc. as possible everywhere. As little as possible. But we cannot put society at a total standstill and say that now it is simply forbidden, and do not care that there may be 50 or 100 farmers who have to leave home, because that is what can be the result of this. At least that is what we hear from the organisations. Then there are some who are going to leave house and home because of this ban on fertilization, and I think that is simply terrible. You are not even so decent as a state that you say: we know that the consequence is, so now we are expropriating. No, you don't. You just make it so that you say it's a purpose, a voluntary Danish map, etc. etc. So that's a problem. I think that the consequences should be taken into account. If the government really wants to make a green Danish map and say that it has to be green, we must do nothing there, then I think we should take the consequence. I think that is missing. When we talk about sanctions, I would say that sanctions must be tightened. You might think that's good or bad. Of course, if you plow up these § 3 areas, or if you throw waste into the wild. It's also a mess to say what it is. Then the sanctions can be tightened. There is a place where I think that sometimes something is missing I would say that in the Danish People's Party we are really in favour of the punishment being tightened up if people commit something illegal. But we see many places in rest places and in forests etc. that waste is being dumped. It is very rare, I think, that those who have done are actually being caught. So the fact that the amount of the fine is raised for it doesn't matter at all. Of course, you can easily catch some people plowing up section 3 areas, because there you can probably quickly find out who it is and there the fines can of course be set up. But it might be nice with these controls on agriculture that instead of just coming and checking and hitting people in the head you might also guide and say: "Try to hear that, you can't actually do that, in the future you have to do that and that. I think farmers would be happy about that too, and that would be a good thing. I don't know how much more to say about it. Basically, I think that when we talk about the environment, it has sometimes become a sacred cow in some way that is above everything else. Sometimes you forget your common sense. It is not that we in the Danish People's Party think that green is not good, but that as long as you say green and sustainable in a sentence, everything is good, and I do not necessarily think it is that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143236	Thank you, there is one with a brief comment. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143241	Thank you. It was the rapporteur's speech that told us what the Danish People's Party thinks is common sense when you talk about the protection of animals and then it was no longer. I would like to ask a question: is it not true, I would ask Mrs Pia Adelsteen, that the section 3 areas covered by the bill have been § 3 areas for a very long time? There are no new § 3 areas covered by the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143314	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143317	Yes, it is true, but at the same time it is also true that some of the § 3 areas that have been designated since they began to do this have been fertilised for more than 100 years and farmers have had cattle out there and yet they have been designated as special natural areas. It must then have something to do with manure and agriculture, I can figure out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143338	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143340	If that is what the Danish People's Party believes is to put society at a standstill, i.e. that fresh meadows and beaches, if they are grown conventionally, should not be sprayed and fertilised, then I think our society is facing many more dangers in the present than I am aware of if so little is needed to put society at a standstill. The rapporteur says that we must all be very well. I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party's Environment Rapporteur thinks that nature, plants and animal species in Denmark are well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143423	That's a difficult question. I think that regardless of whether it's plants, animal species, environment or people or profession, everything can always get better. That is, of course, another way of answering the question. What I think is remarkable is that when we talk about section 3 natural areas, it is quite clear that the government and the Socialists think that if it is conventional agriculture, you should not fertilise on them, but if it is organic farming, it is quite okay. There's just someone with more professional knowledge than a city person like me who has to explain to me what the smart thing is. Because I just can't understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143506	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall proceed to the next rapporteur, Mrs Lone Loklindt, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115143516	It is a pleasure to be here today, because today we are discussing the bill that will make Nature Plan Denmark, presented by the government in the autumn, a reality. After all, there are no Danes who do not have a relationship with our nature; everyone needs to get into nature; everyone wants the Danish nature not to be in decline, but the question is what it must cost, what it really means by regulation. There is great value, both for outdoorsmen, for athletes, for biologists, when you can get out into nature. But we also know that Danish nature is under pressure because we are actually quite a small country. Quite rightly, we have a lot covered by city, and a lot covered by intensive agriculture, and relatively little, which is nature and which is allowed to behave as nature. One of the things that makes nature under pressure is that we have a very fragmented nature. Having a coherent nature is, in fact, the first prerequisite for improving our biodiversity and maintaining our species. And with this bill, we're just putting the opportunity to the municipalities, that is, that you can strategically look ahead and look at how we're going to plan a more coherent nature. We are used to planning in Denmark for urban zone and land zone, but now, without creating a natural zone, there will actually be an opportunity for municipalities to sit together in the green councils, with their stakeholders, etc. and make a plan for how to get a green Danish map. We have some obligations under UN conventions, but especially in relation to the state of nature worldwide; we must therefore stop the decline of species in Denmark. It's actually a rather low target. We are not even going to discuss how to improve the stock of species in Denmark, no, we are looking at stopping the decline. We have a target by 2020 that will be difficult to meet, but we have a target that is, you might say, a negative one, and we now have a chance to give a move, if nothing else, in the long run. Because we have an opportunity to draw the Danish map with a coherent nature and to make a special effort in the areas we have already protected, but which are not really very well protected when you can both fertilize and spread pesticides. By taking out section 3 areas and saying that they should be fertiliser-free and pesticide-free, we will actually have an opportunity to have a much better condition in the places already designated. The best thing about this is that it is precisely the recommendations made by the Nature and Agriculture Commission, and where there was a great deal of focus on the fact that it was about the balance, because in Denmark too we are deeply dependent on the fact that we have a strong high-quality food production of high environmental standards. And it is not, as the DF's rapporteur said, because the environment is a sacred cow. No, but it's all ours to ensure that we also have a Denmark with living nature in the future. And now that we have an opportunity to do something about these things, one can be inspired by the way we have organized the last water planning, for example, and it is precisely by having some advice that goes across municipal boundaries and where one has been able to plan in cooperation with other municipalities. So what has been going on in terms of how to plan this as best we can, I look forward very much to discussing when we come to the committee work on this bill. So the Radical Left supports the bill and thinks it is very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144010	Thank you. Four comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144017	Thank you. I have no doubt that the radical rapporteur of course thinks that this bill is very good for nature. Could the radical rapporteur perhaps confirm that there is a great deal of overgrown nature at home in Denmark, which really needs a helping hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144048	I think we can agree on that. This is not something that this bill in itself does not prevent or do otherwise in this way. I would really like the questioner to clarify what kind of help the Left will give to nature. I think we need to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144111	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144112	But fortunately, I have to ask the questions today. So I would really like to ask the following question: would it not be better to start there? So, now that we all know that there is a great deal of nature that is easily spent on, wasn't it an idea that you actually started with that nature and started with it in the first place, rather than choosing to limit food production as well? In fact, with these three areas, which are now not allowed to be fertilized or sprayed in the future, will we not also limit food production?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144150	You don't necessarily do that. You have to, for example. still want to have organic farming in those § 3 areas understood in the way that you can have cattle to graze. We have an objective, which we have also taken over from the previous government, to increase the production of organic food, and this is, of course, an additional incentive for the area which has already been withdrawn from normal farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144224	The next question is Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144226	Thank you. Now the rapporteur very much praised the fact that there were these three areas which became fertiliser-free and pesticide-free, and that is why I would like to read out the proposal. It says here: the bill exempts land used for grazing for organic livestock from the ban on fertilising. So completely fertiliser-free and pesticide-free, they're hardly going to be. All you have to do is have an organically farmed animal. Well, then you're allowed to spray. There is what I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur why it is quite right that an organic farmer with organically farmed animals should be allowed to fertilise on these lands; it was obviously so important to get fertiliser and pesticide-free when a conventional farmer is not allowed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144312	At least there are no pesticides in this way in organic farming, I would just like to start by saying. So it is not the case that pesticides are spread wherever you have organic farming. The second is that there are different considerations in relation to organic meat production or organic production, which means that organically produced animals must actually be out. There are, in fact, various points which argue that it is precisely in this way that we can ensure that there is no decline in organic production precisely in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144352	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144353	Now I have mentioned earlier that I am a city dweller, so it may be that it is because I just don't understand it, because it is a black speech for me. So, if you have a field and it has been defined as a § 3 natural area and you are a conventional farmer, you have your animals on the farm and have them out in the summer to graze, then you must not fertilize. If you are an organic farmer and have the animals on the farm and take them out to graze, you can fertilize. Can Mrs Lone Loklindt not tell me why we can be an ecologist, but not as a conventional farmer?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144435	As I said, as an ecologist, we do not need pesticides, and that is why we can allow organic production, also simply because otherwise we would unnecessarily limit organic production by means of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144452	The next brief remark is Mr. Henrik Høegh, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144456	Then it has to be said in this question that it is more a view of what kind of crop you want than anything you do for nature, because either nitrogen is from conventional manure or from organic manure, it is damaging biodiversity. That's why. You want biodiversity at the same time as the grass, and it cannot be there if it gets nitrogen. And that's whether it's conventional or organic. But it was just a statement. I should like to ask the radical rapporteur: are you radicals in favour of the formation of regional, local, municipal, let us find out what boundaries there should be, nature councils that could work with it here and with these designations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144542	As I mentioned briefly in my rapporteur's speech, we are actually very, very concerned about how well the water councils we have had set up were doing. There we have a water catchment area where you go across municipal boundaries. We know that nature does not necessarily know municipality boundaries either, and on that basis there could be good music in looking at whether it was something we could be inspired by. It's like that in all municipalities. Nearly 94 out of 98 there are green councils, which in some ways also have a function in planning for nature considerations in the individual municipalities, which is of course a bit difficult. It is certainly not in the draft law, as it is, that there is a precise definition of how it should be done. It is actually quite free for the municipalities, but we think it is a good idea that one could be inspired by some of it from the water bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144647	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144649	There was another subject. The rapporteur tells us that we will be able to meet biodiversity requirements more quickly if we take more land out and make some corridors, that is to say, more cultivation land. How does the rapporteur feel this is in keeping with the statements made by naturalist Professor Morten D.D. Hansen and others from the Natural History Museum, who directly state that we will get more of those very vulnerable little mosquito caterpillar species, which are some of them we need a lot of, if we do something in the nature we have, if we expand in the very good nature areas we have today, that is Natura 2000 areas, rather than starting to create a corridor over the farmland, where there are towns and thistles in the first many years? I don't think it harmonizes so well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144742	Now there are many skills in the natural area as well, and in terms of how we get the best nature. Some people believe that we should keep it quiet in all the forests, and then it happens all by itself that we will have the high biodiversity. That is also a way of watering down the yield from forestry in Denmark, if we were to leave all the forests untouched. So I just want to say that there are a lot of ways of looking at it, but since, for example, we are... We had our trip to England, where we were just looking at what nature care means in agriculture, so we actually saw that there was a great deal of emphasis there on the fact that there were corridors, perhaps not so much for mosquitoes, but even more for foxes and other animals, which are larger and which move over greater distances, and what it has to do with them. I myself am not a biologist or anything similar, but I do not believe that one expert's opinion can be taken as the basis for our draft law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144850	The last questioner seems to be Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144854	Thank you. It is true that there are many professional skills in this area, and one of them is the Nature and Agriculture Commission to which the rapporteur has also referred. I think it was expressed in such a way that these were exactly the answers that the Commission asked for. Now here I am with a piece of paper that sets the Commission's work in motion and where, under the first headline, which is called modern and intelligent nature and environmental regulation, and under the very first dot, the existing regulation creates too many barriers by being based on production restrictions. That was the very first consideration that the Commission had to take. How does the rapporteur think it fits in with the consequences of this bill that the most important thing is that when we have to look forward in time, in terms of how we should regulate the environment, it should not be at the expense of agricultural production opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115144954	This bill is not just a follow-up to the work of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. After all, there are also things we have done to deregulate and remove barriers to agriculture, and with good reason. As the majority have said, agriculture, like nature, is perhaps also under pressure on some other parameters, which is why this is not in itself something where we limit agriculture the most. On the contrary, in cooperation with several parties, we have changed some requirements in relation to peripheral areas and other matters relating to the environment in agriculture. We know that more targeted measures are being prepared, which should be something that loosened the constraints on agriculture, so that the environment is spared where nature is vulnerable, but can actually do more, grow more, be more intensive where nature allows it or where the soil is robust.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145105	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145106	Thank you for that and then I think I will continue my second question following on from Henrik Høegh's remark about this involving new nature instead of looking a little more at the existing nature. If it was the case that we really wanted to make an effort that gave the most environment for money, understood in the sense that the most endangered species of animals and plant species came first, and if we were to take the view that this should be done cheaply, why go in and intervene in a production business that we are doing here, when we can go down and look at the state forests and say that they have a purpose to obtain biodiversity? For example: half of the state forests could be left untouched; it would not cost much money to the economy. Why do we not go into such areas, which give much more in the endangered species, and I assume that this is what is important; we have heard this over and over again in relation to some section 3 areas which do not have the same biodiversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145218	I also think that something should be done in the forests. I also expect us to have a forestry programme at a time that is about how we do more for the biodiversity of forests, but that is not what lies here in Nature Plan Denmark alone. We now have an opportunity to do something in areas we have already identified. So there are Natura 2000 areas where we can be happy that the European Union has helped us to identify something that we will then protect, and we have Section 3 areas where we already have protection. It is, in fact, the same areas that we are trying at first to get extra protection. Secondly, when municipalities plan for more intensive farming, there is an extension of agricultural holdings in some places, so there is also an opportunity for planning in relation to nature. The fact that the municipality can plan strategically is a huge step forward, also to ensure that we have nature, which, what to say, can be opposed to the growth of cities, etc. in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145326	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks right now. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145340	Nature Plan Denmark and the Nature Fund are two important breakthroughs in Danish natural policy. SF considers that the present draft law is a good implementation of those parts of the plan that require legislative changes. The SF can therefore, of course, vote in favour of the proposal, although it is not quite the same plan that we presented in 2009 as a motion for a resolution in the Folketing. We then proposed concrete targets for action. With the chosen strategy model, it would not make sense to set sub-targets for the area of individual habitat types. It will so far be decided out in reality when the municipalities carry out the planning, and the green Danish map takes shape. In general, it must be assumed that we will have a larger natural area as a whole. At the same time, Nature Plan Denmark is the biodiversity strategy that Denmark has undertaken to make in the UN and in the EU by 2015. This may be slightly outside the scope of the legislative proposal itself, but the SF wants to try through the committee work to see if we can get a description of what concrete objectives we are aiming for in 2020. I know it's not quite easy. The development of biodiversity is, after all, difficult to quantify in comparison with, for example. CO 2 Biodiversity is not only about giving nature more space and coherence, but also more content. The SF has proposed a biodiversity law which obliges the government to implement the international objectives set by the EU and the UN. At the same time, the law could be a framework law for the multitude of laws and regulations that are in the natural field and that can be well targeted and simplified. Whether we find a majority in favour of such a law at a time, we believe that we need a better common understanding of what biodiversity is and how we can measure it in relation to our commitments. In conclusion, I would like to say that agriculture, with the government's agreement with the bourgeois people, has received a great deal on its side, without having been compensated accordingly on the natural side. It has cost on the natural side of the balanced account. We therefore hope that we have heard from some of the bourgeois today that there will still be some bourgeois parties that will help to achieve a slightly better balance by supporting the bill. This will give hope for a broad majority that will support the implementation of the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. Finally, I would like to say that it is precisely the Nature and Agriculture Commission that we have been discussing today, which, historically, should end the trench war between agriculture and the environment about nature and which should ensure that there is room for both nature and agriculture in a balanced way. Today we are dealing first with this bill, in which we are trying to compensate on behalf of nature on top of some of the measures that have also been given to agriculture. SF is really happy about this bill, and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145643	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. First, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145647	Thank you. I think I will address what the rapporteur himself said, and perhaps I could get the rapporteur to clarify it a little. The rapporteur for the SF says that there is a trench war as I could understand it between nature and agriculture. Does the SF rapporteur not think that agriculture actually helps in a very, very many areas to nurture nature in our country?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145721	First of all, I would like to make clear what I meant by trench warfare. Well, I think that there has been a trench war historically in Denmark between agriculture on the one hand and nature on the other, and that is why I think it was so good that we set up a Nature and Agriculture Commission, and I think their recommendations are really excellent in relation to the two parties being able to live side by side. In relation to whether there are farmers who practice nature care and take good care of nature: Well, I think there are parts of agriculture that take good care of nature • not all parts of agriculture. I also think that there is a need for clarity in relation to parts of this, while at the same time this bill also includes voluntary efforts in relation to this part. So yes, there are parts of agriculture that make a great deal of effort in relation to nature care, and there are other places that do so to a lesser extent, I think one can say. Again, as other rapporteurs have also said, there are parts of Danish agricultural land that are more robust than others. That is precisely why we are discussing section 3 today in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145827	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145830	Now I do not know how many times the rapporteur himself has walked out there, but I can at least say, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that on Monday I visited one of these farmers who have lands and who are the third generation on the farm. And for 100 years you've been able to grow the land here and look after nature. He was one of those who was watching where the yellow runners were and, as he himself said, now I am being punished, because in the future I cannot be allowed to fertilize this land so that I can continue to have cattle on my farm. And I really would like to ask the rapporteur that. Well, I think it's really, really far along the way, when you go out there, that agriculture helps to nurture nature, and I don't understand why, unless it's to make a new trench war, you haven't chosen to go out and talk to these people about how it's going to affect their everyday lives before you start limiting the opportunity to fertilize these lands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115145938	Well, as I also think my radical colleague mentioned, the designated areas are not new. Well, they've been around for a really, really long time. And I have no doubt that the farmer in question, mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left, has also done a good job. The point is that we need to reduce, and in relation to some of these areas, we need to reduce. But again: In this draft law, and it's actually something that several green organisations have been very critical of... there's an extremely high level of volunteering in terms of how it's to be fulfilled. There are also possibilities for compensation. One has to say: yes, agriculture is right, really pressured for various reasons, for an extremely large debt, among other things. and by other conditions. We have drawn up a food growth plan which, when I have the floor again, I would also like to mention precisely in order to provide a better framework for agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150047	The next question is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150050	Thank you. I just wanted to ask an extra question on the basis of what the rapporteur said, namely that there are parts of agriculture that care about nature, but not everyone. I do not know whether the rapporteur has made such a division inside the head with the fact that there are certainly some who are doing something and that there are some who are doing nothing. Can the rapporteur define this better? I'd like to hear that. That was one thing. The second point is that I would just like to reiterate my question as to whether the rapporteur for the SF can explain to me why an organic farmer may fertilise section 3 areas while a conventional farmer may not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150131	To the first question, one can basically just see that fines are being handed out, that we have cases and so on. Running. So, of course, there is a difference between farmers. There are farmers who are doing a huge amount of nature care, and there are others who are doing it to a lesser extent. I'm out of a farmer's family myself, but I'd say it wasn't profitable. After all, we have a type of farming in Denmark, where there must gradually be very, very large farms; and side by side with that we have, for example. I also welcome more organic farming. But in order to be able to answer the last question, I would say: yes, it is a political choice. It is a political choice because we want to double the ecological area by 2020. And organic farming also has other environmental benefits. But that is just a clear answer to the question put by the questioner, namely that it is a political choice not to reduce organic farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150245	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150247	Thank you very much for the very clear answer that it is precisely a political choice and that it has nothing to do with better nature. I am very pleased about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150300	Does this give rise to an answer from the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150301	Yes, now I think the questioner is putting words in my mouth. It is all about better nature and, as in many other areas, there can be differentiated rules. This is also the case here because organic farming has other environmental benefits. But yes, the fact that there is discrimination here is a political choice. But overall, in the big picture, it's all about getting a better nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150325	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150337	Now I am so old and have such a large family that my whole speech could go with it if I had to explain my relationship with people in rural and urban areas. I shall confine myself to saying that, in connection with Skagenfestivals, I regularly meet a pig producer from Funen who, I believe, even votes for the Left. It is going very well, but perhaps it is going very well, first of all, because he has not yet tried to convince me that pig production is about protecting nature, the environment and biodiversity. So much respect we have for each other that we kind of start somewhere near reality, and then we take the discussions from there. Another thing I want to say is that I still think it's a little incredible. We are discussing a bill here that will ban the use of spray poisons in a protected nature, and then we are discussing a bill that will make a Green Denmark card that will only become something out in reality if the municipalities and farmers want it. Well, I think it would be more reasonable, in essence, if we had a discussion about whether the government could not pull itself together and turn its ambitions up a little, rather than describing it here as such a huge nature-oriented proposal. It is indeed the case that nature and its swarms of nature and life have a right of existence in themselves, and as human beings we are, although we sometimes want to displace it, of course also part of nature. In fact, it is nature that ensures our basic needs for food, clean water and clean air, the materials we use for the development of medicine and the raw materials we use to produce consumer goods. The good functioning of nature's ecosystems is, in fact, crucial to our well-being and prosperity and, ultimately, to our survival as a species. That recognition should, of course, be obvious and be the whole starting point for today's debate, whether you have grown up on the stone bridge or in rural areas. The recognition is so crowded in the background of decades of focus on efficiency, growth and intensive production, among others. in fisheries and agriculture. After all, agriculture dominates the Danish landscape quite violently. I do not think that any country in the world is so dominated by agriculture as Denmark, and the result of that is that nature and biodiversity are under severe pressure. This isn't about whether one or the other farmer does one thing or the other, because they do. It is about whether the industrial agricultural production we have in Denmark is straining nature and the environment, or whether it does not, and whether it is straining biodiversity, or whether it does not. And it does. Even people who are members of the Left and the Danish People's Party, whatever part of the landscape they come from, must recognize that. For us, natural policy is about turning the decline in biodiversity into progress. This must be done by ensuring the habitats of species and by giving way back to nature. But it is also a question of converting our agricultural production so that it supports a nature rich in biodiversity rather than contrasting it. That is one of the reasons why we can at least support what the government is proposing, namely that organic farming should be treated better in this matter than conventional agriculture, because it does, and it is precisely to promote a form of production that takes greater account of nature and the environment than the existing form of production does. I believe that natural policy has to go on two legs. Firstly, the existing nature must be guaranteed immediate protection and improved as a habitat for endangered species, and secondly, we must also have more space for nature. That is why we need to convert agricultural land into nature. We are, in fact, in favour of focusing on the areas, for example. I don't want to be left alone. I fully agree, and I think it would be nice if we could have an alliance with the Liberal Alliance to implement that in large parts of the Danish forests we have no production but allowed nature to develop. But we must also recognise that this is due to the fact that biodiversity is actually very much linked to those forests. I fully agree with that. But it is not contrary to also trying to create more space for nature and create some of the corridors which, in fact, are also very important for the development of nature in the future. So this proposal is pointing in the right direction. However, just to reassure those who believe that Enhedslisten has had too much influence, it is only a very, very small part of the transformation of our society that we should make if we are to seriously protect nature and biodiversity in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150821	Thank you. There are still two questions to be asked about short remarks. The first is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150828	I always think it is fun to address some of what the rapporteur himself says and then get a little deeper into it. For the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten, sir. Per Clausen, has just said that you want to take out even more agricultural land for more nature. I would like to know how much more agricultural land the Enhedslisten thinks should be taken out. Is there some kind of limit? So, is there still going to be farming here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150904	As far as I know, two thirds of the land in Denmark today is occupied by agricultural land, and 80%. of it is used to produce feed, primarily for pigs. I think there is a good chance of removing part of that land from agricultural production and transforming it into nature. That is really what this proposal is about, that is, the part of what is about making the green Danish map. That is also what we are talking about when we say that we have to pull part of the land that is very humid and so on out of production. It's both too reducing CO2 so it's part of the policy, and I don't think there's any reason to hide that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150941	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115150944	Yes, but at the same time the rapporteur said that, unfortunately, I think he said that he did not put such a large print on the bill, and if it were on the Enhedslisten, perhaps you would have liked to have had even more. How much more would Enhedslisten have wanted to have to be taken out?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151005	There is no doubt that we would have liked to see clear objectives set for how much natural land would grow in Denmark in the coming years, for example. Until 2020, and for how much to benefit biodiversity. We would have liked it to have been the political demands that had been made, rather than leaving it entirely to the municipalities and agriculture to decide voluntarily on what this should be like. And I would say that if agriculture had now taken up half the area in Denmark, it would still be a very, very large part of our area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151036	Mrs Pia Adelsteen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151039	That's interesting. Following on from the answers that have just been received, I have two questions. I understand that of the areas used to make pig feed, there are some, at least Enhedslisten, who could be involved in nature areas. So where are we gonna get the pork feed? 'Cause I guess we're still gonna have to have pigs, or does it matter? The second is in relation to this principle of voluntaryness, which lies in the natural corridors in the nature plan. There I could understand in the Enhedslisten that it is not really supposed to be voluntary at all. Are we in some kind of expropriation or what are we into?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151123	I think that the first thing we should do is to define very precise objectives for a change and then see how it could be achieved. I would just like to say that it is not a secret. I do not think so, I hope at least that the Enhedslisten has the clear view that agricultural production and food production in Denmark should be changed and that, as part of that change, we should also reduce the amount of pigs we produce. We then have a clear expectation that by converting production we can also produce some products for which we can actually get a higher price, so that we can make more money on less. It is a bit like the Left also prefers to have more nature, without it having to cost farmers anything. It should preferably be the case that farmers get extra money. We are aware that this is going to cost something, but we are actually in favour of a restructuring of food production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151208	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151211	But that means that I have to understand the fact that the pig production and the pig exports, which we have, after all, a large part of in Denmark, are so opposed to Enhedslisten. We just need to find something else that we can export and make a living from... I don't know exactly what. But we must do that, just as we must close the holes in the North Sea so that we do not use fossil fuel and then find the money elsewhere. Is that how I'm supposed to understand Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151237	One might ask oneself whether a sector characterised by declining earnings, fewer jobs and that of conventional pig production is what we need to focus on in our food production forward-looking in order to create jobs and development, while at the same time accepting that nature and the environment are being destroyed; or whether we need to opt for a change in agriculture that allows us to make money while protecting nature and the environment. We're mostly to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151316	Thank you. Interesting debate where Enhedslisten will explain to agriculture how it will make more money. Leave it alone. Most people probably remember that, prior to the last election campaign, the great battle number was the setting up of a Nature and Agriculture Commission to ensure that both agriculture and a diverse nature could go hand in hand, as it was shown to be. Let us not forget that it has been a few years before the government has really opened up this area and now choose to strike at a time when we have an agricultural industry today which is in an almost existential crisis. I heard the Socialist rapporteur express it in such a way that it was an extremely difficult situation. Then we'll get hit. Not because our agriculture cannot make food for a competitive price • we have proud traditions for that through a lot of human ages • but because many are deeply indebted and because from here we offer some conditions that lie miles away from our neighbouring countries and thus our competitors. Regardless of the figures used for operating and value losses, whether it is 47 or 67 million that have been in play or whether it is 1 or 2 billion. kr. In the case of land losses, it is an advanced form of self-torment that we are again engaged in in the trade and production which should be the most secure and profitable to invest in the future if we as a society want growth and employment. Food, as you know, is a basic good. It does not go out of fashion, and it should take precedence over toads and insects. And we all know that global demand can only go one way, and that is up. Yet here in Denmark, of our own free will, we choose to scrap near 40,000 hectares, with the result that instead of allowing the farmer to fertilise with his own manure, we now have to import soya straw to ensure protein content in the feed for our livestock. Frankly, is there anything more natural, including environmental, than allowing the farmer to fertilize his land with his own produced manure and then produce feed with a sensible protein content for his own animals? Why should this be less sustainable than for example? to import protein from the other side of the globe? Indeed, in the same way as the restrictions on nitrogen use prevent us from producing cereals for our own bread production, also because of protein shortages. If you were quite sure that this was where you would get the most environment for money, mostly biodiversity, but we are so far from it. In the farm leaves we see a string of examples of how uneconomic care plans will now cease, how you will experience fouling and, for example, slopes to fight. If these natural areas are given up completely, drainage will not be cared for, so that dumping and overgrowning will be a very close result. In relation to the main message of determination from the Nature and Agriculture Commission, I do not think that it is particularly targeted to deal with 10%. of the agricultural area in the same way. What's the point here? I believe that much more biodiversity can be achieved for less money by ensuring, for example. I have already mentioned untouched forest, and one could start with state forests, which do not exactly have a gold-ridden business in the forestry industry. This is precisely where the aim is to create biodiversity, and we know that the most endangered species are in the state forests. No, it is not that interesting, because now we have to talk about ecology, and now we have to limit the production potential of agriculture. In any case, agriculture is the last industry which wants production restrictions with the prospect of even very limited effect. I really hope that every effort will be made to test the rules of expropriation, not least in the light of the studies which tell us that more than half of farmers will actually have reductions of more than 5%. of their operating area. I also think it is a disgraceful proposal, when it is stated in the Nature and Agriculture Commission, that in future environmental regulation should be introduced without production restrictions in agriculture. This is exactly the opposite of what we've done. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115151835	Thank you. For the Conservative People's Party, our beautiful nature is a huge asset for the country and us who enjoy it. We also believe that we have an obligation to preserve nature and deliver it to future generations. Having said that, however, it is also important that we have a green realism. It is important that nature, its development and its preservation go hand in hand with Danish traditions for nature. For what is nature? Part of the natural tradition in Denmark is and always has been that we cultivate nature. We're an agricultural nation. This means that a large part of our nature, for example. are fields and meadows. Some are grown in different ways, organically or conventionally, some are used for farm animals, and others are reserved for wild animal and plant life. Our task is to ensure that there is room for everything, that there are good conditions for everything and that there is a good balance between things. The bill lays down a ban on fertilising and spraying on section 3 areas. These are areas where fertilization is permitted today. But does it improve nature? In some places it probably does, but elsewhere the ban will weaken or perhaps completely remove the incentive to take hay and graze the land, and this can have the consequence that the care ceases and that the area grows. Of course, there are advantages of protected nature, but there are indeed advantages of the nature that is cared for and nurtured. It was perhaps better that we focused on the many thousands of acres, which are already protected nature, which has never been fertilised or sprayed, but which are today in many places threatened by fouling due to lack of nature care. It will provide much more nature and biodiversity for the money, and we would like to contribute to that. These could also be areas where efforts are needed for groundwater. Another element of this is agriculture, which is going to be the big losers here. If such a pressure industry now gets even more away from it and gets even heavier financial burdens on its shoulders, then it is not just a few farmers, because when agriculture bleeds, it hits us all. It hits the billion-dollar export that comes from the food cluster. It hits our tax revenue. It costs jobs, including the craftsmen, accountants and slaughterhouse workers. Let me elaborate on a few consequences of the bill. The Knowledge Centre for Agriculture has assessed that a minimum of 45,000 hectares are affected by the ban. It is five times the size of the City of Copenhagen, or it is 57,000 football fields. That's what you take from the farmers, and then they say: You own this land, you bought it, but now we're in charge of it. I read about a farmer in the newspaper... his name is Ove... and Ove will lose his right to 22 hectares of land. It's 28 big football fields. He is estimated to lose approx. 100,000 kroner. per ha, i.e. more than 2 million. kr., because he cannot get the same amount of feed out of the meadow, and because the soil simply falls into value. In the draft law, the operating losses are estimated at up to 47 million. kr. for agriculture, and then there is the deterioration in the soil value, which is estimated to be about 1.2 billion in the consultation note from the Danish Nature Agency. kr. But on top of that, Ove is going to buy some extra feed because he can't produce enough for his animals. It costs him money. It could, for example, be done. be soy from South America, which some farmers will have to use, and he must no longer throw away all his manure, so it must be driven elsewhere. And if he can't find another place, the consequence may be that he has to reduce the number of animals. Then Ove, like so many others, may soon be able to turn the key around. Berlingske wrote yesterday about a coming wave of bankruptcies and foreclosures. 11,000 Danish farmers owe over 360 billion. kr. Get out of the way. The director of Jyske Bank stated that agriculture is in its worst crisis ever. But now we're gonna press the lemon a little more. I could have spoken for a long time, including about the registration of land, which often happens only via aerial photography, and about some of the trouble that I might fear the municipalities will have, which could also have financial consequences. But let me conclude by saying that in the Conservative People's Party we really want nature. We will nurture it, we will develop it and we will preserve it. But it must also make sense, and unfortunately not everything in this legislative proposal makes sense, either in relation to nature, which in some places is best served by being cultivated and nurtured and has therefore also been so for so many years, nor for the environment, which in some places will now be unnecessarily burdened with heavy transport of feed and manure. This could be of great importance to all of us, whether we like me live in the countryside in North Jutland or on the fourth floor in Vesterbro. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152309	There is one more brief remark. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152313	Thank you very much. It is said that the Conservative People's Party wants nature. The rapporteur also says that nature is, of course, the cultivation of nature and, according to the rapporteur, there must be good conditions for it all. And what is it, then, that the rapporteur here today brings forward that should give impetus to nature? I thought it sounded like the rapporteur shot it all down. I know, of course, that, for example, the bill of intent has been the original silver of the Conservative People's Party, and I also know that the party's new president has shot it all down, or, to put it another way, has sold all the silver and now goes to frontal attacks on the law of plans. But let me just ask the rapporteur: can the Conservative People's Party here today support the part of the bill that is about Green Denmark Card? Can the Conservative People's Party also support the changes in sanctions introduced in relation to the violation of natural law?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152420	We would like to see nature, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen quoted me as saying that in many ways. And as I also said in my speech, I think we can do a lot of good in many places. We may just think it makes better sense to tackle some of those places, and I mentioned the nature that is already protected, but which we are not used to and which stands and is not in very good shape in many places. These could also be some of the places where we need to make an extra effort in relation to groundwater. We would very much like to do so, there should be no doubt about that. In relation to the green Danish map and to the fines, I think that there are too many ambiguities in relation to what is currently there. As far as fines are concerned, we can argue in favour and against. I think the last figure I heard was that there had been three cases in the past year or something like that. So that's not what matters to me. I do not think that there is any reason to raise the fines as it is right now. So that must be the answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152519	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152521	I can say that there have been 13 violations last year. The rapporteur says that we would rather do something about the nature that is already protected. Well, here I have to say that § 3 soil is naturally protected soil now. No new land is covered by this legislation. What lies in relation to the green Danish map is voluntaryness, and that is in the long term. I think the Conservative People's Party is really running away from taking responsibility for nature, plants and wildlife here and now. Can the rapporteur say a little bit about whether new land has been incorporated into this legislation? Or is this law aimed precisely at making an extra effort in those areas that are already protected by nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152619	However, these areas are being used today, as the rapporteur knows. There are many ways to look at what is good for nature, what is good for plant life, and what is good for animals. To nurture nature, care for it and fertilize etc. can have some advantages, and letting it be protected can have other advantages. Both are fine and, as I said in my speech, this is also the tradition in Denmark. This is just such a huge procedure, so you want to ask the other way. Now it is not my turn to ask, but there is also an agriculture that we have to take into account here, because it is also part of the Danish tradition in relation to nature. I have heard SF talk about this being a political choice, and I heard Enhedslisten talking about the ecological need to be treated much better than conventional and things. It is fair enough that you make a political choice about it, but we are not in favour of that here. We want nature, but in respect of what nature is and nature in Denmark are many things. It has always been, and it will continue to be, and we cannot support this tough intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152720	There is one or two more for a brief remark. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152725	I'd like to ask Mr. Daniel Rugholm, if he thinks that the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission in the report they made are an expression of precisely finding the balance where agriculture and nature can live side by side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152744	I cannot explain the whole of their report, but I can deal with the legislative proposal we are debating today, and I can answer the same question that I also replied to Mr Beazley's question. Flemming Møller Mortensen, namely that we have respect for nature and that we want nature, but let us get to where we already have plenty of protected nature that needs an extra hand because it actually just stands and turns into a scrub and so on. That's really, really too bad. So we have so many places we can go without starting to, I don't know whether to say irritate or even take a hard hold on an already pressed profession, which is also part of the Danish history and is also part of what is the Danish nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152824	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152827	Then I would like to ask another question. Because one could almost be led to believe that Daniel Rugholm believed that there would be a flood of bankruptcies on top of this bill. I very much hope that Mr. Daniel Rugholm may just want to clarify his answer to this. Too much 81%. of the farmers affected by this, there will be an operating loss of DKK 625. per month, and for a further 12 per cent. That's twice as much, that's $1,250. a month. That is to say, it totals over 90 per cent. Is that what will result in a flood of bankruptcies, or are there a large number of other things like the absurdly huge debt that is in agriculture that we have to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115152927	Of course, there is a huge challenge with what I also mentioned in my speech, namely that 11 000 farmers owe over 360 billion. kr. It is estimated that in the next few years only 1,000 farmers, or perhaps up to 2 000 farmers, will be forced to throw the towel into the ring. This isn't gonna do any good. You can take an example like what I took about Ove, which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen could also read about her local newspaper, for whom this has an effect of over 2 million. kr. That's really, really much money. Then it may well be that for some it is a few hundred kroner or a few thousand kroner, but there have been so many stories, not least from the area where the SF's rapporteur himself has been elected to the Folketing, about farmers who are being so hard pressed by this that they may have to shut down. That you're just a little nonchalant about it, I can't believe it. I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153020	There is one brief comment. Mrs Lone Loklindt, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153025	I have to say that I also get a little distracted by hearing the Conservative rapporteur, because that is not the line I thought the Conservative People's Party had in the matter of nature and development against better protection of nature in Denmark. But since the rapporteur repeatedly says that we need to do something more about what is already protected and just lies there, I would like to ask: what is the Conservative People's Party going to do? What are you gonna do instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153102	I can sense that there are many people sitting and saddened by my speech and the Conservatives' attitude to this, and you shouldn't be, as we would like nature to do well, but we would also like one of our most important professions to be very, very good. And I certainly do not think I sense that from the speeches of the government parties here today, and I think that is really, really unfortunate when we consider how much it has and how much agriculture means to us and our society. But we want nature. I mentioned, for example, that we need to address some of the protected areas we have around, which are standing and growing in the scrub because they need some kind of nature care. Let us look at some of the areas where our groundwater is exposed and where we need to make an extra effort to preserve our good water. There's plenty of things we could do, and we'd like to talk about that. We are not at all opposed to nature in any way, but in this way we go in and take something from farmers, as in the example I mentioned, with the fact that we take land that they have bought and paid for and which corresponds to up to 25-35 large football fields. We're saying it was really nice, but now we're gonna be in charge of it. Let us now start with some of the things that stand and fall and that need a loving hand before we start closing down more farms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153222	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153225	That was not a very clear description of what the Conservative People's Party would do. It was such a thing that we had to talk about it and so on. But we're gonna have to talk about that. Then I'd like to ask you a question. Now we have organic food production in Denmark, of which the government wants to double the area, but in fact it is also the case that the industry has a 10% increase in exports. a year. Is that something that impresses the Conservative People's Party? Does that mean, for example, that you have to... can agree that there is reason to add more nature, which is already protected nature, to something that can really be used for organic farming?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153314	I think it is fine when farmers choose to run their land ecologically rather than conventionally. It's their own choice, and I'd rather not get involved in that much. When I say we want to talk about it, it's because that's how we usually start things. I didn't mean to use it as a jelly jar. We would really like to talk about how we can improve nature in Denmark. I think we're gonna do it, too. It is not many weeks ago that there were good proposals that we also supported, and we are also doing so on a good proposal that will come in a few minutes, so it is not just in relation to nature, but more generally in relation to the environment. So we want to do this, but let's finally talk about it. I don't mean that as a jelly jar. I am serious; we would like to talk about improving nature in Denmark where we can. But we would also like to talk a little more with the government parties about how we might be able to improve the conditions of this profession, which is so pressured and which faces such great challenges. We could, of course, take that with us on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153410	Thank you. There are no more rapporteur speeches, so the next speaker is the Minister. Here you go, the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115153422	Thank you very much for one, I think, very good debate this afternoon about Denmark's nature, about where we want to go with Denmark's nature and what ambitions we have on nature's behalf. The government has a clear vision of our common nature. We will create a greener Denmark with a richer and more coherent and diverse nature until 2050. That is the long-term vision, and we will work with determination to stop the decline of our wildlife and plants and give them more space and better opportunity to spread. We want to ensure that even more people and future generations can enjoy the communities that nature provides, and the beauty and calmness of our nature. With Nature Plan Denmark we have set a clear direction for how we will reach the vision of a richer and more diverse nature in Denmark. Nature Plan Denmark is Denmark's biodiversity strategy, that is to say, the strategy to ensure that by 2020 we stop the decline in our biodiversity, and it follows up on the UN and EU biodiversity targets by 2020. With this bill we then realize three of the key efforts in Nature Plan Denmark. The rapporteur has been around the key elements, but just to repeat, I would like to mention them. We propose to oblige the municipalities to designate what we call Green Denmark Card. We propose a ban on fertilization and spraying on all our so-called § 3 areas, i.e. the already protected nature. And we propose to raise the level of fines so that it does not pay to harm our common nature. With the three measures, we are also following up several important nature recommendations from the Nature and Agriculture Commission. Let me start with the green Danish map. It is already the case today that the municipalities are planning for their valuable natural areas, but there is a need to develop larger and more coherent natural areas, and here it is a clear advantage also to think across municipal boundaries. By creating this common green Danish map, we get a long-term green master plan for how nature can develop across local boundaries. Better and more coherent nature will help to halt the decline in biodiversity and thus to meet our international commitments. We demand that the municipalities cooperate and apply new national criteria in their appointments. At the same time, we are providing the municipalities with new tools: digital nature maps, so the municipalities have the same basis for planning. It must, of course, create greater uniformity and coherence in their designation. The green Danish map has already been criticized here for the fact that we hear it a little today too late, on the one hand, because we do not get a certain number of square kilometres of new nature and there is insufficient funding, and on the other hand, as we are hearing here today, to be too tight, because for example. These green lines and spots on the map can have consequences for the landscaping and limit the industry. We are also hearing concerns about this today. I do not share the concerns that the green Danish map ends up in one or the other of those ditches. The planned lines on the map will gradually become reality through a voluntary effort by private pilots, municipalities, the state and foundations' many different nature projects. Before long we will also have a large active player on the field in the form of the Danish Nature Fund, which among other things. will buy new nature for millions. But it is a little central to remember, and perhaps I would say this to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who got things mixed up a little bit in connection with whether this is because the green Danish map is just being pulled over the head of the landowners, that these are precisely voluntary agreements, where you want to go in and make agreements and also compensate where there is a loss. So it's important that you just remember to separate things. It is a confusion that was mainly made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. But let me also make it clear that the same rules will apply in the area of the green land map as outside it. It will therefore not in itself affect the decision of the municipalities, for example. in cases under the livestock rules, which have also been asked about here today. The municipalities must designate areas for the green Danish map for the first time with the municipal plans in 2017 and of course in the following municipal plans continuously adjust it. The task lies directly with the municipalities' existing tasks in the field of nature and planning. That is why I would also like to call on the rapporteur of the Left, who said that, on the basis of the Green Danmark card, she had been in favour of maintaining the optimism of perhaps reaching a common solution in this area in committee, and that we are getting constructive into it, and that we have a talk about what I understand the Left has been very concerned about: the local involvement, the local anchoring of the preparation for this green Danish map. For example: I have indicated, also in the consultation we had on the same subject, that we can of course discuss whether there is any possibility that we can build on the good experience with the water bodies and look at the water bodies and whether they could be inspired by the work on the green Denmark map. Let us discuss this in committee. I hope that we will try to maintain a positive attitude towards that part of the legislative proposal. In fact, I believe that this is something that should be able to bring the Folketing together broadly. I would also like to say to the Conservative rapporteur that if you wanted to show in action that you want nature well, then perhaps it was one of the areas of this bill that could be looked at a little more positively so that we could find common ground there. The second part of the legislative proposal, on which there has been a great deal of debate here today, is, of course, that we want to strengthen efforts for our wildlife and plants. We must, of course, take action, because nature has been under pressure and is under pressure. As I said, we want a richer nature, but it is also because we know, as several rapporteurs have also said, that our society, and not least our economy, is based on our nature. We live very much of nature, and that is why we must take care of it. When we want to help wild animals and plants, it is essential to look at their habitats. Therefore, we will prohibit spraying and fertilization in all natural areas already protected by Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act. We take the step, as it were, fully in relation to the Nature Conservation Act, because by far the largest parts of the § 3 areas are already spraying and fertilising-free. Now we take the step to the full. It is also a recommendation from the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which I think gave a balanced view of how improvements should be made for the agricultural industry, and that is one of the points raised by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, namely that there was a need for balancing the various considerations. On the one hand, the concern for the industry, that is, how we can create growth and development for the industry, and on the other, how we can bring about improvements in nature. That balance the government wants to achieve, and that's why we asked the commission to make some bids for it. It is so clear here today, I think, that some people are choosing a more one-sided approach which will not follow up on the nature recommendations, but only on the growth recommendations or recommendations in relation to the industry. The government wants the balanced approach, and that is why I also have an appeal to see the follow-up to the Nature and Agriculture Commission carried out by the government in a context and in a whole, namely that we have both taken initiatives to ensure that we meet some of the wishes of the industry, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. The proposal will have and I have also indicated this and answered a number of questions about the economic consequences, i.e. the section 3 areas. We also give pilots the opportunity, if it is an expropriation, that is, if it has an expropriation character, that compensation or exemption can then be obtained. It is, of course, an important point to make today when it comes to applying for exemption or compensation if one is particularly hard hit. But it is our view that the vast majority will be affected to an extent where there will be no expropriation, and we also have the word of the DA for that. At the same time, a transitional period of three growing seasons will be given to adapt to the new conditions, so that pilot owners will also be able to organise the operation of the land in accordance with the new rules. So I believe that, with our overall follow-up to the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, we have found the balance between, on the one hand, the concern for growth and development and, on the other, the concern for nature. The third element of the draft law that I should like to touch on is the fact that we do not believe it should be worthwhile to harm our protected nature. That is why we want to increase the indicative level of fines for infringement of the Nature Conservation Act, so that it is at the same level as similar infringements of similar environmental legislation. Today there are relatively low fines ranging from DKr 2,000 to DKr 8,000. for damage caused to nature. It seems the government is too low, and that is why we want to raise the indicative level. However, it will, of course, continue to be the courts that determine the final amount of the fine. Nature is a common good, which we also have a common responsibility to ensure both for our own and for future generations. This bill is an important step towards that goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154512	Thank you, Minister. And there is one too short comment. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154517	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for confirming and listening here in the Chamber today! In other words, one of the things that I know very many farmers are very nervous about is, when you make a green stripe across the country and make coherent nature, how it affects those farmers who are just outside the border, and how does it affect farmers inside the green area for that matter? And that's where I'm thinking. on requests for enlargement along the way etc. I would like to put a question to the Minister, because several of the rapporteurs of the red parties have said in this Chamber today that the purpose of this bill was actually to try to support organic farming. So, is the purpose really to support the ecologists?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154635	The purpose of this bill is to strengthen our nature; it is to ensure more and better coherent nature in Denmark; it is to stop the decline in biodiversity. It is, of course, the whole coinage, one might say, of those parts of Nature Plan Denmark that require legislation. Then there is an element of what is about the § 3 areas and the spray and fertilization ban on the § 3 areas. And it is true that we have made an exception for ecologists in relation to fertilization. The ecologists are not already spraying, so it can be said that, for this reason alone, the environmental impact on pesticides is not there for the ecologists. However, we have chosen to make an exception in relation to the fertilising part for ecologists, and it is about the government having a political objective that we will double the ecological area by 2020, and that, of course, there are special rules for ecologists that their animals should be on grass some part of the year. That is why we can say: yes, there has been a consideration here of the ecologists, because there are some special things that apply to the ecologists when it comes to having the animals on the grass.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154738	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154740	Thank you. There is another question which I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister here today. The Minister says that the particularly hard-hit can then seek compensation and that, of course, that depends on an assessment in the individual cases. Could the Minister say a little more about what lies in being particularly hard hit? I mean, in that case, you will, among other things. also recognise what the lower land value means when the farmer has to go to the bank and have the cash credit renewed? Is it also one of the things that counts when you look at whether the farmer is now being particularly hard hit?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154819	I have submitted detailed notes on the financial consequences that we consider there will be of this, also with regard to the creditworthiness in relation to both the operating loss and the land value loss. So it's kind of black and white, what the assessment is in relation to it. When it comes to the possibility of obtaining compensation or exemption in the case of expropriation, it will depend on a very specific assessment in each case. So there I would call for those farmers who think they are particularly badly affected by this to apply for exemption or compensation, and then there will be a concrete assessment in each case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154901	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Henrik Høegh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154907	Thank you. I would like to ask once more to be absolutely sure: can we agree that once the municipalities have drawn the green Danish map, it will not be important in the work on EIAs and in the work on reviewing an EIA? In other words, if we succeed and if we get through this, and if we make a voluntary agreement, will we have an area designation that does not have any consequences for the farmer concerned, who is included in a voluntary agreement, and his future livestock production?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115154944	But it is true that the green Danish map will not in itself bring about changes in relation to sectoral legislation, nor in relation to the livestock law or the administration of existing sectoral legislation. But it is clear that this will be the case, and it is also the case, according to the rules in force, that new nature, which occurs and may develop over a long period of time into vulnerable nature, can of course have significance, for example. In relation to the ammonia requirements for agriculture, and I also know that that is the case, Mr President. Henrik Høegh has been busy asking questions about. But that is also true today when it comes to the new nature that it could arise today. I was not given the opportunity to do so in my rapporteur's speech, but I think that when we talk about this with a new nature, new lines, it is important that we just clarify the national criteria on which this green Danish map should be designated, because that is also the new one, namely that we have some general new national criteria which the municipalities must designate. There is the first criterion, therefore, that it is on the basis of existing valuable natural areas outside Natura 2000 sites that you have to start drawing this map, and then it is new natural areas that can expand or link existing valuable natural areas. It is also right to address the misunderstanding that has prevailed among some researchers in the field and that this is not, in this way, about our valuable nature, because it does so very much, and it is based on the duty that the municipalities already have in determining the link between our existing valuable nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155119	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155121	Then we are at the heart of the matter. It is precisely farmers who have undertaken to start grazing and really increase biodiversity in some overgrown nature today. They see that when they are to have their environmental approval renewed, because of the nature effort the farmer has made, the biodiversity we all want and protected species have been found. And then when he has to re-evaluate his environmental approval after 8 years, then comes the ammonia requirements. I just have to say that we cannot agree to draw new lines, which means that this happens to the farmers who say yes, it is good that I want to help create a corridor. I think it is a good thing that they are doing this, and I hope that voluntary agreements can be made. But once the corridor is drawn, the municipality must take it into account at the next review of the notice, well to notice if there are those species in that corridor. But that is precisely why we are making the corridor, in other words for those species to come and for biodiversity. So we do not get around the fact that that farmer is helping to dig the grave for his own livestock production if he is involved in this. Can we make another model for that so we can avoid it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155239	Well, I think that sir... Henrik Høegh, in his presentation, overlooks the fact that this is based on voluntary agreements locally. This is not, in fact, changed in relation to the agreements that the municipalities are already out to make in relation to the designation of the green corridors. What is happening here is that we simply make some national criteria and provide municipalities with new tools for using the new digital nature maps. And then we say that we also want to create coherence across the municipal boundaries, which is why we bring it into this, so that we can eventually draw the new green Danish map. But this is going to happen on the basis of the good experiences that the municipalities already have with going out and planning for these green corridors and taking the dialogue locally and involving local pilots in the planning. And there is what I am saying here today about how we can clarify this here with local involvement and ensure that there is also a good and constructive dialogue on this at local level. I think that the Left should go into this constructively during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155348	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155407	The debate is open. And the Left rapporteur is on his way, I see. Sir. Henrik Høegh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155438	Thank you. The bill we are now considering is a legislative proposal for a four-year funding for the continuation of the so-called environmental technology development and demonstration programme, in daily terms called MUDP. We think this is a good programme. We think there are prospects in developing and applying environmentally-efficient solutions to priority environmental challenges, and we think it is good that this can support growth and employment. There are some good intentions in this, namely that it is for the development, testing and demonstration of new technologies and the establishment of innovation partnerships. That is what can help to raise our businesses in this area, and it helps to support international cooperation on the environment and innovation in this area. We would like to take part in this support and ensure that from time to time, however, in relation to what we have just considered, there are also proposals which could have the potential to create growth and jobs in this area. Following this proposal, it will be an independent board of directors from the industry who will have to make recommendations on who is now lucky to get these grants awarded. And we think it's a good idea, we're just somewhat puzzled that the appointment of these board members is such a purely government matter. In other words, the Minister designates his part, and then a number of ministries appoint the other part. So far, in this programme, we have listened to industry's attitudes in order to make sure that, from a technical point of view, a broad and good coverage, perhaps also geographically, of the interests of the environmental technology industry was provided. We are somewhat puzzled that, in an otherwise good proposal, this is a purely government matter in relation to who should sit on the board of directors. We are largely in favour of the proposal, but we would like to ask some questions as to why there should be that change in relation to the composition of the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155653	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115155659	We often talk about what we really have to live on in the future. And I think that a lot of us agree that some of what we have to make a living on is our great knowledge and our leadership position, among other things. in the green area. It's going really well. We export and create new jobs, and we must, of course, take care and continue to do so. Because there is no doubt that in the future there will also be demand for these technological solutions. For example: we are good at combating air pollution. A little year ago, I had the pleasure of being in China, and basically no matter who we met with and at what political level we were discussing, the Chinese leaders said that they were focusing on air pollution and that it was a demand from the people that something should be done about that. I could understand that, because we could see for ourselves that we could not see ha, have anything because of the smog that is above Beijing. So there is good reason why China has chosen to invest over 1 500 billion. kr. in the coming years, and of course we must ensure that Danish companies are included in, if we can say so, that some of the money goes our way. It hasn't come by itself. It may sometimes be difficult to come from what one might call research and good ideas, and then to invoices and jobs out there in companies. And in this situation MUDP can help some companies on their way and help make sure that it is actually translated into something we get crowns and ears out of. That is why I am very pleased that the Finance Act made the agreement that over the next four years 250 million will be set aside. kr. It is extremely important for the industry that it is multiannual and that there is a stable framework. It is a very good idea for us to have a board of directors with a strong representation from industry and a great deal of knowledge about environmental policy, because there are plenty of examples that we can reap benefits from cooperation between authorities, experts and saw them from companies. It is true that in some places in the central administration and in the Ministry of the Environment there are people with knowledge of what is involved in the international negotiations and what are some requirements we must meet in the future. And there, of course, it is obvious to go in and say to the crane that there are actually new openings and new opportunities here. And it is just as obvious that in the Ministry and the professional environments of the central administration, you need to hear what the industry thinks can be done and what works in practice. I have also visited a company in my own hinterland over in Østjylland, which makes wood-burning furnaces and which is very good at it. By controlling combustion in such a wood stove automatically, you can avoid a great deal of the pollution it would otherwise cause, and some of these companies do not lack much to get the last push and could actually make good money from being the best on their territory. I therefore believe that MUDP is the right way to go and I am pleased that we have created a multiannual framework. I'm also glad that there's going to be a professionalization of this program with a professional board. These are good examples of what we are going to live on in the future, and this proposal is a good example of how we can do something politically, so we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160021	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160025	Thank you. Very briefly: The Danish People's Party can support the proposal. We also think it is reasonable to try to help. Speaking of China, I've been on a trip down there, too. It was some years ago, but I remember that some of what puzzled me, and it still does so far away, was that the built houses, which were barely isolated, considering how long we have known insulation material in Denmark, can such things surprise me when I'm around the world. But it was such a small side remark. I think it's good. I will follow up on the questions which Mr. Henrik Høegh from the Left asked about the board composition, because it has also puzzled me a bit. However, we are generally in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160118	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lone Loklindt, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160125	The green transition is really important for this government, and it has to be said that the Danish companies have really seized the opportunity and in many areas they have taken the lead, in that they not only solve our environmental challenges at home, but in fact also through the development of products that can solve our tasks, are able to export solutions to the whole world. We have heard examples of air and wood-burning technologies that are being spread out, but there are also examples in the whole water sector, in the air sector and from other environmental policy areas that we have strong Danish companies that are exporting green tech or whatever it is called when speaking foreign to the world. But what is important is that it is not just about large companies. There are also many semi-large and very small companies that have smart solutions, but who have difficulty getting the products tested and tested in trials. That is why MUDP, the Environmental Technology Development and Demonstration Programme, is a really good solution for the companies so that they can have the last thing to do in order to actually distribute the product to not only a large domestic market but also for export. That is why it is very good that with this bill we should not think of anything new, because MUDP has already existed for several years, but now it is getting into a framework, so we are sure that it will be forward-looking with some appropriations that make an impression and will make it easier for companies to choose whether it is something to ask for whether they will spend time on it or whether it is too difficult because they do not know if it exists next year. It can be said that it is very important that politicians do not think that it is they who should point out what kind of product or company it is that can solve our major environmental challenges, but it is smart that we can point to some areas that we believe are challenged or where we have challenges, and that, like this, we can send out some signals that it is in the areas we are particularly calling for applications, because we can see that here we ourselves have the opportunity to do more, but we can also see that we could get a lever here for even greater exports. In this way, a board with political indications of the challenge areas to be put into play will be the right solution. I welcome the fact that there are also all kinds of positive notes from the other parties. The Radical Left can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160437	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160443	I'm glad we have some listeners up here, and maybe we're lucky enough to have someone sitting behind the TV screen watching, because there's not a lot of people in this hall, considering how important this bill is. I do not think it is an exaggeration to say that the SF has really fought for MUDP. Together with a lot of other good forces, we have really wanted to strengthen the Environmental Technology Development and Demonstration Programme, which the abbreviation represents. And why do we have that? I do not think that everyone in Denmark has yet realised how important the development of green technologies is and what it means for Denmark, also economically and in relation to jobs. Most people probably know that we are close to world champions in windmills, but it still gets away at most when you tell them that exports of green technology are bigger than pig exports and that exports are growing. In SF we are very happy with the Finance Act agreement with the government and Enhedslisten to statutory MUDP and establish a Board of Directors for the program. Now to put it in Jutland: it gives a clear signal to industry, utilities, investors and many others that we in Denmark want a green transition and allocate public funds over a long period of time instead of just filling up every year. This is the end of stop and go. In 2014, MUDP's efforts focused on water, climate adaptation, circular economy, recycling of waste resources, cleaner air, less noise, fewer chemicals of concern, industry's environmental efforts and ecological construction. These are areas where Denmark has a great deal to offer, both in the form of technological hardware and in the form of smart heads and strong skills in business. Public money attracts private funds and together it creates environmental progress and green jobs. SF will encourage the Board of MUDP to be composed in such a way that it becomes the wise heads with experience and competence in areas that become the target group for the selection, instead of trying to create a board consisting mainly of unnamed representatives of interest organisations in some attempt at a balanced mix of interests. I think that is also what the Minister has proposed, and it would be nice if we could perhaps hear more about the composition of the board. I think it's a really, really good day today. We fought both when we had to distribute research funds and when we had to make the green part of the Finance Act. I would also like to thank the Minister for this. It is extremely important for Denmark, it will mean billions in earnings, it will mean lots of new jobs, so it is a really good day today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160740	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160745	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance sees some solid business prospects in this programme and is, as a starting point, positive about the proposal. We have taken note of the very great interest in this area among companies and knowledge institutions, and it is of course beyond doubt that in the area of resources we generally have some positions of strength which can be further strengthened when, among other things, we have. the developed part of the world is growing. And here we very often find that the issue of testing, demonstration and direct testing on full-scale installations can be significant barriers to innovation work being also the subject of a market and really creating growth and employment. We may have some minor concerns about the overall coordination of efforts in these areas and very much hope that the board will be composed in a way that ensures a professional and economic overview of the activities that are taking place in the soon enormous green resources industry, as one might actually call it. All in all, however, this is one of the better proposals from the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160900	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115160917	Thank you. When we talk about finding solutions to our environmental challenges, not just in this country, but all over the world, of course, we do not escape the development of new eco-efficient technologies. It is incredibly important that the technology we are developing is becoming more and more effective precisely in terms of improving the environment. That is why there was also an ambitious Conservative Minister for the Environment who, a few years ago, set up a programme which this government has continued. Environmental technology is one of the areas where Denmark has been in the green jersey. Our small country has helped set the agenda, and we therefore already have many good experiences, and we have developed many products that we can be proud of. But that doesn't come by itself. This requires an ambitious and skilled business sector that can and can invest. It also requires a high level of research, and then it requires some politicians to back up and support the good initiatives. Since Connie Hedegaard's time, we have done this through this environmental technology development and demonstration programme, MUDP. With the opportunities that exist in MUDP, we make it more attractive for our companies to think new and take the lead in the development and production of innovative technologies that burden the environment less and less. And, of course, we also support not only the programme, but also the four-year perspective, which is now being talked about. In this proposal, we have to agree to the establishment of an independent board to decide on subsidies for companies and to set up different partnerships within the framework of the programme. Eight board members, the chairman and the three other members are appointed by the Minister for the Environment, and the remaining four are also appointed by the Minister for the Environment, but on the recommendation of the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building, the Minister for Food, the Minister for Business and Growth and the Minister for Education and Research. From the outset, this is also fine for us, but I have read some of the answers to the hearings and have also taken note of some of the comments that have been made. We therefore think, as others have already said, that perhaps we could discuss in committee whether we can ensure more broad representation on the board, both in terms of geography, as some mention, but also in relation to sectors which others mention. But the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115161143	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115161155	First of all, thank you very much for a very kind reception of this bill all around. Thank you very much for your excellent contributions, which show that there is broad support for our environmental technology development and demonstration programme. There is broad support for ensuring the long-term perspectives of the programme as well, and thus also support for the legalisation of the programme. Better environment, better health and, at the same time, more green jobs for Denmark are for me a win-win situation that MUDP contributes to for Denmark. More jobs are one of the government's top priorities, and environmental technology is an obvious area to focus on here. This is one of the cases where growth and a better environment actually go hand in hand. Green innovation creates green welfare and more green jobs. With tough demands, high ambitions and a favourable framework, we have developed Danish skills, know-how and solutions for example in Denmark for decades. clean water, clean air and a good use of resources, solutions that are increasingly in demand globally, and this means that Danish companies that deliver products and solutions in these areas can now meet the growth markets that are increasingly getting these needs, such as: China, Vietnam and Kenya. It is good for companies, it is good for exports, for growth and employment, and it is good for the environment and well-being both at home and globally. But global competition is tough, and if Danish companies are to remain among the best in the world, we must continue to be able to support the development of new technologies, prioritize the close cooperation between companies, research institutions and authorities on environmental technology. That is why I am very pleased that the 2015 Finance Act has succeeded in finding more funds for MUDP for the next four years and thus also in securing the long-term perspective for the efforts that companies have been asking for. With the Finance Act agreement, the total amount of the grant in the years 2015-2018 will be approx. 250 million kr. There is also a basis for establishing this in the legislative work of the MUDP, as we know from the energy technology development and demonstration programme and the green development and demonstration programme. At the same time, we believe that the MUDP programme will henceforth be managed by a professional board, which will be composed so that the 8 board members together have a broad insight into the environment, nature and resource area, as well as insight into business relations. At least half of the members of the Management Board are expected to have a professional background. With the bill it will be the board of directors who will award grants to the companies in the future, and in addition, of course, the board must also use the knowledge they have to ensure that MUDP funds create as many green jobs as possible and green exports as possible. The board builds on the efforts made by all parties in the Danish Parliament to support environmental technology since 2006. The interest of the companies is great. Since the start of the programme, companies' applications for funding for environmental technology projects have more than fivefold, and since 2012 alone they are almost doubling. MUDP must continue to prioritise the environmental challenges, so that, in addition to green export solutions, we also develop new, smarter and better environmental solutions to suit the environmental challenges we have in Denmark. For example: we are in the process of ensuring cleaner air for the Danes based on new air cleaning solutions for buses tested in the framework of MUDP. With subsidies from MUDP, we are well in the process of developing future waste water solutions where we reduce pollution while at the same time recirculating resources and producing green energy. Support has also been given for the development of a new type of wood protection where harmful chemicals have been removed and the use of fossil raw materials has been reduced. It is just to give some examples of what environmental progress we can expect from these funds. The list of exciting projects is long, and these are also largely solutions that we can export to other countries, as I said. The draft law states that the Board of Directors is preparing a four-year strategy for action under MUDP. This will give companies an even better opportunity to plan their participation in the programme. In addition, the Board prepares an annual action plan based on the priorities of the Minister for the Environment of the current challenges for the environment. In this way, I believe that a good balance has been found which ensures that the programme is strengthened with business competences, while maintaining the link with environmental policy. There is, of course, a good tradition for the parties of the Folketing to be able to make proposals for priorities under the MUDP programme. I would like to continue this tradition so that in future parties can also help to highlight the environmental challenges that the programme has to address. Strengthening MUDP is not only an investment in Danish environmental technology, it is also an investment in Danish companies, more green jobs and more green welfare. So thank you for the broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115161737	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115161750	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115161812	Thank you. The rental legislation must be one of Denmark's most complicated legislation. For decades, paragraphs have been added in the East and in the West. The opening of new rules has led to the difficulty of interpreting rental legislation even for experts, as the legislation currently stands. That is why I am delighted that today we have to deal with the simplification and modernisation of the rental law, on which the Left has put its clear fingerprints. Is this version of the lease law perfect in the eyes of the Left? No, of course not, but politics is a matter of compromises. We agreed to the negotiations with the aim of drawing the government in the right direction. The draft lease bill put forward by the government before the negotiations was wrong. There is no doubt that our participation moved the lease law in the right direction. It would be too far-reaching if I were to deal with all the changes that are being made to this proposal. Let me therefore just highlight some of the changes that I think are the most important: firstly, the adoption of the bill is the start of a process that will end with the signing of the rental law and the Housing Regulation Act together. It has always been strange that there are two laws regulating such a small area as this. It has therefore been a great wish of virtually all parties throughout the time I have been a housing rapporteur, and it is for over seven years that the two laws should be combined. It was therefore also of great importance to the Left that it was possible to set this process in motion. The combination of the two laws will make it easier to find the relevant paragraphs. In this way, the compilation of the two laws is a simplification in itself. The second point that has been important to the Left has been to help the many individual owners who get caught up in fixed-term leases. We have seen a large number of examples of individual owners being caught up in the incalculable lease law and having ended up in a situation where it was possible to terminate a lease contract. We're changing that now, so individual owners can terminate tenants at one year's notice if the owner needs to use the property himself. We have also ensured that small landlords do not have to be burdened with a lot of bureaucracy. Individual owners shall not carry out compulsory immigration and removal inspections. In addition, landlords of up to six homes will be released to make rolling maintenance plans. These are sensible exceptions which ensure that, as an ordinary citizen, you can rent your property without getting caught. With the lease act, the government proposed a new concept: normal rehabilitation. The government had set up a very limited definition, and we have ensured a more comprehensive definition of normal rehabilitation so that it covers all internal maintenance. At the same time, we must also see in the evaluation whether the change has had an impact on the maintenance condition of rental homes. It has also been important for us to ensure more transparency in the decisions of the rent board. It should be more possible for tenants and landlords as well as their lawyers to inform themselves of the case law in force. Nor should it be a secret that the Left would very much like to see a system where you could look up on the net what the square meter price for rental regulated apartments in different locations is. Finally, it has been agreed that the law will be evaluated in two years' time. This will ensure that any unintended consequences can be quickly captured. We must keep an eye on the area and ensure that the law works optimally. All in all, today we could have stood here with a red lease law that had shifted the balance between tenants and landlords noticeably, but Left took responsibility, participated in the negotiations and helped to ensure a better balance in the new lease law. And on that basis, the Left will vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162218	Thank you. There are a few comments, and the first is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162223	There are, after all, two results of a debate that you can have different assessments of. One is that the conciliation resulting from entering into a debate is moving in the right direction, that is to say that the legislation in Denmark will be better if it is amended in this way. And then there is the second result of the negotiations that something that was really bad has become a little less bad than it was a starting point, but is still bad. When you look at this with liberal glasses on which you probably have, when you come from Denmark's liberal party, it doesn't surprise Mrs Louise Schack Elholm that the landlords in Denmark feel that it's getting harder to be a landlord on the basis of this, while Enhedslisten is in the settlement on the other hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162319	I am quite aware that there are many who are dissatisfied with the bill; it is both landlords and tenants. Unfortunately, it is my experience that every time we touch the rent law and the housing regulation law, we end up in that situation. But that does not mean that we should not take things seriously, which is why I listen to what they say and take note of it. I think that some very good things have come out of this which I think are noticeable. I think that the compilation of the two laws is a huge step forward. I also think that this opportunity to cancel a lease when you are a single tenant is an enormous step forward at one year's notice, and I am sure that will benefit a great many.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162359	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162400	Well, there can certainly be points to individual elements. In particular, the fact that so-called amateur looters can be allowed to terminate at one year's notice, I also think is very good. But now it's the package we're looking at. And with regard to the package as such, does Mrs Louise Schack Elholm believe that it makes the legislation in Denmark better, or is it unchanged bad or good, or is the legislation in Denmark even worse? It might suggest that, when the landlords say that this makes it harder to be a landlord, while vice versa Enhedslisten, who wants a socialist revolution, thinks this is good legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162441	Well, the alternative wasn't that we weren't doing anything. The alternative was that the government's proposal had gone through and that had been a noticeable change in the balance. I think it is quite a good settlement that we have landed here. We think we've ended up really well. There are things in it that I don't like, and there are things that I think are amazing, and that's how I think it is when you make broad compromises. But we think it is good to wear work clothes, and we are well aware that we get dirty hands when we do it, but in return we also take responsibility and move things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162511	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162514	I understand from the rapporteur that she is pleased that there has been simplification, and in this respect I would like to ask her something. The rapporteur certainly noticed that at the beginning of the negotiations Enhedslisten put a great deal of emphasis on ensuring that this was one national law, so that no regulated and non-regulated municipalities had been established. Why does the rapporteur and the Left not support the idea that Denmark, as a small country, can settle for just one set of rules, just as we do not have different rates of pension according to what decision is taken in the local town council?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162601	After all, it is very funny that the rapporteur should ask me this, because what the rapporteur wanted was for all municipalities to be regulated, that is. that there would be increased bureaucracy in all municipalities, because the unregulated municipalities have less bureaucracy today. So it wasn't a regulatory simplification, it wasn't a debureaucratisation, it was an extra bureaucratization, because we would decide from the national level that all municipalities should be regulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162622	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162624	Now it is no secret that in a regulated municipality the rent is about 40%. lower, so with that there had to be a little bit of bureaucracy for me. But I would also like to ask another question. As far as the Left is concerned, after Mr. Søren Pind has been out to announce that he would rather have the free housing market, yet chooses to support the regulation law here, so it happens in the cooperative housing area that you will release the cooperative crown. I'm having a little trouble figuring out what it really is that the Left wants to have a more free market or more regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162707	Well, it's very clear what we want. So, we want cohabitation legislation now doesn't talk about cohabitation legislation here, there's more transparent. But as far as this whole rental area is concerned, we were out of the question from the start, and we have said this in every election since 1998 that we are not going to relax the rent regulation. However, we do not intend to implement any further regulation, as the Enhedslisten wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162728	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115162733	Thank you, sir. President. And I'm sorry about my voice, but there's been a little cold in it. Last year, the government reached a very broad political agreement on simplifying and modernising the rental law. That's the deal we're about to put into this bill. The changes have been needed. Since 1966 there have been no major changes in rental legislation. This is happening now, and it is good news for the country's 850,000 tenants living in private rental homes. For the tenants, the agreement means introducing compulsory immigration and removal controls, as we know them from non-profit housing. When you know the rent and the condition of both removal and removal, the requirements for rehabilitation become more transparent. This will reduce the number of conflicts between tenants and landlords. Today, one in five cases in the rent board deals with disagreements over the condition of the lease at the time of removal. By means of the agreement, we will also introduce normal rehabilitation in the event of relocation. This means that the tenant can no longer be forced to pay for replacement by removal, unless the tenant has directly breached the apartment. Unfortunately, we have seen examples in the past that some landlords have speculated about having the apartment renovated and have been paid for by the vacation tenant, even though the tenant has only lived in the lease quite a short time. This is unreasonable for the tenant and a poor use of society's resources. For the landlords, with the agreement, we have secured a number of administrative reliefs. We simplify the alert rules, we modernise the local representative's competences, and we make it possible to regulate the rent net. With the agreement we also take into account landlords of individual leases. They will be exempt from some of the requirements and then it will be cheaper for them to have the rental pre-approved at the rent board. Other initiatives in the agreement, which can be highlighted, are that we are implementing the Enhedslisten's proposal, on which rental and rental organisations have agreed in terms of simplifying the rental law. We implement rolling 10-year maintenance plans, we remove the duplicates in the rental law and the Housing Regulation Act and initiate work with a combination of the two laws so that the legislation becomes more transparent for the benefit of both tenants and landlords. Well 1 in 5 Danes live in a private rental home, so this is an important part of our housing market. It is therefore also very positive that we have broad political support for simplifying and bringing up to date legislation. I am also very pleased that a good balance has been found between tenants and landlords. The tenants get their rights strengthened, the landlords get less administration. With these comments, I should therefore like to inform you that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163103	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163106	Sir. Jan Johansen starts his speech by saying that this bill is good for the country's 850,000 tenants. What about the landlords? Is it good for them too? It is also not insignificant in the long term whether it is good for the landlords, because it is also in the interests of the tenants that there are some who want to be a landlord in Denmark. Otherwise, the consequence is that the number of rental homes in Denmark is shrinking because there is no business in having rental homes. It is important to have good conditions for those who want to rent housing in Denmark, also because it provides many rental accommodations from which the tenants can choose. So the question is, is this good for the landlords too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163157	Yeah, sure. When it's good for the tenants, it's good for the landlords too. The move-in and relocation vision means that the disagreement that has been there for many years will not become nearly as visible now, because now you have proof of it when you move in and when you move out. The simplifications we have made with alerts and modernisations etc. etc. And the administrative, has also done well for the landlords. So I am quite sure that the weighting that I also talked about in my speech, which makes both sides equally unhappy, makes us have found the balance in it. That's why I'm quite sure when this is done, landlords will be as happy as the tenants are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163239	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163240	So when the landlords today say they'd prefer this bill not to be passed, is it just because they don't know their own interests well enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163250	Yeah, or they haven't yet seen the consequences of the relief they're actually getting with this. At the same time, I also know that the landlords would like the market to be set free so that they could decide for themselves the rent for the demand. We know, and we have discussed this many times, including with the Liberal Alliance, that they want to set the rent free, but then there are no people in, for example. the big cities with general income that could live there, for then it was the ones with the money that came to live in the big cities. We want to prevent that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163321	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163321-2	Well, now it is very easy to call this a simplification and modernisation in the title and then just say in its rapporteur's speech that it is. But it is not only the landlords who are asking that we do not adopt this proposal, so do the tenants. Does it not impress the rapporteur at all that both the tenant side and the landlord side of the building, not to mention leading housing lawyers and employees on the rental boards, who also point out that this would be a complimentary piece of legislation? Wasn't it worth stopping sometime and saying that it may well be that we have called this a simplification, but obviously no one but ourselves thinks it is, including the people who understand it, and the people who have to live with this legislation forward-looking, both on the tenant side and on the landlord side?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163415	First of all, as I mentioned just now, the weighting was equal, because some of them were dissatisfied, and that was on both sides. But if you take into account how landlords and tenants have been sitting and fighting for 10 years just to agree on the points on which they have agreed and which we have also implemented in this, I think we have actually achieved a very good result. And now it's not all of them over on that side, that is, on the landlord side or the tenant side, who's really unhappy with this. It is one organization out of two or three organizations that is dissatisfied with it. But otherwise I have to say that where I think we all have to see that this is a simplification, when we look at that they were sitting for 10 years, and I think that they agreed on 22 points; the rest they had to withdraw. But I also think there is a simplification in it, and I really think we can see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163507	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163508	So that means that what is being welcomed today by the Socialist side is simplification. It is a well-known fact that there are many things in the housing sector that do not agree between tenants and landlords, but now it has simply been possible to make a bill that is so complicated and that provides so few answers on how things should be forward-looking, that tenants and landlords have finally come to a complete agreement, namely to ask us not to implement this bill. Then it could be that suddenly the consensus has emerged that we should take and listen to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163545	No, I do not think that is quite right when the questioner says that both parties agree that there has been no simplification. For it is one tenant organisation that does not agree with it, but it is on a completely different background. They really think that much more should be done in the field, which meant that the landlords did not get so many rights. At least that's how I read it. However, I think that we have achieved something, given that they have been fighting for ten years just to agree on 22 points. Now we have agreed in this Parliament that it is a simplification of the rental law, and when we get it written together and get rid of the duplicates that are, I think it certainly also turns out that even the Conservatives will be able to nod to it and say: hey, it was a simplification; we just couldn't see that at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163634	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115163640	Thank you very much, President. There will be a lot of repetitions when you are on as the third rapporteur. It is no secret that this process of simplifying the lease has been long, it has been tough, it has been complicated and it has been challenging. It was also the wish of the Danish People's Party that the parties, the landlords and the tenants found a common basis for proposals for simplifications. After all, they are the ones who know the daily challenges. The parties reached what they called the consensus list, and here it was the government's assessment that the proposals on the list were not sufficient in terms of aggregation and legal status. Subsequently, there will be a breakdown in the negotiations between the organisations, and then we will be called to negotiations at the Ministry. The Danish People's Party seeks influence where we can, and we go to negotiations when we are invited, with constructive suggestions and to find solutions. We did the same for these negotiations. We will also do so in the future when we are invited. The proposal provides for the protection of tenants from excessive bills for refurbishing by relocation, and it contains 11 elements to simplify and modernise rental legislation without distorting the balance between rental and rental interests. To reduce the number of conflicts between tenants and landlords when the tenant moves, a mandatory removal view is introduced. The possibility of refurbishing is abolished so that the tenant can in future be ordered to carry out a normal renovation by removal alone. This avoids unreasonable removal bills. I have to lean on Mrs Louise Schack Elholm because we fought together in these negotiations and stood together in the blue block to make this bill better. The third is that the maintenance rules for large buildings are simplified and modernised. A 10-year maintenance plan scheme is established to improve the overview of the maintenance needs of each property. The fourth is that, in order to make the administrative arrangements for landlords easier, the alert rules for cost-related rentals are simplified and modernised. At the same time, the rules on the competence of the resident representation are simplified. Penalties are also introduced for breach of the bounty rule, and there it was at least one of the wishes of the Danish People's Party that we had just tightened the bounty rule. Access to the pre-approval of the rent for landlords of individual ownership and cooperative housing is also made cheaper. You know, if you had to go to the rent board, it would cost $3,500. to obtain a prior approval. It's gonna be cheaper today. This is going to cost 500 DKK, and it will help the small unprofessionals, you might say, renters who may be in a financially unfortunate situation because they have rented their apartment out, where the tenant then subsequently pulls them into the rent board. We are very pleased with that. New possibilities for the net price index adjustment of the cost-related rent are introduced and agreed stairway rentals are replaced by the possibility of contracts for net price index adjustment of the rent. In order to provide greater security for the landlord, an extended access for landlords of an owner's or cooperative residence is introduced to terminate tenants with one year's notice if the landlord himself has to use the dwelling. There we also fought together in the blue bloc, the Left and the Danish People's Party, because we think this is a very good arrangement. What we also fought for together is precisely in relation to a combination of duplicates in the rental law and the housing regulation law, so these are removed and we get a two-phase process. We look forward to that too. Proposals shall be made from the agreement list of the tenant and landlord organisations. It is also important that what they agree on is put into practice. Last summer houses are then exempt from the rental law, and that makes really, really good sense. We also think in the Danish People's Party that we have got it in the right direction rather than what was there. We will always make our influence felt where we can. We always go constructively to the negotiations. We shall also do so in the future. We are very pleased that it will also be easier for individual owners. So there are some really good elements. It has certainly not been an easy process, but we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164115	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen as radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164126	Thank you. As you know, the draft law we are discussing today is the implementation of the agreement on simplifying and modernising the rental law between the government parties, SF, Enhedslisten, the Left and the Danish People's Party. The proposal also deals, of course, as several rapporteurs have said, with the many initiatives taken by the agreement, and from a radical point of view I would like to say that we are very pleased that we have taken up this work and we welcome the agreement that is now in place. It is clear, and several rapporteurs have also mentioned this, that not all the initiatives are equally satisfied from everywhere, and this is, in fact, evidence of several things, both the complexity of this area but also, and above all, I believe, the many and often very contradictory interests at stake. That is why it is true, as the Conservative rapporteur has said, that there are people who are dissatisfied on both sides, but I wonder whether they are dissatisfied immediately. I don't think they are. In the Radical Left, we really think that there is a rather balanced agreement that focuses on removing unnecessary rules, focused on removing this dual legislation, which several rapporteurs have also mentioned. We have reached agreement on a number of different initiatives, in addition to this consensus list, in addition to double legislation, and in addition to unnecessary administration and bureaucracy, which benefit tenants and landlords respectively. It is true, then, that when there are opposing interests between the landlord and the tenant, the landlord does not immediately see what comes to the benefit of tenants, as any particular great strength of the agreement. The same applies to the reverse situation. But we think that there is a fairly good balance in things. One example is the extension of the right to regulate the rent on the basis of a net price index and the simplification of the maintenance rules, and several rapporteurs have referred to the advantages for small landlords, which make their administration easier and provide security for them, while the proposal for this normal rehabilitation is an advantage for the tenants and, I think, actually a very reasonable priority, that is to say to restore what is needed rather than to have such a renovation per year. automatic. On the other hand, such a proposal for compulsory immigration and removal views can be categorized as something which actually aims to create a common foundation for landlords and tenants and is therefore something that can prove to be a common advantage. After all, it will also be the same for the items on the consensus list that we are now adopting politically. It is also the kind of thing that has been agreed on and on which I would think it quite crazy not to get anchored in an agreement. So all in all we in the Radical Left are satisfied with this agreement and are actually happy that many years of work in this area, including among the organisations on both sides, have actually borne fruit. So, of course, we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164449	A brief comment from Mr. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164452	I would like to put a question to the rapporteur on what the Radical Left's policy is on the question of terminating tenants, because now there is a slightly easier access. There has always been an opportunity to terminate a tenant whose landlord had to use the lease himself, but now I understand that the Radical Left Executive Committee has decided that there must be a very long period in which to terminate tenants for no reason. What is the Radical Left's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164535	But the Radical Left Parliamentary Group and the Radical Left National Executive are two different things. And we can sit down and talk about party structure, because I think we have two very different ways of solving things in our two respective parties. However, the Radical Left parliamentary group and I, as rapporteur on housing policy, are pleased with the way in which this has been achieved in our joint agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164557	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164558	Well, I'm so happy with that. But is it not a rather strange situation to be a representative of a political party when the governing body that sits there has a different attitude from that of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164617-2	Yeah, you could say that. But what also applies in a party I do not know if the questioner knows it from his own party is that there can actually be disagreement. Therefore, what the national meeting decides at some point, and what the main board decides at some point, and what the parliamentary group ultimately decides, and what it finds practically possible to implement, may well be three different things. And we're not sitting here looking at each other in a circle in the Radical Left until everyone thinks the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164650	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164653	Thank you. The radical rapporteur tried to make it sound as if it were just because tenants and landlords disagree on a number of things. But the fact is that both Denmark's Owners' Associations and BOSAM believe that this legislation is going to be further complicated. So, some of Denmark's most complicated legislation becomes more complicated. It is basically a problem, and does not give cause for self-examination at all, that we say, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that there may be some details we do not agree on, and that there are some things we would have liked to have drawn in different directions, but we agree on one thing, and that is that this is going to be much more complicated and that it will cost time, money, blood, sweat and tears, both on the tenants' side and the landlords' side, and therefore you should not do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164747	It is clear that, as rapporteur for housing policy, and as such, in the Radical Left too, I am interested in hearing the organisations in this area. And so are we in all other areas. After all, nobody says that we are done in this area, but it is just very difficult because the organisations want a lot of different things. Now I was just reading a press release from the Land Organisation of Leasing, and it is said that this agreement is two steps forward and one step back. And that is because one really appreciates some of the agreement's things, but is unhappy with some others. And I think that is actually the case in the vast majority of organisations. Now, I know it's not my privilege to ask questions from up here, but I would like to know if the monstrosity is the same thing you find to be more complex. Because I think it's obvious, and I think many of the organizations think that if you press them a little on the stomach, there are certainly things that become less complex. But then it may also be that you think that the things you don't like very much make life really bad for you, and that's why you say what you do. Of course, I have great respect for the fact that you, what can be said, are defending your interests, but that does not mean that we cannot then make political agreements in this area. I do not think the Conservative rapporteur thinks so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164912	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115164913	It is just striking that the storm is so massive and that it is also leading mercenaries who say that this is going to be a complimentary of legislation and not a simplification; that the chairmen and secretaries of the rent boards also say, for example, that they are going to be a complimentary of legislation. In relation to this thing of normal rehabilitation, or maybe I should say that no one really knows how we define it, what it means, and what it compares to. And I don't know if Mrs Liv Holm Andersen will promise me that before we finish this treatment, we will have such a clear impression of what it covers and how it is defined in the legislation that that part will not just create a number of conflicts on which we will be spending a lot of resources, both on the one hand and on the one hand and on the one hand and we will have to see that the employees who have to sit and deal with these matters are already saying that they can't see through these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165013	But that is clearly something we must work towards. Because I certainly do not think that when we have a system here that we are not satisfied with and that we would like to move to a place where we would be more satisfied with it, because it would be more reasonable and make better sense, we should not do so because it is complex. So I would also like to say that I think it is very incredible that the Conservative rapporteur is moving out with such a dull speech, but nevertheless hardly can point to a single area where the organisations on the common front say that it is getting worse and more complex. In any case, the Conservative rapporteur cannot have used her speaking time to do so. So maybe I think it's a little special.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165059	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165108	It is a good day for the tenants in Denmark. We are dealing first with a new lease law, which contains a number of progress for the tenants, and I would like to give a very concrete example. A man in Brabrand at Aarhus had lived in his apartment for more than a year, namely for 14 months. He had behaved quite plainly, not mistreated anything, but when he left the apartment after 14 months, he was shocked. He had to pay a full bill of 58,000 kroner. It is quite unreasonable that today a landlord with the law in his hand can claim as much as 58,000 kroner if you have only lived in the apartment for just over a year. This is because the landlord has the right to require the apartment to be refurbished, and it must then also be refurbished with paint, even if it is not necessary at all. The new lease law puts an end to the fact that the bill can be so big. The bill says that a landlord can only require normal renovations, as mentioned earlier, and that is something cheaper, and therefore not refurbishing. Therefore, the new lease law means that many thousands of kroner are cut by such a bill of DKK 58,000. This is a good step forward for the tenants, who will especially benefit the tenants who have lived in an apartment for 2-3 years. In the same good tenant-friendly direction, there will in future be a mandatory view of the apartment both when moving in and out. That is something that is the cause of many disputes today, and those disputes will in future be reduced when you have a mandatory view both of migration and of relocation. But there are also other points where the new law benefits tenants. For SF, it is extremely important that we keep some rents that people with small and low incomes can also afford to pay. After all, there are liberals here who want to give the rent completely free without any regulation, that is, without rent boards and legal rules. For example, that is what we think. Congressman, sir. Søren Pind from the Left, but it also means liberal fantasies like those of the Liberal Alliance. If their policies were introduced, the rent would be increased by an average of 20,000 kroner. per year per year, Apartment-- it shows an investigation. Too many tenants in a city like Copenhagen the rent would double, they would end up on the street put out of their homes because they could not afford to pay, and that would be quite, quite unreasonable. This wet liberal dream, which would harm the common man and woman, is guided to the ground by the new lease law. The rent regulation and rent boards have been preserved for at least 1 January 2020 with the settlement, and this is incredibly valuable to the tenants. Another step forward in the rental law is a tougher penalty for money under the table, as has already been mentioned, and if there are landlords who demand black money as a condition for becoming a tenant, the penalty is increased. The landlords are also required, as something new, to have made 10-year maintenance plans for the property in collaboration with the tenants. When the lease agreement was concluded on June 12, last year, the Ritzaus Bureau issued an exciting article entitled "The tenants call new lease a gift to the tenants. " That is a very good headline, and there is something right in it too, because there is some progress for the tenants. But the headline from Ritzau is now not a hundred percent truthful. We must say in the name of honesty that in the new lease law there are also minor points that benefit the landlords and not the tenants, and that is a pity, but that is life when a broad settlement is reached, with which there are also bourgeois parties. SF would have liked to have counteracted excessive rent increases as a result of modernisations in the lease law. Unfortunately, in buildings built before 1992, the landlord has an opportunity to modernise, which in fact triggers an entrance ticket for an almost free rental subsequently. These modernisations reduce every year the amount of housing, apartments that ordinary people can afford to live in, and that's really bad. One thing is that the bourgeois parties did not want to intervene against it, but it was surprising and disappointing that the Social Democrats and the Radicals did not want either. It's a political line on the part of the government that hurts the tenants. But okay, this is then a point that the SF will in future still work on getting implemented. Overall, the new lease law is a step forward and therefore the SF also votes for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165548	There are brief comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165552	Sir. Eigil Andersen does not seem to understand the value of a newly renovated apartment. The fact that an apartment is newly renovated is a value that some demand, because they think it is nice to come to an apartment when they have to move, which is completely refurbished, where the paint is new and where it smells nice and there is no smoke left in the apartment etc. etc. That's what you pay for. This is why some landlords announce that the apartment is refurbished. When you've lived there for a year, I guess it's not too much to ask that you can make a contract with the landlord that the apartment should also be refurbished. No matter what Mr. Eigil Andersen cannot see the value in it, so there are others who can, among other things. the person who demanded the apartment and moved into it because the person liked it to be a newly renovated one. Why must it be banned by Mr. Eigil Andersen? Why would Mr. Knox have to? Eigil Andersen meddle in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165657	Yes, it happens to be me, together with a majority here in the Danish Parliament, who are interfering with it, including a majority consisting of bourgeois parties, so there is a huge discussion going on in the bourgeois camp about this rental law. That's what we're gonna say. I believe that if you have lived in an apartment for a year as the tenant I mentioned from Brabrand in Aarhus, and have behaved quite normally, there will be no need for such a repainting of the entire apartment. I think it is an absurdity that the landlords, who have the greatest power here, today have the right to demand that there should be a new rehabilitation. That is why I regard it as a step forward. It is also a huge social waste, by the way, that some walls, which are in fact painted fine in advance, are being overpainted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165747	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165749	Sir. Eigil Andersen doesn't know what other people need. Sir. Eigil Andersen has his needs, and he must be allowed to have them, but other people have other needs. And there are some who have the need or at least the wish that they would like to move into a newly renovated apartment. They think it's more valuable than moving into an apartment that was refurbished a year ago. Therefore, there are some landlords who would like to offer newly renovated apartments, and when you move into it, you can today, before this law is passed, make an agreement with the landlord that it should be returned newly renovated. It may well be that Mr. Eigil Andersen thinks it's a waste of money, but there are also many things that Mr. Eigil Andersen does what I think is a waste of money. I'm absolutely sure of it. But why should Mr. Eigil Andersen make himself a judge of that? Just that, sir. Eigil Andersen has a majority with him here in the Folketing, is not an argument for his being right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165837	What the Liberal Alliance is missing, which is the big mistake, is that the tenants are the weak party here, and that means that today the landlord can make it a condition for you to have an apartment, that it has to be refurbished. It is simply an unreasonable burden-sharing, and there are many areas of society where we have to live with different things. There are some people who need to drive 200 km/h. on motorways, but they must not do so, because the speed limit says a maximum of 130. That's what they have to live with. And in this area, the landlords have to live with this rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165913	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115165916	How does Mr. Eigil Andersen saw that both landlord and tenant organisations believe that among other things. This refurbishing thing is a substantial complement to the legislation? Perhaps I should stress here that this is an example of something the organisations agree on, because I could hear that the radical rapporteur could not hear that I mentioned an example just before she wanted an example. In fact, it was an example that was asked. So this is an example. In addition to the fact that it is an example of this being thought by both sides, it is also the case that the chairmen and secretaries of the rent boards write that the question of what should be understood as a normal renovation should be clarified more clearly in the law. Is that something, sir? Eigil Andersen will do something about this, so this will not be a dispute where people need time, effort, blood, sweat and tears to find out what Mr. Eigil Andersen and others mean this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170011	Before it is presented as if all the tenant organizations in Denmark do not want this bill to be adopted, I think there is reason to say that the Land Organisation of Rents wants it adopted. That has not been said. But at least now I've said it because it's true. As far as normal renovation is concerned, it is a concept already known in the housing sector, for example in the general sector. A few modifications have then been made to it through the conciliation negotiations we have had, where the bourgeois people have unfortunately received a few concessions. But that's what they've got. That is why I believe summa summarum that when you see the definitions that are already in place, plus the additions that have come into the picture, I am convinced that they will be found out. Moreover, I believe that this proposal for a law on rentals has been taken into account in a number of ways. Some minor progress is being made in the area of simplification, but it is also the fact that there are current problems and unfairness in the housing market that are being resolved through this bill. So it is also a purpose that it has, and it benefits the tenants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170113	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170115	But see, in the same consultation answer it is clear again that they understand the fact that this is not a copy of the model in force in the general sector and that they do not seem to see the intention that refurbishing should be required if it is not refurbished. So seemingly, and as far as they know, etc., but thus no clarification of this. Is it not a problem when you agree that it is very, very difficult to understand? In addition, although some people, some tenants, and it is indeed the tenants who are happy to move into the newly renovated dwellings, they are actually the ones who have to live there asking for it here, Mr. Eigil Andersen feels that it is not a need. No, it may not be, and you may be able to live without it, but in addition to the fact that it gives some people pleasure in their daily lives that they move into these newly refurbished homes, this will also cost a great deal of jobs, I would say to Mr. Eigil Andersen. Danish Painters estimate that 700 people will lose their jobs just within the painting profession because of the law, sir. Eigil Andersen is about to complete. Are we happy about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170223-2	I am pleased that we have implemented an agreement on general housing, in which there is a lot of craft work. But I have to say that the Land Organisation of tenants, which represents many tenants in Denmark, is of the opinion that it is a disadvantage to have the current rule that reconditioning can be required, and it is also my view that this is the case. I think it is a pity that the Conservative People's Party is keeping out of this agreement, because there is also a plan for the huge work to be done to simplify legislation, in addition to the minor simplifications that are taking place on this occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170306	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Dohn, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170315	Thank you. It is true, as Charlotte Dyremose has already said, that the tenant organisations do not agree on whether this is a step forward. The two of them, Denmark's Owners' Associations and BOSAM, have turned their thumbs down, while the LLO, which is the largest, has said OK. For this. It is two steps forward and one step back, and that is exactly the dilemma in which we have to find the Enhedslisten, because it has certainly not been very easy for us to take this decision to enter into the conciliation, but I will end by saying why we did so. The optimum simplification was not achieved. As far as rent is concerned, there is still about 40 per cent difference between living in Herning or living in Silkeborg. In our small country we cannot have very different rules on the things that determine our cost of living. Nor can it be true that the protection given to tenants must be as different as those two rules, i.e. whether they are now regulated or not regulated. Another thing that also made it difficult for us was that while the government from the tower said that § 5 paragraph. 2, we have to get rid of 70 per cent rent increases, so it doesn't appear in the rental bill. And even though Enhedslisten has been out with two motions for resolutions, the government will not be with us and at some point will not be with SF either. But SF has become really, really good over time in the area of housing policy, and they are difficult for us to disagree with at the moment. So it's really pleasing. But at least we have to say that from the outset, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the negotiations between the parties, the so-called consensus list, should have been taken seriously was of course the view of the parties that there was some leeway from the Ministry's official work, so that the agreement that was postulated was not to be reached. On an absolutely crucial point, the question of rent regulation, the question of the setting of rents, the Ministry played in a whole new concept, namely the net price index. I have to say as rapporteur that I was really surprised, and I am still wondering where it came from and why it had to come in when there was agreement between the parties, both parties out there, that this point should not be touched. On the other hand, we have to say that the net price, with the limit, does mean that there is a requirement that the rent should be calculated according to the costs before and after, and we have to say that in Jutland, when we are supposed to be really fun over there, we say that VAT has not really been passed, but we can also say that the cost-related rent has not really been made through either. So now those who want to use net price indices as adjustment will at least have to produce a cost-based calculation. We see this as progress. With regard to relocation and relocation reports, I think it is impressive to see the landlord's organisations out in a huge play. Migration and relocation reports have been used in the general sector for a very, very many years. The general sector is cheaper to manage, they have lower administrative costs, and yet allow the landlord's organisations to come and tell about a large amount of money • the amount is so large that I can hardly accommodate it inside the head • it will cost to make such forms because there is a requirement of writing. But they need but it'll mean at least, and now I'm sitting on a couple of rental boards that we'll get rid of a whole lot of cases. It will be much easier to be a landlord, and it will also be much easier to be a tenant, because in future you will know the booth of relocation, and therefore you have a starting point to decide what the tenant should then be at Bones for when moving away. So I think it's a worse act we're witnessing there. Time passes a little quickly here, but I think I will mention roughly the same advantages of the law as Eigil Andersen mentioned, namely maintenance plans, intervention against bandits in suits, etc. One of the things I would like to mention at the end of this debate is, for example, that the rent boards in the unregulated municipalities must now decide on the size of the craft bill when it comes to relocation. They must also require rehabilitation. These are some significant advances that will benefit us very much. If I have to finish by saying why we chose to say that we are going into this conciliation, it was because at least at that time we would be nervous that the SF should be the backstop in whether to tamper with the regulation. Now it will be the Enhedslisten in the future, and now you can be absolutely sure that the regulation remains firm as long as this settlement exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170842	A brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170845	As you know, the Enhedslisten wants a socialist Denmark where there is no private ownership or free market economy. Instead, there is some form of joint ownership of the means of production and also of housing. When Enhedslisten participates in this agreement or this settlement on the rental law and will vote in favour of the proposal, it is probably because it is a small step • perhaps quite small, but one step • towards Enhedslisten vision about socialist Denmark. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115170922	So much of the political struggle currently taking place on the left is actually a defence struggle, and for us this is actually a struggle to avoid marketisation in this area. Our vision for private rental is that private rental should be phased out, and we actually have a very good instrument in the current legislation, because as soon as there is a sale of private rental property, it must be offered to tenants for takeover on terms of participation. And this is a really fine process of democratization, which has progressed very far in Copenhagen, and in the long term this will mean that we will have common houses, just as the general sector is a kind of common ownership. That's where we want to go. We want the speculation out of the home. You have to be able to own your house, but you shouldn't be able to make a profit renting to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171022	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171023	Yes, Enhedslisten wants the private rental of dwellings abolished, phased out, as Mr. Lars Dohn says. It is then a small step in that direction. Well, one cannot say that it will be phased out tomorrow, but it may happen in 20 years or in 50 years if the Enhedslisten progresses. So this is a small link towards a phasing out of the private rental, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171051	Well, as I've tried to describe, there's this obligation to offer, and especially in Copenhagen, it's been really good to get that popular takeover. I think the cohabitation is a very good form of accommodation. I myself live in a cohabitation, and it has been a good, democratic and speculative form of housing until the Left freed the cooperative crown with the help of the Liberal Alliance. But we would say that this is a very good and democratic form of housing, and that is actually where we are going. Because what happens when private people stand as landlords to a greater extent than just renting out a room is that there are dollar signs in their eyes, and then we get into a situation which is very often characterised by exploitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171139	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171141	I took note of Mr. Lars Dohn's comment about this leg span on the part of the Ministry. Is it to be understood that Mr. Lars Dohn suspects that the Ministry planned the collapse of these negotiations between the parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171201	In other words, there are available descriptions from both landlord and tenant organisations, which say that you certainly do not feel understood, and I also believe that you even go so far as to use the word leghold or something like that. So I do not know which forces have been going on in the ministry, but I think that the political fact that we are going to achieve no more than 22 out of 57 proposals is a great point in that direction. And I find that disappointing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171235	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171237	It seems that we may be able to agree on at least a small corner here. I want to ask you something else. Sir. Lars Dohn mentioned this because there is disagreement between the tenants. - Sir... Lars Dohn is making some progress on what the various tenant organisations disagree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171256	Yes, I think that where we have the great schism, for example. is where LLO like Enhedslisten places a great deal of emphasis on ensuring and storing the regulation while e.g. such a point as stairway rental agreements can now only be regulated by net price. This is considered by Denmark's Owners' Associations and BOSAM as a step backwards. There I have to say that it has not happened very often in my life that I have had a vertical disagreement with them, but I am right on that point at least. So there are simply different assessments of what is ahead and what is left. I think that is a rather awkward situation and I think that it also obliges the tenant organisations to engage in a joint dialogue on where we want to go with Lejerdanmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171351	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171401	Earlier in today's debate, some words have been said about being in negotiations and seeking influence and trying to do things better than they would otherwise have been. This has been said in particular by the rapporteur of the Left. That is why I need to point out that this is certainly also our way of working politically. That is why we were also involved in this debate. I didn't bring the calendar, but it was probably 4, 5, 6 weeks or something where we had regular meetings. So the day before the last day, I think it was, we had to see that the overall output of the negotiations would not draw Denmark in a direction that we think is better than the existing legislation. That is where we left the negotiations, after we had been in negotiations for 4, 5, 6 weeks or how much it was. That's what I think you should do. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If we do not think that income tax should be increased, and then there is a suggestion from the government that income tax should be increased by 10%, then we should not take part in negotiations in order to have the increase negotiated down to 5%. and then vote for the 5% increase if you are against increasing income tax. Then you have to vote against it. Otherwise, the government can fool us all all the time by just always reporting out something much harder than what the government really wants to adopt, and then we can come to negotiations, and then we can negotiate it down to what the government actually intended, and then we can claim that it has become much better because we have participated, and then we vote for a lot of legislation that we do not think makes Denmark any better, because the government has been so smart to threaten something that is much worse. That's not the way we work. We left these actions for three reasons in particular. The first reason is that it is now banned, that landlords and tenants can agree with each other, that the lease is refurbished and therefore must also be refurbished. The fact that there are tenants out there who really want newly renovated apartments must now be undermined by the fact that it is not possible to return a newly renovated apartment. It is forbidden to return a newly renovated apartment, and thus the landlord suffers a loss by doing this. The landlord can make up for that by simply charging a higher rent. Then the rent must instead cover that the apartment is refurbished to the next tenant, and if it is a newer building, it must also be possible within the regulatory framework, because the regulation of the rent is not so tight there. This may not be possible in the older building, but with the newer building it must be possible. We do not see why we should force tenants and landlords into such creative thinking about higher rents, when instead we could make a more real deal about what it is all about, namely that people take over a newly renovated apartment and hand over a newly renovated apartment. Then there is the introduction of compulsory immigration and exodus vision. We certainly do not object to the fact that there is a view of relocation, but again I would say: if it is something that tenants and landlords agree is a good idea, then they can just agree with each other. And if, for one reason or another, it is considered superfluous, today, when there is no legislation on it, they cannot have it. Now the majority of the Folketing with this law says it has to one size fits all. We've decided from in here that there's only one way to rent and rent, and that's with in- and out-of-port view. Then there is the introduction of rolling 10-year maintenance plans. Again, I must say that I do not understand why the Folketing should interfere in this. If the tenant and landlord can agree with each other that a 10-year maintenance plan is a good idea, then they can already do it today, and so it will be. In general, the legislation here reflects the fact that the Folketing will interfere in more than the Folketing needs to interfere in, and we think that is really, really a pity. We would like to have a more liberal regulation of the rental market in Denmark because we can see that it is difficult to be a landlord in Denmark. We can see that one rental property after another is sold as a cooperative housing association. There are fewer and fewer private rentals in the older building in the center of the cities, and we think that is a pity, because we know that some people are also looking for rentals. So we do not support this bill and vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171858	There are brief comments. It's sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115171901	I would like to tell the rapporteur how things really are going on out there in the real world when there is a relocation. Now I'm sitting on a couple of rental boards and have been doing it for a lot of years, actually for two millennia, and that's not even a lie. There it is that what the Ministry says is not 20%. At least not in Herning and Ikast, there is a question of reassignment; it is about 40-50 per cent, and in most cases it has been crossed by the fact that the apartment is refurbished and refurbished. But there is no report on it, and that means that the disagreement is quite clear when you move out again, and you do so on average after four years, and then we have the trouble: were all painted on paintable surfaces? It's actually really hard to establish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172007	I mean, in those boards, those cases where there are disputes are dealt with. It does not say anything about the large, large number of rentals where there are no disputes, despite the fact that we have no law to allow, for example. must be prepared for entry and exit views. That's it. There are all these many cases where there are no immigration and relocation views, but where things are going well anyway, because there is a good relationship between tenant and landlord, and because one can trust that an agreement is an agreement that is given hand etc., and because things are just running by themselves, which they do in most cases. But there must now be a move-in and relocation vision down on it, which increases the process and, in principle, leads to increases in rent where it is not necessary at all, because there is no need for a move-in and relocation view of such a specific nature as is formulated in this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172104	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172105	A moving-in vision will typically take an hour's time and a moving-out view roughly the same if there are no major differences. How could you manage such a business in a shorter period of time? For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. In fact, the rapporteur usually compares housing with cars, with a Mercedes, and I do not know what it will take an hour or so. So it's not in itself a crazy big investment for someone who has to make a living from renting out, that at each end of the lease you spend an hour's time on this purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172153	That is why it is happening in many places too, although there has been no legislation on it. It's because those places have been found to be a good idea. That does not mean that it is a good idea everywhere. There may well be places where the landlord is of a kind and where tenants are of one kind which do not need a detailed relocation report. Maybe they're related to each other, maybe they have mutual acquaintances. Perhaps that is what keeps them on the good path and makes sure that they do not cheat each other, because then they lose a good reputation in the neighborhood or in the family. There may be thousands of reasons why, in the specific situation, you do not need to have an immigration and relocation view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172240	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172242	Yes, it is clear that there is discord and discord in the bourgeois camp, because we have a situation now that the two great bourgeois parties, the Left and the Danish People's Party, are involved in this settlement, and then the two small bourgeois parties, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives are not involved. I hope that after the next elections there will not be a bourgeois majority, but unfortunately that can happen. If that is to happen, the four parties must agree on a housing policy. It's interesting how in the world it's going to happen and if you can. That is why I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance: will the Liberal Alliance live with this legislation, or will it be made a condition to support a bourgeois Prime Minister that this law should be amended?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172332	But the Liberal Alliance must live with it if there is a majority for anything in the Folketing. And there seems to be a large majority in favour of this, and the result of the elections would have to be much different from what the polls predict if that majority were to disappear after the elections. So I expect that after the elections there will also be a majority in favour of this, so we can hardly demand that a change be made also because an agreement has been reached that they should be made. In this way this is the case, as is the case with some of the things that the SF would like to have done, but where SF has ended up even adding votes to the opposite, for example. that there was a limitation on early retirement, etc. We can't do magic, but, of course, if the voters give us 90 seats, we're gonna change this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172422	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172424	So it can be said that the Liberal Alliance criticises this, but the criticism is no more serious than that one, for example. will not let this lead to pointing to a Prime Minister other than a bourgeois.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172441	But there is no point in pointing out Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister, because she also supports this. So all we could do was point to my party chairman, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, or on sir. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservatives who are not in this. And that may be tempting enough, but there has to be realism in everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172503	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's something to think about. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115172514	We Conservatives would very, very much like to support the simplification and modernisation of the rental law. That is absolutely unconditional. That is also why we were in the negotiations until we were told that if we did not like the smell of the bakery, we could go our way, and we were not called anymore. This was a pity, because we would have liked to have modernised an outdated lease law which is rooted in the rationalization and regulation of the Second World War. We believe that logic, clarity and transparency are required. But unfortunately this is by no means what this proposal brings, on the contrary. It doesn't help much to put it in the title, because unfortunately it's the content that counts. So I am not alone in saying that, even with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, for it is also the case that both Denmark's Owners' Associations, BOSAM, the Danish Property Association Denmark and Danske Ejendomsforeningen Denmark are two organisations on each side that have come together unconventionally to recommend us not to adopt this bill. They point out that it is complicating it will make the legislation even more complicated and it is completely unnecessary and it does not provide real simplifications that justify the great legal uncertainty that will arise. They think it will cost both tenants and landlords time and money. The same applies to the chairmen and secretaries of the rent boards, who point out that there are considerable problems, because the question of what is to be understood as normal renovation needs to be clarified. It is therefore the employees who have to administer the law if the Folketing adopts it. Regardless of the hearing from the rent boards, it has not been clarified, and why not, Mr. Minister? Then there are the mercenary specialists, like the lawyer Anne Louise Husen, who speaks of the proposal being rather a botch rather than a simplification. And there is a lawyer, Marianne Kjær Stolt, who writes that, unfortunately, the proposal does not provide for any substantive simplification of rental legislation or administrative facilitations, on the contrary, it introduces a number of new provisions which are not sufficiently clearly defined. It is therefore the lawyers' description of what a large majority in the Folketing intends to support. Yeah, I'm worried. The problems are picking up. There is normal rehabilitation as a completely new concept. There is the abolition of the freedom of agreement between tenants and landlords on how to maintain the apartment in which you live, i.e. the abolition of the possibility for adult people to enter into an agreement with each other. There are several formal requirements with strict sanctions in relation to the improvements in the properties, which may unfortunately have the result that private landlords choose not to upgrade the homes or to refurbished them. That too will be a disaster. Then there is the abolition of stairwell regulation. Again: Adult people are not allowed to agree with each other. It was a clear and clear way of regulating both parties in a predictable way. Finally, it has been decided to postpone the composition of the legislation. It would have been the only sensible thing to see and get it done, so you don't have to look in two places to find out how things are connected. But no, it is not yet; perhaps it will be later, who knows? Then there are also things that we entered into these negotiations to try to get through, and some of what we are quite happy about has been included here, among other things. In fact, at the request of some of us sitting in the conciliation circle until it collapsed completely and spoke for it, it is here that amateur looters who have inadvertently come to rent out their apartment, because they thought that you could do that, and then you could move into it yourself afterwards, should now be allowed to actually move into their own apartment. Then it turns out, when the bill comes into effect, that, firstly, it only applies to future leases. This means that people who are sitting with an apartment now and actually want to move into their own apartment are not allowed to do so in the future either. In addition, there is a criterion that you should have lived in the apartment before. I have had a pretty good example as recently as today from a gentleman who says that he bought an apartment some years ago. There was then one who lived in that and he would well, before moving in, respect that the lease one day had to end but it resulted in a letter from a lawyer and now years of struggle to move into the apartment the man had bought for the purpose of living in it. But no, that doesn't solve the bill either. So, unfortunately, even the places where it looks as if it could be a little better, significant problems remain, and people are not allowed to live in their own homes. I could go on. The bill does not have sufficient quality. It does not provide the simplification that the Minister had set as his objective, and it does not lead to fewer, but to more conflicts, and the Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173025	There are some comments, and the first one is from Mr. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173028	I would like to ask whether I am right in saying that when you make an agreement on the rental market, it is the rapporteur's starting point that it is two equal and equally strong parties that enter into a free agreement. If that is the starting point for rent legislation for the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party, then one basically disagrees with the philosophy of rental law, which is based on the fact that the tenant is the weaker party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173108	Lease agreements are made between adults of age, and I believe that you are neither infirm nor stupid nor anything else because you are a tenant. The situation is, of course, that, yes, we are faced with two different situations, we have to conclude agreements, and so on. This refurbishing is typical tenants who have asked for it, and that's why it's being offered by the landlords, because there are some who would like to move into such apartments. And it's grown-up, mature people who make these decisions together. They can't do that anymore. That is also why we wanted to contribute to the simplification of rental legislation. Compared to being thrown out on the street, for example. It is quite essential that you have a place where you have a roof over your head and therefore have some proper alert rules, and that is what we are quite prepared for and believe the rental law should be used to avoid depriving senior people of the opportunity to agree some things that both parties think are a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173211	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173213	It is precisely in this area that the current rental law provides that if a landlord wants to live in the lease, then he can terminate the lease with one year's notice. I almost said, what more do you want? I asked the radical rapporteur earlier whether she agreed with the position of the Radical Executive Committee that it should be possible to terminate without cause and at short notice. Where is the Conservative People's Party, if you could decide for yourself, where would we put the cut on that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173302	We believe that proper warnings should be given, and that is the kind of thing that the rent law should be used for. It's basically these basic things that the rental law was supposed to be used for. It should not be used to say that you should not make a staircase bed, because we do not think it is okay to agree that people can move into a slightly lower rent, which will then be regulated upwards, perhaps because you are a student and therefore only at a later stage can afford to pay the full rent. It is not because we think that adult people cannot find out for themselves whether to redeploy the apartment in one way or another, but we think that we should use the rental law to ensure that we do not get thrown out on the street from one day to the next and have no place to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173343	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173346	The rapporteur makes a lot of reference to the fact that there are both certain tenant organisations and the landlords who are opposed to the adoption of this bill. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether she has thought that the tenant organisations and the landlord's organisations only agree on one thing, namely that they do not want the bill adopted. But if they were to make a law, they could not do so because their wishes go in very different directions. If we take Denmark's Owners' Associations, which are located to the left of the renters' LO, who want the bill adopted, we can see that Denmark's Owners' Associations want something that gives the tenants many more rights, and the landlords want something that gives the tenants many fewer rights. So can we actually use the statement that they disagree with each other for something? Because if you put their wishes together, they would simply fight in different directions, and by that I mean that you cannot really use it for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173445	It is clear that, as far as some details are concerned, they are moving in different directions. But what is quite special here is what is at least agreed, namely that this complicates the legislation further and that the further codification of the legislation does not justify the simplifications that exist. So here we are in favour of agreeing that it is the same thing that is the problem. In addition, there is something else, and I really think we should take note of that too. If, regardless of whether they want to move in different directions, there is agreement that the existing is better than the new, even if you have tried to do it well, then perhaps we should say that it was not in the direction you should go and that then perhaps there are some things that are not right, among other things. These things both lawyers and rent board employees point out. It is simply also a question of the quality of this bill not being high enough, and it may well be that you had to end up with something that is not everyone's pleasure. I do not believe that we will ever have full happiness in this area either, but we will have to take note of the fact that there are so many people with so much understanding of what says that the quality of this is simply not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173601	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173603	I think that part of this dissatisfaction is also due to the fact that some improvements are being made to the tenants, which we in the SF like, and we are also very pleased that the rent regulation is being maintained. That has just been said as part of the reason why we are voting in favour. Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose also cares about the landlords, as regards the good rules for them, and she does not think that there is. Has the rapporteur thought that the landlord who no longer wants to be a landlord, for example? could put his money in something else? It could be an option if it's so hard for the landlords.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173642	See, that's the big problem, that if it becomes too difficult for the landlords to be landlords, they don't rent out anymore. And why is that a problem? It doesn't really matter to the individual landlord, for he can just choose to do something else, as Mr. Eigil Andersen points out. Those for whom this is a problem are the people who would like to have a rental home to live in, because that is where the problem arises. The problem arises if no one wants to rent out housing, because then there is no housing to rent, and that will therefore be a much bigger problem for the tenants than it will be for the landlords if no one wants to rent out anything. Therefore, it is quite essential that we all take a little care that these things work for both sides. Otherwise, this market isn't there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115173744	I would like to start my speech by thanking the conciliation parties. I would like to say that, at least in the 17 years I have been a member of the Folketing, this is probably the most complicated legislative proposal we have changed and made more simple and improved in the areas we have. It hasn't been easy. I would like to say, and it is also clear from the rapporteur's speeches today, that everyone has had to give and take, and everyone has had their mark on it. I would like to start by saying, when this is the first time since 1966, that we are modernising Stauning's temporary lease law, that we have written the regulation law and the lease law together, that when we did not write it all together now, as I think we all had a wish, I too, it was because our lawyers, the country's most important home lawyers, advised against us doing it at once. Therefore, we took out the duplicates, which is why we add new elements and remove a number of complicated things that simplify the rental law, and then we write it together over 2 years. You have an influence on that if you want to be a conciliation partner. I think Mrs Louise Schack Elholm said it so rightly here that it is clear when you make broad compromises and take responsibility for something as important as the rental law, which is one of the bearing stakes in our welfare society, then you cannot get everything through. I couldn't get everything I wanted through either. We had to compromise on that. And that is what is really the prime characteristic of the people's regime, namely that we are able to resolve very complex issues too about some of the most important, indeed the second most important, after the choice of partner, namely one's home. I would therefore also like to say that I have emphasized in the conciliation we are making in this area that there is broad support. I think it was sir. Ole Birk Olesen, who was asked if he would change it. He had to say that there was probably no majority in favour of this, almost regardless of how the elections would go, compared with who will be in government next time. I have to say that we have an ambition to continue, but we must have a majority in favour of it. And it is true that it has also been one of the purposes of this, namely to ensure that there was broad conciliation about something as important as our home. So I would also like to thank you for the constructive debate that has taken place and the many positive comments that have also been made here at the first reading. I would also like to say that, for once, I would like to pay tribute to those with whom I have made the compromise. It's a great result we've come through with. The bill is, after all, a settlement of ours. It is so wide that it ranges from Enhedslisten and Socialist People's Party to the Left and the Danish People's Party to simplify and modernise rental legislation. I would like to say that we, who remained at the table in the conciliation circle, stressed that this was a whole series of initiatives which, overall, do not upset the balance between tenants and landlords. At the same time, there has been agreement that it cannot apply to every single proposal that needs to be balanced in the individual proposals but, overall, there should also be balance. I think, as the debate has also shown, that the 11 main elements that are included may receive the largest contributions from the tenant side • some of them • while others are of the greatest pleasure to the landlords. After all, the hearings also show quite clearly what you can see if you have taken the trouble to go through them, that the organisations believe that none of the proposals is at all in favour of the interests they provide for a number of them. On the other hand, criticism of the proposals that meet the interests of the other party has not been spared. I actually take this as a very good expression of the fact that the bill has struck the right balance between tenants and landlords. The proposal will, of course, open up the modernisation and simplification of the rental sector which has long been desired, both politically, among tenants, landlords and other users. I have to say that after ten years with the previous government, where we were unable to carry out that task, with the committee that sat where we could not agree and did not really agree when we had to go to the next stage, we politicians had to take an initiative here, because I do not think we could continue to look at the fact that we could not agree on what was agreed. So I think that the simplification, the modernisation of maintenance, the warning of an increase in costs, the competence of residents' representatives, the extension of the right to regulate rents according to the net price index, is one of the real promises. However, in some places the proposal for compulsory admission and removal has also met with the objection that it entails increased burdens for the landlords. I think that makes things clearer. It creates less opportunity for dispute, and it ensures that you know what it is you receive as a tenant, and you ensure the landlords what they rent out. Sir. Lars Dohn explained it so well because he is a member of a rent board and knows the many disputes. We just have to say that there are approx. five times as many disputes in the private rental area as there are in the general area where it is known here, which is mandatory. But it is also common for the large professional landlords that they already use these visions systematically today. And among several of the smaller and unprofessional landlords, it is the case that you show the apartment to a tenant, and you see it by relocation. So you don't just do it for the tenants. You actually do it because it can answer itself as they say over in Jutland. In other words, it also means something for the money, and the view allows the parties to determine the condition of the lease and to reconcile expectations of what the tenant will have to repair in the event of relocation. In this way, the parties avoid a number of conflicts which can otherwise easily arise when establishing the state of the apartment. I believe that the proposal is both for the tenants and for the landlords. There has then been some discussion that normal rehabilitation is a concept that has never been there before. I think it is particularly Mrs Charlotte Dyremose who has tried to cast doubt on it. I have to say that normal rehabilitation is, in fact, a concept that exists in today's rent law, and today, under private rental law, there are two models of renovation at the tenant's departure. In fact, there is normal renovation, and then there is reconditioning, and it is based on a special agreement on it. The proposal does not introduce new concepts into the rental law. It is merely an opportunity, and the opportunity that has been given to agree to a renewal, to disappear, so that only the legal basis is left, namely the concept of normalisation, and that is a simplification: instead of two, there will be one. This means a great deal, and I think that the assumption that there is a lot that would like to take over a newly renovated lease must be based on some misunderstanding. Because no one wants the huge bills they've been given after the relocation. We have heard of a lot of cases of huge relocation bills, and we are now avoiding this by abolishing the possibility of rehabilitating them. On the other hand, there are two concepts left: maintenance and default, and we have spent some time in the conciliation circle in order to settle this, so that defaults will of course have to be corrected if this is the case, and normal rehabilitation has been introduced as new concepts in iron and metal, so that we have extended the concept of normal rehabilitation, but it is not new. I would also like to inform the bourgeois parties that they have taken this on board. In addition to this bill, of course, we're going to make guidance material, so you know what this refurbishing concept is all about. But I have to say that this is not a new concept. Nor should I conceal the fact that it has been a challenge to modernise the rules on maintenance and rehabilitation. The rules in force are complex and incalculable, and that is why I am pleased that we have had simpler rules. This gives the tenants better protection against unfairly high relocation bills, but I would also point out that we have abolished a large number of rules, which the landlords called trip wires, that is to say rules on conditions of validity in which there was no real content. We have abolished the requirement to provide maintenance accounts for the warning of cost-related rent increases, and we have also simplified the rules so that the requirements for a valid warning are clear and clear. Finally, we have designed the possibility of regulating the rent according to the development of the net price index, and this is a method which is considerably simpler to deal with for the less professional landlords. I would like to say that all in all we have come to a very good conclusion and we have come to a very good conclusion about the problems that we need to resolve without distorting the balance, including the economic balance between the parties. In fact, I look forward to a very good committee work with a less complicated rental bill than what was already in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115174629	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115174633	Thank you. I can understand that, sir. Lars Dohn, that this phase-out of private rental is an essential goal of Enhedslisten. I would like to know if the Minister shares that ambition and if he does not, if he does not, if he does not, whether there is any reflection on that ambition on the part of the Minister. Lars Dohn may think that this is a step in this direction. In relation to the fact that there are certainly no new concepts in this bill, I would say that the employees of the rent boards just do not agree with that. Because they say that they understand the law and the comments in such a way that this is not a copy of the model that applies to the general sector. Will the Minister see to it that this bill is established, what the Minister means by this concept, so that the employees who have to deal with it are not in doubt?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115174730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115174732	In other words, it is well known that the Social Democracy and Enhedslisten are two very different parties, and the Conservatives and Social Democrats are also two very different parties, and we have no wish that we should not have the diversity we have in the housing market today. We are very pleased that there are also private landlords who build new buildings, it may also be pension funds, and it may be others. But what we do not think is reasonable is that if the market is merely to advise that the regulation should be abolished, for example, as several of the parties have spoken about today. We must ensure that ordinary people can live in our larger cities so that the rent is reasonable. And I understand that the Conservative People's Party would like to get rid of that regulation. But private rental can be an excellent alternative, and there are many people who have put their savings in this, also ordinary people who have a small rental property, and I think that is excellent. And that you can rent out an apartment if you have a two-family house, etc., is quite fine. May I not say that it is in fact the case that normal rehabilitation has been the main rule, including in the private rental market. Then there has been an opportunity to arrange for full renovation. Many people have not known; at least I have talked to many young people who have come into contact and have had to pay very large removal bills. And there are also in the private rental market stalled vessels, and some of them have even been convicted • I know a few of them for taking uncomfortable tenants and for not following the rental law. That is, of course, unreasonable, but that is the way it is. That is why I think it is a good thing that we are now abolishing a concept which can give rise to many disputes and which has made a lot of people unhappy because they have had to pay very, very large relocation bills and that we are now ensuring a proper legal situation in this area. We know it from the general sector and, in my view, it has not actually led to a falling standard of maintenance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115174911	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115174912	But now the assessment by a great many parties is that this new concept will lead to more disputes, so not fewer disputes, but more disputes. It is tenants and landlords, it is lawyers, and there are also doubts among the employees who have to sit on the rental boards with it. I am aware that I will not convince the Minister of anything at all here; I have tried that for a very long time and it has been a little hard. But could we not at least reach the point where the Minister is trying to get some comments into this bill so clear that we are not sitting out there fearing that this means more disputes? One could almost have some suspects to think: Uhadada, that was a good thing, then we get a little more to fight about. So, please, Minister, let us at least ensure that the organisations and the lawyers and the employees of the rent boards who are in doubt about this are in no doubt at all when we are done with this legal procedure. Well, then we've made it a little bit. I would like to end by asking the Minister: if this bill leads to a gradual phasing-out of the private rental market, is that something the Minister is going to do about?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175026	That's a lot to have to answer. But may I not say that it doesn't impress me very much when residential lawyers who live on this think there should be doubt about it, because they live on it. However, I would like to say that there is a lot of work to be done to incorporate these new rules, and that is why we will also make clear and clear guidelines. And we will also be available to the rent boards, and we will ensure that good guidance comes out. But the concept of normal rehabilitation is not so terribly difficult to understand and then comes with a tread iron, so even a blacksmith as I understand it. So it doesn't have to be so terribly complicated. It is, of course, important that we get it across and that we discuss it, but in the case of lawyers it is almost professional that they should mean it about that part of it. Can't I just say that I don't have a relationship with how many private landlords there have to be? It is different what you invest in; some great professionals do it a lot, and for a time it differs from it. But I think it is important that we have private rentals on the Danish housing market. This amounts to approx. 20% Today, and I predict that it will continue to be about that size.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175126	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175128	The Minister, like the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Jan Johansen, also made earlier in the debate that the fact that everyone is scolding over this change of law is evidence that the right balance has been found. Well, the more obvious conclusion and documentation is that it's actually a really bad law... that's why everyone's yelling at you about that • you'd normally think about that. Because you could imagine if the government made a really bad bill that no one could see any idea at all that they would go out and say it is a really bad bill. So is the Minister perhaps open to the fact that this bill actually complicates the meeting between tenants and landlords, so that they can say in common interest that this is not a good bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175221	I would like to say that the fact that the tenants have a large number of points where they think too much has been given to the landlords, and the landlords think there are a large number of points where too much has been given to the tenants, is not proof that this makes the bill more difficult. But these are common conflicts of interest where we cannot agree between these two parties. They sat for 10 years for 10 years and could not agree on a few minor points. Those were not the main points and we could not agree when we came to the further stages of it. That is why it was necessary for us to take the decision that we would now take a political stance on it. We have included the important points in this bill. So I would like to say that for me it is not evidence of that. Then I would just like to say briefly that conflicts between landlords and tenants are being reduced by the fact that there will be a mandatory immigration and removal view, the possibility of rehabilitating by relocation will be abolished, so as not to get the large bills that the maintenance rules will be modernised will become simpler, with 10-year action plans. I know, sir. Ole Birk Olesen was against it, but now we make sure that those who didn't do it before do it, etc. We are making it administratively easier in relation to the alert rules. These are simplifications that can be understood and felt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175325	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175328	But it is true that when we have a landlord here and we have a tenant here who has to come together for an agreement, and then there comes legislation that makes this agreement more difficult to conclude, more costly to conclude, then each of the two parties has a legitimate interest in that bill not being adopted because it makes the meeting between the two more difficult. That then brings me to a question, because I think it says that this will lead to rent increases. At least it has been in the papers we have had during the negotiations, and perhaps it will also be in the final legislative proposal. For there is a cost associated with it for the landlord and the cost the landlord can pass on to the tenant. And that could be the reason why neither tenants nor landlords think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175422	May I not say that I think, sir. Ole Birk Olesen underestimates all these many talented rapporteurs, how many of them have been working in this area for a number of years. After all, a compromise has been made, and I admit it, where it has been given and taken all around, and both sides of the table have been accommodated so that there is a common balance. However, there is in fact a great deal of agreement, and this has also been heard today, that in this draft law there are some simplifications, there are clear improvements in it and we are working on it. We have looked each other in the eye and said that this is so complicated that we evaluate it after two years so that we can follow what Mrs Schack Elholm also said. It is clear that it is not the case that it is something that is god-given, it is given by people, and we can of course change that again, and that is why we have also sat down with a large number of points where we evaluate and follow up on it. So I think it's a clear undervaluation from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's side of the rapporteurs and the parties who have worked on housing legislation for many, many years. In fact, I think that today we should congratulate ourselves on this very good legislative proposal, which simplifies, modernises and uses a whole series of new elements that make it easier in the housing market and that there are clearer and simpler rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175530	Yes, and congratulations were then the last words of the Minister in this round, and thanks to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150115175547	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 16 January 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
