ParlaMint-DK_20151117130009	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117130013	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117130031	Thank you. The night to Saturday, Paris was subjected to one of the worst terrorist attacks in recent times, and we are all still deeply affected by the events of the weekend. Many of the cashiers we normally have in this room suddenly seem so small in context, because the attack in Paris was an attack on our values, on democracy, on freedom, and on humanity. I would like to take this opportunity today to thank everyone across the daily divide for having shown sympathy and solidarity with the French people these days. Thank you very much for the many statements that have been made from all sides about the importance of our standing together in a difficult time. It doesn't make the problem go away, but I think it means a lot even. On behalf of Denmark, I have my condolences to President Hollande. I have also made it clear, and would also like to do so here today, that Denmark will continue our unwavering participation in the fight against the terrorist group ISIL. The international community is united in a strong condemnation of terrorist acts. The Heads of State or Government of Europe have said that the attack in Paris is an attack on all of us. We stand with the French people and the French Government. It is also the declaration of solidarity issued by the European Union's defence ministers who have just met. We must fight extremism, we must fight terrorism. But we must also avoid jumping to conclusions. We need to be open about the risk, but we still need to keep our heads down, for example. in assessing the risk of terrorists hiding among the refugees who come here. We must be careful not to create a general suspicion. In reality, that is exactly what the terrorists want: to create destabilization, to strike a wedge between people. I think we all have the question: could the same thing happen here? And unfortunately, there is no guarantee against terrorist attacks. The terrorist threat to Denmark is serious. It was before the attack in Paris, and it continues to be. Our authorities are very attentive and follow the threat picture closely, cooperate with the authorities in other countries to investigate and prevent terrorist acts, and after the attack in Copenhagen in February, the then government took the initiative to strengthen the authorities' ability to prevent future attacks and to secure the necessary resources. A very broad agreement was reached on a solid response to terrorism. It was necessary, and it was responsible. We currently have three draft laws on the protection against terrorism before Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to call on them to take advantage of this opportunity. This applies to the proposals on access to air passenger information, on treason and on the possibilities for defence intelligence to obtain information about Danish people abroad. But we're not in the finish line. The government is working on new legislative proposals that will further strengthen the overall defense. These are measures to combat radicalisation in prisons and to counteract participation in armed conflict abroad. In addition, we are currently negotiating a new multi-annual agreement for the police. I expect that we will soon be able to reach a broad agreement, and I hope that we will be able to strengthen the police in the course of the day. One of the areas for which it is important to prioritise resources is precisely the intelligence work, because we must strengthen the fight against terrorism. Unfortunately, there is a need for this. On a very, very unfortunate and tragic basis, we have confirmed this once again. We must stand together to look after Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117130454	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, the questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. I would very much like to call for the speaking time to be taken into account so that everyone can reach it within the agreed time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117130518	Thank you for that and thank you for the Prime Minister's statement today. Not least, the very last message I would like to say is that we Danes must stand together when the crisis scratches, and it does when terror hits Europe. I think I speak on behalf of all Danes when I say that the terrorist actions in Paris have shaken us all. Again, Europe is exposed to bombs and bullets; many people have lost their lives, even more are injured, and hundreds of French people have lost their loved ones. The attack on Friday is the worst attack on France since World War II, and when France is attacked, we Danes are also attacked. In my view, the situation calls for the heaviest seriousness in this Parliament, and it must also strengthen us in several things: firstly, words do not do it alone. We are up against an enemy who wants darkness where there is light, hatred where there is hope. Secondly, it shows us that radicalised Islamism is the greatest threat of our time. In less than a year, terrorism has now hit Europe for the third time. A few days ago, many people lost their lives in Lebanon, and children and adults are being attacked in both the Middle East and Africa. And thirdly, we Danes will not allow anyone to strangle open and free society. Our values are strong. Social democracy's support for engagement against the Islamic State is well known. The same is true of our desire for strong police and intelligence work, and we insist on strong action against any trend towards radicalisation in our society. At the same time, however, it is vital that we stick to what separates us from the others. And before we move on in this Question Time, I think that there is no political support for the statements made by the President of the Foreign Affairs Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Søren Espersen has come along, but that in Denmark of course we are behind and respect the laws of war and that children can never be the target of a Danish military effort. I do not think that Mr. Søren Espersen's statements may represent Danish foreign policy, and I would like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with me on that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117130745	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117130748	Thank you. First of all, I would like to sign for the main content of the debate on the issue. This was a very clear statement, which naturally follows on from the position held by Mrs Mette Frederiksen until recently as the country's Minister of Justice, namely a very clear statement that we must take responsibility and that words are not enough. It also gives me hope that later today we will hopefully be able to reach an agreement on how to scale the police. In relation to the question, I have noted that Søren Espersen himself felt the need to clarify the statements that fell. I have noted this with pleasure, because I can say on behalf of the government that, when we participate in military operations, we do so on a basis of international law and with a great deal in mind to hit our counterpart and, as far as possible, avoid civilian losses.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117130905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117130907	I would like to sign for the words of the Prime Minister, but also to make a very clear request that those words should, of course, fall from the country's government at an earlier stage, because in the situation we are in now, the eyes of the outside world will also rest on us. As I said before, an attack on France is also an attack on us, and when the French today advocate that the international coalition must take greater, including military, responsibility for the fight against the Islamic State, then I agree with that view. Words aren't enough. Just as important it is to make it clear, just as important it is that both we Danes and we Europeans are perfectly clear in our communication, including to the peoples of the Middle East. We're on their side. The Islamic State is not only an enemy of Denmark, of democracy, of freedom and of Europe; it is an enemy of all humanity. Therefore, the statement that Denmark will be ready to bomb children and women is just not the right way to tackle the task or to communicate. So let us agree that the Danish values of freedom and democracy will prevail again, but that at the same time we recognise that, unfortunately, words no longer suffice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131028	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131030	Thank you. As far as the position of the government is concerned, there is no ambiguity whatsoever about it, and that was also part of the communication this weekend. This is perhaps also an excellent opportunity to get the proportions into the debate, because it is not at present a question of Denmark bombing. We've delivered an F-16 contribution. We are strongly committed to them being re-issued and open to discussing the terms of reference under which they are to take place, in other words, in principle also open to whether a bomb can be bombed in Syrian airspace if it is needed at the time when we are ready for a re-shipment and if there is a need for a re-shipment. Before we now and I do not feel that it is between the questioner and me, but in other words wider in this Chamber, speaking out disagreements, I think it is important to send the signal to the world community that action should be taken. There has been so little progress in a process in Vienna, and the pious wish we could all have is that those who have the key to resolving the conflict, and in the end it is not a military key, taking out that key and unlocking the conflict, so that the discussion that has taken place this weekend on the extent of a Danish F-16 contribution remains an abstract or hypothetical discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131206	Yes, please. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131208	With this absolutely necessary clarification of Danish foreign policy, we now have the Prime Minister and I the opportunity to also spend the remaining time here in Question Time to deal with some of the domestic political issues that will naturally arise in the wake of such a cruel terrorist attack as what we saw in Paris. We are already working together on a number of legislative proposals relating to the fight against terrorism, and I, like the Prime Minister, would like to call on all parties of the Folketing, including those who do not have a tradition of it, to back up the legislative proposals, so that we have the strongest and most effective protection against terrorism. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister here about an issue which is very close to my heart and on which I think we need to focus much more: the presence of what can be called hate preachers in our society; extreme, religious, darkened forces that come here often from other countries; who use the pulpit, the platform to convey messages that go against our democracy and our freedom; who radicalise children and young people; and who create deep divisions in our society. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is a problem that we will have to address together in a completely different way than in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131320	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131322	I'm one hundred percent as in 100 percent. After all, it is incomprehensible that people choose Denmark and use our freedom of expression in order to actually break it down in the long term, using our freedom of expression with the ambition of creating a caliphate that would stop the rights on which they can preach their evil. That is, it may be said, the dilemma of the rule of law number one, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen is also very familiar with this, because until recently Mrs Mette Frederiksen was sitting as the country's Minister of Justice exactly in this cross-section between the freedoms of the Constitution and the political ambition to act against it. I can assure the questioner that, within the framework of the Danish constitution, we are prepared to go as far as we can to take a fight with hateful preachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131426	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131428	Now we're getting closer to something that might be really interesting. For the radicalisation that we have seen in France now, as we have seen in Belgium, and which we experienced in Denmark in the worst way with the terrorist attack back in February, the internal and internal radicalisation of children and young people here is one of the greatest terrorist threats of our time. And the fact that we have people among us who are allowed to come to Denmark and are associated with one of the Danish mosques, and who use that platform to incite hatred against our society, against our Jewish population, against people who are homosexual, against women, against democracy and freedom, we have to deal with in a different way than in the past. As Minister of Justice, I managed to get a job started. I didn't have time to finish it, because the parliamentary elections were held and I would like to ask the Prime Minister how that work is going. My suggestion is that if, for example, a preacher of hatred appears in London with undemocratic, radicalised ideas and ideas, he should no longer have free access to travel to Madrid or Berlin or Copenhagen or to the Grimhøjmosque. We need to put in place a defence so that no one can simply invoke the freedoms and use them to undermine and undermine the most precious thing we have. For these are the forces that, with their speech and their thoughts, undermine our ability to receive a free Denmark and a free Europe. Therefore, a specific question: can we meet each other on the question of much more tangiblely addressing the hate preachers who are helping to undermine the very foundations of a free and viable Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131635	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131637	Thank you. I can very easily give a commitment to that in terms of attitude. After all, history cannot be rewritten, but I can easily see that if the then government had put forward some proposals in the direction that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is now proposing, my party, including when we were in opposition, would have been open to it. Such proposals did not come, and I am not saying that to be polemical. But I am saying this in order to emphasise what I said before, namely that we need to find a way to deal with what is a real dilemma: that we live in a community of law, that we pay tribute to freedom of expression, the freedom of assembly, that is the boyfriend we have; that is what was attacked at the weekend in Paris, just as it was attacked in Copenhagen in February, and then we have to deal with it, yes, excuse my Danish, almost perverse challenge, because some people are precisely using these rights to spread hatred and work purposefully in order, if they succeeded, to get all these rights to erode. This is a dilemma, and I repeat myself when I say that as far as we can within the framework of our constitution, we are prepared to fight it. We are in the process, also with some of the decisions that were made in political agreements prior to the parliamentary elections and which are now to be crystallised, to build competences widely throughout Danish society, 3,000 professionals who gain more knowledge about anti-radicalism work. But I'm open to all ideas. It is, of course, a matter for the Minister of Justice, and his door will be open to discussion of these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131826	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131829	I can see that the Minister of Justice is nodding, and I can also say now that the Prime Minister and I have at least reached a position agreement on an enhanced effort against hateful preachers and the entry of imams, which will not be good for Danish society. And with the attitude agreement, I am quite sure that we will be able to put the technology and practical things in place afterwards, because these are the positions we are going to meet on. Now that we are in such a good position and there are seconds left, let me ask the next specific question...
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131907	In fact, there are no seconds left and we must keep to the speaking time, so I must ask the Prime Minister to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117131911	That would be a blankot. I have no idea what was being asked about, which I was supposed to say positively, so it might be a little dangerous just to say that I remain open. However, I do so in relation to all the proposals that relate to the fact that we are taking up and taking seriously the fight that is being fought within our own society. Some of the things that may be most painful to all of us, and which are also difficult to grasp, because we are a peaceful people, they say about us Danes that we don't take a knife in one hand without having a fork in the other hand... are at all like grasping understanding, that there are people who hate our way of life so much that they will fight a battle among us with our own tools. And all we can do to refute it is open to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132003	Thank you. And as the Prime Minister went a little over speaking time, I would like to give a little extra to the questioner, who can now ask the question she would have asked in the first place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132012	I would very much like to do so, because I welcome this attitude agreement that we have now reached and would suggest that we reach another, even if the seconds are scarce, namely to prevent more young residents from leaving Syria and Iraq to become Syrian warriors or otherwise contribute to the atrocities. And therefore, quite quickly and in concrete terms, when the time is as short as it is: can we today also give each other a commitment to impose a definite ban on entry into the war-stricken areas, so that here together in the Folketing we are doing everything we can to prevent more young people from going out as so-called holy warriors with a huge risk of terror in their return to, for example, Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132100	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132104	Thank you. But before the government became a government, the Left had proposals to address this proposal, too, which we had difficulty in getting through with the government then • among other things. to introduce an exit ban so that people could subsequently be targeted by criminal law. At the time, it worked on purpose. I am pleased to note that it is there now, and that creates a space for us to take real initiatives that have a real effect, even in the area to which the questioner refers here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132139	Thank you. That was the first question. Then we move on to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Chairman of the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132147	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introductory remarks. We are standing here in the first question hour after the terrible things that happened in Paris the night between Friday and Saturday. It was horrifying to experience. It was awful. I think it has been so good to see how the Danes have reacted this weekend and yesterday. Danes have gathered together on different occasions, put flowers and lit sounds at the French Embassy. Denmark has shown at all possible levels that we are a country that is close and anchored with the French in what the French go through and what the French of course want a response to. It should not be short of the support and support of the Danish People's Party, also for the government, for the efforts to be made in this regard. I also think that the Prime Minister has done well as the Prime Minister of Denmark in the situation. He has responded and spoken to the Danish people as well as to other countries, and that, of course, is how it should be in the situation. It is true, as the Prime Minister says, that we must keep a cool head; we must be realistic, but we must also recognise that there are dangers out there, there will be Danish values, western values to live up to, and words will not be enough. Action must be taken. I also share the Prime Minister's final comment on the previous question that it is good that things are moving forward. The support for things for which it was previously difficult to obtain a hearing, in order to make the necessary steps, now finds a greater breadth. Of course, we would just like to welcome that. Never be annoyed that there are some who in this way repent. One of the places where we have still not succeeded in getting the Prime Minister fully involved in what we think is the desire we have for clearly strengthened border controls. That is why I have a question for the Prime Minister in this regard, and it is a question of getting confirmation that the condition for us not to have control at our own borders is that the external borders of Schengen cooperation are sufficiently secure. It is paradoxical: if the external borders are not secure, why should it still be a duty for the Schengen countries to be unable to create their own border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132359	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132401	It is clear that there is the connection with freedom of movement in Europe that we will then take care of the whole of Europe. That is the balance that exists, and it is particularly relevant in the whole debate on migration and refugee pressure, if that is the discussion we are going to have. There is a need for Europe to take it more seriously to look after its external border. With regard to the internal border, I would like to say that I am very much in favour of freedom of movement. It has made Denmark richer. However, it must of course be the case that we have the opportunity to look after our country, and we also have that within the framework of the Schengen Agreement. This is among other things. Therefore, that on this terrible event France has been able to use the instrument to close the border. Unfortunately, we have to note that this is not in itself the full defence. Among other things: We know from open sources that one person who had apparently been involved in this attack, in other words actually traveled out of France through a border which, in principle, was shut down after the crime had occurred. So we need to be careful whether we are looking for real security or a symbol of security. But on the whole I would say that the better we can look after Europe's outer borders, the more open we can be to free movement. When I put it that way, it is also because we do not currently have a pistol limit to use one of the questioner's favourite terms. In fact, we have increased our presence and the number of random checks in view of the migration challenge, just as we, on top of what took place in Copenhagen in February, have generally tightened our preparedness.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132551	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132553	I welcome the fact that external borders must, of course, be real in order to have a ban on border controls between EU countries. What is clear, then, is the problem here: if the external borders are not safe and I assume that the Prime Minister agrees with me that they are not today, because there is no registration, and there is no external border control that is to be carried out in southern Europe, is it not right that we are discussing it, and for that matter it was also done before the terrible things in Paris from Friday to Saturday that it must open up for countries to implement their own border controls? So, my point is actually in a question to the Prime Minister: if a set of rules is in a certain way and half of the rules no longer exist in the real world, how can the other half of the rules be binding?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132649	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132651	It's all binding. As I approach it a little hesitant here, it is because I am a little uncertain about what kind of discussion we are now setting out to have. Is this a discussion about the border in the fight against terrorism, or is it a discussion about the border in relation to dealing with the current migratory and refugee pressures? On the first point, I would like to say, also from the sporadic knowledge we have about what has happened in Paris. It has not been fully folded, and that was actually what was in creating space for thought to find out what really happened in Paris; we know what happened, but what was it that was behind it? The answer here is not a limit. We have an opportunity to tighten up our border controls if the situation is there. Today, we have a stronger control at our borders than we had before the events of February and before we saw the migratory pressure. We also have a readiness to adjust if we consider the circumstances to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132813	In other words, the Danish People's Party does not demand border controls because of the terrible things that happened in Paris between Friday and Saturday. It is well known that the Danish People's Party is fighting for the introduction of border controls again. Of course, we do not imagine that all terrorist threats will then be dealt with. That goes without saying. We believe that border controls are better to have than not to have, in order to make life difficult for criminals who want to cross borders. What I am asking here is really a little more general and concerns the current situation or the migrant crisis. It is a fact that the one prerequisite of Schengen cooperation has been broken. How, then, can the second part of the Schengen acquis be binding? That is why I was initially pleased with the Prime Minister's statement, recognition or admission or what to say about the fact that the requirement for the prohibition of border controls between countries is that the external borders are safe. If the external borders are not secure, how can that ban still be in place? That is what I think is a mystery, and that is really what I want the government's answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132917	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117132919	There is no reason to hide the fact that the Schengen system is under pressure, and we are seeing this at the moment. Because there is an obligation to respect the Schengen acquis between countries, but there is also an obligation in the countries at the EU's external borders to fulfil their obligations. That is why it cannot be said that there is no obligation in one place and then there is no obligation in the other. No, it applies in both places, and what you can see at the moment is that it is under pressure. That is why Europe needs to do something about it. It is, of course, at the heart of the discussions that are currently going on at the latest at the meeting that I myself attended last week in Valetta that one has to take more seriously to protect the external border. We need to build up Frontex, we need to make resources available to the countries at the external borders so that they have the opportunity to take the external border seriously, otherwise the whole system will come under pressure. Can I not say, then, about border controls in the fight against terrorism, that we have to give much thought to what resources we should, if need be, be used to maintain border controls in the old-fashioned sense, in which all people have to be checked and show passports, and we must weigh this up against the fact that at the same time those resources cannot be used elsewhere at the same time. And with the patterns we have seen, and with the problem we have of having evil forces in our own ranks, I very much believe that the resources are better used to strengthen our intelligence service, our police, by having intelligent border controls, spot checks, etc. than reintroducing, you might say, the old border barriers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133055	Thank you. Then it is next, and this is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133102	I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for his speech at the commemoration ceremony at the French Embassy last Sunday. I attended like a lot of other people, and I think there's reason to sign for it. It was and it is important that the Prime Minister stressed that our sympathy and our sympathy go to the victims of the terrible events in Paris; that our sympathy and sympathy go to all other victims of terrorism, that is to say to the victims of the terrorist attack in Lebanon, to the victims of the attack on the Russian passenger aircraft; and that human life is human life, whether you are from the Middle East, whether you are from Africa or from Europe. It was important and it was good that the Prime Minister said so. I would also like to acknowledge for the Prime Minister's very clear point that the only people who want the dividing line to be between Muslims and the West are terrorists. The vast majority of the victims of Islamic State's completely insane terror are Muslims, and, as the Prime Minister said very clearly, the dividing line is between democrats and anti-Democrats. So, as I said, thank you for the speech I thought it was important. Just now, when we are all shocked and angry, and I also think there are many who are afraid, and for good reason it is important that you keep your head cold and clear, and that is why, like Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, I was quite shaken when I heard Mr. Søren Espersen, who is not just anyone, but is actually chairman of the Danish Parliament's Foreign Policy Name, says that it was now time to attack children and women, i.e. civilians. And I hear the Prime Minister say that Mr. Søren Espersen thinks he's been misunderstood. I think so, sir. Søren Espersen spoke very clearly, and that is why I think it is also important that the Prime Minister should say quite clearly today that the blatant breach of the Geneva Convention, as Mr. Søren Espersen is proposing to attack women and children, of course it is not something that the government can support and that the government must reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133316	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133318	Thank you for that, and thank you for those nice words. In relation to Mr. Søren Espersen, perhaps it's a little bit funny that it just falls into my lot to be the one to interpret Mr. Søren Espersen. Søren Espersen's words, because that's Mr. Søren Espersen's word. Søren Espersen and other representatives of the Danish People's Party probably better than me. I can repeat that we must respect the humanitarian law. That is, it may be said, the prerequisite for us to recognize ourselves as well and not to do the business of others, and I have also noted that Mr. Søren Espersen has clarified his opinions. If, after all, there is room to open it just a little, when it is crystal clear, then there is a challenge in that the enemy we have is an enemy who obviously does not respect the Geneva Convention or anything else, but who is acting civilly and persevering behind civilists. So there's a dilemma here. That does not detract from the fact that, when we take part in military action, it is done within the framework of conventions and international law, and that is where we are pursuing military objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133453	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133455	The Prime Minister says again that Mr. Søren Espersen has been misunderstood. Well, I think that Mr. Knox... Søren Espersen made himself very clear. Sir. Søren Espersen is being asked, and I quote: 'Do I hear you then say that we are about to bomb where there are women and children?' And sir... Søren Espersen answers: "Yes, of course. I don't think there's much to misunderstand. But it is a good thing that the Prime Minister is now clearly saying that of course Denmark must be on the right side of the Geneva Convention, because Denmark does not have to answer the barbarism of terrorists with barbarism. What happened in Paris made it very clear what cynicism and brutality the Islamic State stands for, and hence also what cynicism and brutality the many people fleeing the Islamic State of Syria are fleeing from. There is good reason to escape. The Prime Minister and the Government have submitted a proposal which includes: The idea is to deprive some of these refugees of the right to have their families safe for the first three years. War tears families apart, and it's a tragedy. Should Denmark not be working to ensure that families are reunited rather than maintaining the division created by the war?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133616	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133619	There may be plenty of good reasons to escape. It is not necessarily the same as having to logically flee to Denmark, which is not the first safe destination between Syria and here where we stand, and it may show the complexity of this. I was so glad that Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen congratulated me on giving out this feeling of horror not only to the victims in Paris, but to anyone who loses his life to terrorists, anyone who dies out there. I think so, but that is why it is not enough for us to say that anyone who experiences it globally can be handled in Denmark, we can give shelter to Denmark. That's not enough. Therefore, as sad as it must sound in Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's ears, everything is about finding some balances, and in terms of ensuring integration into this society, ensuring that we can live in harmony with each other, and ensuring that when we meet each other on the S-train, we think intuitively that we are here because we have to be here, no matter what we look like, we have to find a formula where we get the number under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133744	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133747	I certainly do not think that the balance can be found when, in the midst of a world-historical refugee crisis, the choice is made to deprive children of the right to safety with their parents for the first three years. I certainly do not think that we are hitting the balance. But I will move on to a third question. After all, one of the major problems in the fight against the Islamic State is the financial support given by people in particular. Saudi Arabia, Qatar, etc., countries with which Denmark and the West have very large trade flows. And another problem is that our NATO partner in Turkey has been allowing Islamists to cross the border for years, while at the same time seeing Turkey attack the Kurds who are actually fighting on a democratic basis against the Islamic State in Syria. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister and the rest of the government will take off their velvet gloves against, for example. dictatorships such as Saudi Arabia. It could be through financial sanctions. And will the Prime Minister and the government take off their gloves against the Turkish Government and its attacks on the Kurds in Syria and Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133904	There are 30 minutes for questions and answers in the final round. Here you go, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117133909	Not 30 minutes. The question is, what is involved in taking off the velvet gloves? We must turn it around and say: when we are going to unblock Syria, we are dependent on a much stronger commitment than what we have today, from just some of the states referred to. We have, it is a reality. You may like that or not, but it is a reality. If countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and Turkey do not form part of an alliance of countries pushing for a solution, we will have no solution. And if we do not find a solution, the war will continue and the pressure on Europe will continue. That is why I do not think that it would be wise strategy in our own national interest too to start by just taking off the velvet gloves and whip on some people that we are dependent on getting dragged to a negotiating table and to some solutions that move something.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134008	Thank you, and then the Prime Minister got the minute that was actually available. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134016	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the way he has led the nation in connection with the terrible terrorist attack in Paris, not least with the fantastic speech he made on King's Nytorv, which I think touched everyone who was present and everyone who saw and heard it. We are challenged in two areas: firstly, to deal with the specific refugee situation at home and to keep an eye on what the Swedes are doing, but also, of course, to deal with the global solution or the lack of a global solution as there is at present. That is why I have to start with such an open question: what is the government doing in this regard? What action has the Prime Minister taken in this regard? For what we can follow on the screen as citizens of this country are, of course, some startling movements in relations between the United States and Russia, Turkey's involvement, etc., but is there anything concrete that the Prime Minister can tell us that the government is at the forefront?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134129	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134131	Thank you. Within one minute and 57 seconds, it's probably hard to get all facets through. But the government is actively and internationally participating in all relevant places to promote a development favourable to Denmark, for Europe, for the world. What's this about? Well, it's about Denmark participating in the coalition against ISIL, essentially. It is a very broad coalition, and it is reasonable to say that if all participating countries made the same contribution as Denmark in proportion, the strength in the fight against ISIL would be somewhat greater than it is now. So we have legitimacy to push, and we also signal the will to do more. This is among other things. in the light of this weekend's debate on a possible mandate for a future redeployment of F-16 aircraft. We are participating in the European Union in order to push, you might say, the European agenda in the right place. That is what has been the idea from day one, namely that we have tried to push forward a debate in Europe on the basis of which we need to control the influx and not just discuss how it should be distributed. It is an agenda that is becoming increasingly realistic, and I am pleased about that. It rests, among other things. on the fact that Denmark has committed substantial contributions to Frontex, to the EU asylum office, that we have increased our funding for neighbourhood action, etc. in order also to get legitimacy to say that others need to do something more. At the summit held last week in Malta, in Valletta, we have put a very strong position on a message that is about more conditionality in our aid policy, that is, when we support development in Africa in the Western world, something must be given in return just to give an insight into some of the things we do and prioritise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134337	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Samulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134339	Thank you. In this context, of course, it can also be mentioned that a majority in the Danish Parliament has supported the Government's wish that we participate actively in Mali, just as we have done in the past, precisely in order to destroy terrorists, including in the heart of the country, or where the source is. I am very, very pleased that this initiative has also been taken, and the Liberal Alliance of course supports it. Turkey, which was also mentioned by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, is very much a potential key to resolving the conflict itself, but also to the flow of refugees. What about Turkey? Is there anything new to bring to the Danish population there?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134430	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134432	Thank you. It has been agreed at the informal lunch meeting that was between colleagues and me in Malta before the weekend, and that is just further up-to-date about what we have seen that we are aiming to have an EU-Turkey summit on Sunday eight days. I'm sorry, I can't get my calendar in my head to see if the sketches of an agreement can be brought to a proper agreement that has several purposes in it. One of them, of course, is to ensure that the millions of refugees who are in Turkey do not suddenly move and to ensure that the transit that takes place through Turkey and pushes Europe does not take place. This is a very good thing, and what has to be given in return is substantial economic aid to Turkey in order to be able to fulfil this task and then, moreover, a dialogue on issues of interest to Turkey, among other things. visa waiver and other opening of some closed chapters. This is a dilemma, but, on the other hand, it has to be said that the opening of certain chapters with Turkey also provides an opportunity for us to have this debate on some of the issues that are also challenging in Turkey, in terms of freedom of expression and the conditions of the press, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134552	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134554	Thank you. I fully agree with how difficult it is when we enter into dialogue with, for example. Turkey and must find solutions, but also the other way round, that we have to face up to the fact that it is also necessary here that we are real politicians and seek to achieve results that work and that we cannot only be idealists in this context. There is simply some real policy here that hurts. It could be said that lessons could be learned from the former German Chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, who is unfortunately now dead, in that he was so much the man for weighting real policy too, and we must do so. I would just like to finish by saying that I am pleased with the initiatives that have been taken, i.e. the games in the field of asylum and the debates that are now going on on about police dimensioning in the future, and I hope that we will succeed together, including by a broad majority, in achieving some good results. I would also like to acknowledge to the Social Democratic Party the constructive contribution that is being made in this regard. So here was no question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134703	Will the Prime Minister comment anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134706	But I would just like to thank you and thus make my small contribution so that we can regain some of the lost time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134713	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134719	The Prime Minister has already received some fine praises for his act since what we saw in Paris last Saturday. I myself stood down there on Sunday and heard the Prime Minister's speech and was deeply moved and I think there were a lot of us doing that, even in the living rooms and had the feeling that there is a Prime Minister here who, on behalf of Denmark, includes us all and puts words on some things that are really, really important right now. So I just want to say a big, big thank you for that. In this context, I think that some of what was interesting about the speech was also how we ensure unity in Denmark across cultural and religious differences. So what has the government done in terms of strengthening internal cohesion across religious and cultural differences?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134810	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117134813	Thank you for that, and thank you for those nice words. After all, the government has announced that around the turn of the year we will come up with a new integration programme which will pick up where others have escaped and where we also last left off, recognising that we have not succeeded here. And it's hard to say straight now. If it were simple, some would have solved the challenge at some point from the late 1960s and early 1970s, when we began to have people in Denmark with different ethnicity and with a different cultural background and a different religious background than those most at that time. So it is, of course, that if I have to answer at an overall level, I have to walk on two legs. It has to be said that we are demanding and expressing expectations, including the expectation that was in the exchange of words between me and the Social Democrat President that if you choose Denmark, you have to choose Denmark as well. We cannot accept that one wants to be in a country that celebrates democracy and equality and freeness of speech and that one spends all its energy on eroding it. Well, there we have to be sharp and cashy. We also need to be sharp and cash in that we live in a country with rights and obligations and that this universal welfare model we have built up is based on making our contribution. The second leg is so to be open and accommodating. And that's where I stand, too. We need to develop some of the tools needed for people in our society who have a harder start in life, and you can have that if you are born into an immigrant family; you can also have it if you are a young boy who has fallen through in a primary school class can be lifted into our society. So it's the hard, barky fist compared to the people who step next to it, and then the warm hand compared to those who need to be here. That is the balance we must strike.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135028	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135030	What I was also thinking was that right now I think there are a lot of our Muslim citizens who are greatly influenced by what has happened in Paris and who also have a concern about whether it has consequences in relation to their local environment and in their social relations with what might be called the rest of Denmark. There I am thinking very much of whether the government has reached out to some of the religious minorities in connection with what has happened here in Paris. In other words, have some formal steps been taken in relation to the environments which are supposed to ensure that this does not accelerate at home, that is, the unnecessary conflict, which is potentially present because of what has happened in Paris?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135115	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135116	I believe that I have reached out to everyone by the best but probably also poor ability to try to say something about what this is about and what it is not about. Islam is a great religion. It is just as obvious that it is also a religion that some hostages and abuse and exploit in a way that not only causes indignation in me, but also, fortunately, in many Muslims who feel that they are trampled on their religion. That is why it is important to say that the dividing line is not between Islam and the West; the dividing line is between darkened forces and enlightened forces, between freedom and freedom, between oppression and democracy. And in it lies to me also an attempt to tell the Danish people that now we must keep our tongues straight in our mouths. I am actually pleased that the Danish people are doing so. I also follow Facebook, and I can also see strange comments and a polarised debate, but my clear experience is that the Danes, as the Danes are absolutely the most, know how to balance it and know what we have witnessed this weekend in Paris and what we have not witnessed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135244	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135247	Thank you for the answers the Prime Minister has given to these two questions. And the last question is quite a classic one. The alternative has asked our members. As a starting point, we are a very friendly party, and it is also a friendly question that comes from Members: how can the alternative and the alternative members help the government to speed up the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135312	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135315	Well, I think it's very classy. I will myself consider whether I should use Facebook to perhaps give the Danes influence on my opening remarks here. I would say that the best advice for Members is 'no', it cannot only be for Members, because it would be too non-inclusive if only Members were allowed to participate; I assume that it is all that the alternative simply throws itself in and uses its political influence by showing up every time there are negotiations. After all, the government is a minority government that is dependent on a majority that we have to find every time. We have our own priorities based on green realism. Denmark is a country undergoing a green transition. We must continue to do so, and that is why we also come up with both morale and head up, when we are going to COP21 in Paris next week again. But if you feel that things have to be done differently from what the government is doing, then there is only one option, and that is to show up and give something and take something like that too. I just want to wish you luck, and I'm looking forward to seeing you in the meeting rooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135421	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135427	Nor will I neglect the opportunity to sign for the speech made by the Prime Minister last Sunday. I would particularly like to draw attention to one point which has also been drawn into today's debate and, most recently, in the reply to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's question. Uffe Elbæk, whom I think is incredibly well-chosen, namely to clarify what the Prime Minister called an evil and false dividing line between the West and Islam. I think it is absolutely essential that we stick to the fact that it is also a political responsibility to help ensure that false dividing lines are not created. The Prime Minister himself spoke earlier in her reply to Mrs Mette Frederiksen about the important dilemma in the fight against terrorism, namely the balance between safeguarding the freedom that we stand for, which is a fundamental part of our society, and then the measures that we take to protect it. That is why I would also like to say on behalf of the Radical Left that we have contributed and are also happy to contribute again to targeted action against terrorism. This applies to foreign policy, where we contribute, and that also applies to the measures we take at home. On the other hand, we are always on guard against symbolic measures that restrict all or part of the population in terms of thinking, believing, speaking and gathering, and that is the balance we must strike. And there I don't think there's room for panic or false dividing lines. Sir. Søren Espersen's statement is well on its own, especially after today, when so many people have distanced themselves from it, and I would also like to do so on behalf of the Radical Left. Perhaps it would have been a good thing if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl had also found room for it, but it might come on another occasion. However, I would like to ask directly: when the government the other day closed down the committee that the previous government had set up to look at the overall Danish terrorist preparedness and balance in relation to fundamental freedoms, is it regretted by the government today? Because I hear new initiatives are being considered in the wake of the terrible terrorist attack in Paris. But perhaps it was in fact a very good idea to ensure that it does not become symbolic, ineffective or emotionally felt that the committee's work was carried out precisely so that we were given a comprehensive picture of the effectiveness and balance of our terrorist preparedness in relation to the freedom of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135653	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135655	Thank you. No, we do not regret that, and that is because the committee work had not really started. Well, now I give an answer, exactly as I see it. It is not, of course, because the issue is not relevant. It is the case that, in relation to the learning from the Krudtønde and the synagogue, there are a number of explanations and such things that can be dealt with immediately and where there is no need for committee work but for action. And we have given priority to giving energy and to drawing into the current negotiations, which hopefully will lead to an agreement in the course of today. That is at least my vain hope. Then we'll see how it goes. Then the government reserves the right to continue working, and so do we. So, in my first speech here today, I have already announced measures on the legislative programme. And I do not rule out the fact that it can be meaningful to have working groups, task forces or committees, and we will then set them up if necessary. So it has been in my assessment and opinion of what should continue of what the old government had set in motion with various committees, whether there had been progress in the work. In other words, if there had been a committee that had worked so that it sprayed from the nails and there was a largely finished product, it would also have been part of the consideration when we had to decide whether the work should continue. But that was not the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135823	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135825	If only the same had been seen at the Iraq Commission, but that is another discussion. At any rate, I would like to note that the Prime Minister says that it is not because the issue is not relevant. And that is why I would just like to warn against the fact that, from tue to tue, ideas that may go through the air, even here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, are now being grasped, instead of having a comprehensive and comprehensive view of how we will have an effective protection against terrorism, if we do not have it today. After all, many other countries have spent time and effort on the countries we usually compare and collaborate with, for example. USA and England. In many places it has been found that some of the tools used in the past in the wake of terrorist attacks proved less effective compared to today's threat. That is why I would just like to warn against simply adding new things without considering whether resources are being used effectively today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135920	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117135922	I fully agree that when you resort to using a new tool, you have to consider whether it is proportional to the objectives you are seeking to achieve and what the use of resources is. I believe that we can do this without first having a committee which sits and chews through all things over a very long period of time. So I really do not feel that there is necessarily a conflict here. This is a dynamic thing, because the threat picture we are facing is serious and has been so all the time, but we constantly have to face the enemy, I almost said, and assess what technology the enemy has, what structures the enemy is working for, and then put the strongest possible defense against it. And there it is important that we agree on that at an overall level, and then it has to be put to the test in concrete terms that everything we do must be balanced against the fact that, at the same time, we want to continue to live in a legal society with legal certainty, with the protection of the individual. After all, there is balance to avoid selling out of it in order to protect us in the fight against those who, in a sense, ideally want those rights never existed. It is a balance, and it is something that must be tackled dynamically.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140047	Thank you. The questioner, sir. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140049	We look forward to initiatives addressing the latter. One other dividing line, however, which has been discussed this past week, concerns the reactions to Swedish border controls. There, I think, there was a desire from all the parties supporting the Prime Minister's Government that border controls should be introduced immediately, for fear that the conditions in Denmark would be completely changed up to the moment. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on not allowing himself to be caught by the panic prevailing there. However, when I finally take it up here, it is because I think it is important that there should not be a dividing line between the refugees who come to Denmark and those of us who are already here, who relate to the conflict from which they are actually fleeing, and to the same enemy who showed his ugly face here in Europe this weekend. Therefore, I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister to reconsider housing people in tents as the weather reports show that the first snow is heading for Denmark and to passiveise asylum seekers in camps, with a view to, I believe, that it should contribute to fewer asylum seekers. This leads only to one thing, and it is the opposite of what the Prime Minister has previously spoken about: rapid integration, where people support themselves as quickly as possible. We can do better, and the Prime Minister should reconsider this so as not to cultivate a false dividing line.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140210	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140212	We obviously do not agree on that. I believe that in many ways we agree on the basic position, but we obviously do not agree on the method. I very, very much agree that we must tackle the challenge of the asylum pressure that is in Denmark and take our share of responsibility in a way that does not create divisions among the population. I believe that this is a matter for us, and perhaps we disagree on this question of solving the exceptional task we have, in a way that can be dealt with financially, practically, logistically, and also in a way that is, I would have liked to say, as little as possible in the everyday lives of the Danes. I think so. Because I think that if we choose a different strategy, for example. If we did not dare to use a tent until the last handball hall had been seized, we would risk sharpening the response of the population. We obviously do not agree on that, and that is the way it is. However, I would just like to emphasise that my motives are to find a balance that ensures that the number is one that we can handle and that the way we handle it is also manageable in order to ensure that the everyday lives of the Danes can continue to work. I think this is the long-term prerequisite for the Danes to take on this task without us ending up in pure polarization.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140346	Thank you. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Prime Minister. The next is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140353	There is no doubt that what we have seen the IS commit in Europe, in Paris, in the heart of Europe, is one of the most terrifying and some of what we are all really seeing with some horror. For it is a one-man war army that has been sent to Europe. And I would like to say that the prospects are both frightening, but, as such, also quite worrying about our security situation and the security image we have brought forward. I believe that the seriousness of the situation has been recognised by all, both at home and in Europe, but also in a broader international context, not least in relation to our actions in Syria. I am pleased that there has been broad support in the Folketing both in terms of the reactions we have experienced to the terrorist attack in Copenhagen in January following what happened in Paris at that time, but also subsequently in terms of our action in Northern Iraq, where we have fought against ISIL by plane and bombs. Now we are present with a radar and the Danish planes are back in Copenhagen. I am glad that we are constantly looking at political matters in a very nuanced and less symbolic way, and I think the Prime Minister has made that very clear in this debate. I would actually like to commend the Prime Minister, as others have done, for his speech at the King's Nytorv, and I would particularly like to note a sentence in the Prime Minister's speech where he said: we must stand together. We're united. We stand firm. We don't compromise. I hope that this also applies to the European and international solutions in the light of what we have seen in Paris, and I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he will not, on the basis of what has happened, bring together all the parties of the Folketing and give an account of what he envisages to be done in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140545	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140548	Thank you for that and also thank you for those nice words. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr knows that my office is actually open. At least I have an experience that there are many party leaders there, also to an extent that goes beyond what I myself have a spontaneous memory of was the case, since I did not have this position. Then there is a strong desire for it, and I am, of course, open to it. When I have not done so at the moment, it is partly because I believe that there is a need for people to gain insight into what has actually happened in Paris and what are the derived effects for Denmark and the threat picture etc. We have one more body in the Folketing, namely the Control Committee. The rest of the reply seems to me to be immediately and I say it as positively as I think it also falls into a number of different disciplines. Some of this relates to this very specific agenda that comes at the next summit, i.e. already on Sunday 8 days, with Turkey. Something is about what is happening in the context of the defence dispute we have, in other words about the more military challenge in relation to ISIL. Something is about how we deal with our aid policy, so that it becomes rational. That's one of them. some of what is being discussed in connection with the Finance Act, in relation to the government's proposing a reduction in our level of aid. So somehow I feel that if we had a notion that now we were just gathering the party leaders, and then we put it all on the table, maybe it would be an expression that we were just scratching on some surfaces, compared to working in depth with these different things in the different relevant forums. That is the reason why I have not at the moment called for such a meeting as is requested. But if there is a broad demand for it, I am, of course, open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140757	Here you go, Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140800	I noted that after January, when there was the terrible attack in Paris and subsequently also in Copenhagen, the then opposition leader, now Prime Minister, was very concerned that we met and discussed the security situation and what would be obvious in relation to the further discussions. I therefore call once again on the Prime Minister to bring together the parties of the Folketing, not least in order to remember the words that were said at Kongens Nytorv, namely that we must stand together. Now I have noted that Dansk Folkeparti among others. has suggested that we bomb civilians. I have also noted that the Danish People's Party is today proposing that we do not send soldiers to Mali, where they are going to fight extremist Muslim groups in northern Mali or at least be peacekeepers in that context. There are many reports coming in the East and the West, and that is why I think that it might also be good for unity and joint action, also in relation to international action, that we are just meeting and discussing it here together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140858	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117140901	Well, as I said, if there is a very wide demand for it, I would be happy to make myself available. I think there is the difference from the beginning of the year to now that what we experienced with the attack on Charlie Hebdo set a whole new standard and put a whole new pressure on us. And from a very sad background, it has to be said that we have been working on that. There the government of that time took some initiatives. Then came the terrible incident in the powder keg and at the synagogue, and further initiatives were taken. We are sitting precisely in these hours discussing it under the Financial Law negotiations, and that is why it has just been my opinion that creating a space next door to sit and discuss the issues that are currently one of the focal points of the Finance Law negotiations • where, moreover, I hope that we will be able to land an agreement here today that will not represent so much added value. But I am really trying to say it without arrogance or anything else, because I am very open and prepared for dialogue, and if there is a desire for it, I would like to consider it. What I can guarantee in any case is that, in relation to the more security aspects, what does what we have seen in France mean? How much do we know about this, even beyond what can be said in this Chamber? What kind of implication is there for Denmark? Parliamentary Control Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141040	Thank you. Then it's the questioner for the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141043	Now the Prime Minister himself mentioned the police negotiations in connection with the financial law negotiations, and there I have to say that the government has not lived up to this, unfortunately, by doing so together, by making that plea for negotiations that we should accept severe savings in our youth education, vocational training and high schools. If you would have liked us to have done this together, solved it together, then we could have negotiated about the police. SF has done so several times, and SF also had a great desire to do so this time. And SF would have been there if it hadn't been for the savings on the young. But I would just like to remind you of the Prime Minister's words that together we are in fact the strongest, and I think that the police would be the best, in other words that as many parties as possible were behind the efforts that need to be made in the future. That is why, one last time, I strongly urge the Prime Minister to call for a debate on the security situation in Denmark based on what happened in Paris.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141139	Thank you. Then it's the PM. There have been a great many members of parliament in the Chamber, that is wonderful, but it also means that there is a lot of unrest. Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141147	Thank you. Now I think it is a good thing that we can unite on the main lines of where Denmark should stand, without agreeing on everything for that reason. We just have to be open and realistic and say that even when we experience what we have experienced and have this strong feeling that now we have to respond together, then there is also a political reality which, for example, is: It is about the fact that things have to be paid. So it is a good thing that there is agreement in principle that you should strengthen your preparedness, but there must also be agreement on how the bill should be picked up just to give it an example, right? And, of course, the world is not so good that we can then, you might say, wipe out all political differences. With that reservation, I think it is crucial that there are some broad lines of Danish foreign policy, in our fight against terrorism, which we hold fast to, and I think we do, in fact. We will take care and ensure that everyone gets the necessary insight into Denmark's situation in the forums where it can take place in such a way that you can also have a basis for information that makes sense in order to qualify the open political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141305	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141315	Thank you. Now you rarely have to go around repeating what everyone else is saying, but I will make an exception on today's occasion and also praise the Prime Minister for both the approach and the handling of the last few days. This also applies to the speech given by the Prime Minister on Sunday. It was, moreover, an event organized by youth policy organisations, and I think we should perhaps also acknowledge and welcome this, in other words that we are living in a democracy in which youth policy organisations stack such an event at such short notice. That is why we are probably all now looking for what has happened, security because we are affected by it. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the Danes' security and the fight against terrorism. We are very concerned about the security of the Danes, which is why we are also fighting for a strong police force and severe punishments for criminals. That is why we are fighting to strengthen police action in our border areas and to give a boost to the fight against terrorism. I think, of course, that we should keep a cool head when we are exposed to the atrocities that we have seen in Paris, but we must also act as things develop. What we have seen for a while shows that we cannot stand idly by, but that we need to act. We must maintain tolerance and openness, but we cannot, of course, fight the Islamic State with our values alone. That is why we have long proposed that we take a much more active part in Syria, of course, together with other countries. We must strengthen humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood, because there is a great need, and then we must create safe zones in Syria. We must fight the Islamic State, we must tackle the root of the nettle so that the Syrians can live safely in their own country. I would like to hear how the Prime Minister sees increasing humanitarian aid to Syria and the neighbourhoods and how the Prime Minister views possible increased military intervention in Syria, including Danish participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141514	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141517	Thank you. First of all, I would like to add my congratulations to the political youth organisations. It was a very noble initiative which, a little hopefully, on behalf of all of us, shows that there is a new generation that, in general, will fight for the right to disagree. In relation to the question, I would like to say that with the funds we have provided recently and also the 100 million. EUR 750 million kr., which we have put on the table as a framework to support an EU policy, has increased efforts in the neighbourhood. Compared to what we have budgeted in our draft budget, we are also higher than what was budgeted in the previous year. And then it is up to the negotiations that are going on at the moment and, as I know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Søren Pape Poulsen takes part in seeing if you can draw it further. In relation to the military contribution, I would say that we are making a substantial military contribution. We do, and I think that is worth emphasising. We had an F-16 contribution, which is now paused and replaced by a radar. We have soldiers present who train and train the Iraqi security forces, and, in terms of Denmark's size, we are one of the coalition parties who are really doing something. Does this mean that I am writing off the possibility that we can do more? No, I don't, but first of all there's probably a need to send that signal to this very broad coalition of about 60 countries that others should be inspired by Denmark. If requests come in, we'll be open to them. That is what I can answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141707	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141710	Thank you for your answer. There have been reports on several occasions that returned IS fighters may pose a security problem. After all, there is much discussion about who is coming to our country and what the challenge of that can be. This is also one of the reasons why we have proposed that we have temporary and effective border controls. The police estimate that since September more than 50,000 refugees and migrants have entered Denmark. We don't know the exact number, we don't know who crosses our border. It may be illegal immigrants who do not need asylum, it may be criminals who do not need to stay in our country, and it may be unaccompanied children who disappear without a trace. Surely there is no longer any doubt that we are in an extraordinary situation with the flow of refugees and migrants we are experiencing right now, and we need to have control to ensure that illegal immigrants and criminals are denied access to Denmark, so that the police can have an overview of who is staying in the country and then unaccompanied children get help and support. Is the Prime Minister still of the opinion that there is no need for temporary and effective border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141822	The Prime Minister. I also think that the last questioner should be given the opportunity to hear what the Prime Minister is replying to and to hear what he is asking himself. So, please, let's calm down. Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117141835	Thank you. In relation to avoiding Syrians and returned Syrians, I would say that the government has a draft law in consultation at the moment, which follows up on what the party of which the government is composed, and the questioner's own party also agreed on before the elections, and which we had difficulty getting through with. So it's in a process. With regard to our borders, I would like to say that we are now holding tighter controls in our border areas before the migration crisis started at the weekend of 5-6 September, and that is something that we are constantly following and constantly taking a stand on. This debate has two angles. One relates to the approach of the questioner, the other relates to the asylum situation, where I have made no secret whatsoever of the fact that I believe that the number matters and that I want Denmark to act in such a way that the steps we take do not in itself mean that we have more asylum seekers than is necessary. In this context, it is certainly my view that we are doing things wisely. I would point out that Sweden has received over the last week in the vicinity of 10,500 asylum seekers, and to put it in relief since the introduction of the Swedish border control, we have received a great deal of uncertainty about the figures, but still an average of 140-150 per day.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142004	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142007	Police Intelligence has previously said that it was not likely that there were terrorists or IS fighters among the now more than 50,000 refugees and migrants who have travelled to and through Denmark or where they have now gone. Other countries' intelligence services assess the security situation somewhat differently: the number of Islamist extremists has increased during the flow of refugees and migrants, and Islamists are recruiting among refugees and migrants. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister shares PET's view of the situation, or whether he is not also a little surprised that we are obviously going completely free, while other countries consider that there is a completely different threat to be aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142056	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142100	Now, I think we are going to get to the point where we have to stay cool and be careful that we do not politicize something that is professional. I mean, I don't really have the personal skills that enable me to make a professional decision as to whether or not I share some assessments. We have a responsibility to set up some intelligence services in both internal and external areas which have the capacity, resources and competences that enable us to rely on what we get back. I think that the country would be badly organized if it were the case that we politicized those assessments. It is true, as it says, what the assessments PET has had in the open space are, moreover, in line with what has been the general view in Europe. This is dynamic. An investigation work is now under way in relation to France. We don't know for sure who's behind this. We must learn a lesson from this. It is clear that one cannot rule out the possibility that in the flow of refugees there are also ISIS sympathizers, nor can it be ruled out that if one stopped them, there would be other ways in which they could enter. Now, therefore, we must act with great care. I would like to repeat what I also said to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: we will, at the appropriate time and in the appropriate place, when we have sufficient knowledge of what is up and down, arrange that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has a more detailed insight into how we assess the situation than the one I can give here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142238	Thank you. That's the end of Question Time. And I see it was exceeded by five minutes. We'll try to do better next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142254	The Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed Katrine Winkel Holm as a member of the Danish Radio Board for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Ole Hyltoft. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142319	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 6 by Trine Bramsen (S), Marcus Knuth (V), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and there you go. Is everyone done voting? The vote is closed. In favour of 65 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), against 46 (DF, EL, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 6 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 7 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 8 of Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142451	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142516	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, RV, SF and KF), against 17 (EL and LA), abstentions 6 (ALT). The proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142549	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142629	Thank you. It is not to tell you what the policy of the Alternative is in this area that I am standing here today and not just having written the contribution of the report. It is simply because we needed to get a better look at matters because the information came very close. First of all, I would like to say that the alternative has chosen to support the efforts and we would like to thank the Minister for a very, very effective response to the questions we have asked. There were no fewer than 17 questions on our part that were dealt with within a day and a half. That was very, very positive. On the other hand, we would also like to criticise the way in which we adopt such a major effort. For the treatment of this has happened over a week and the explanation that it has happened over a week is not that it is a demand from the United Nations that they have needed it. Many other countries have not yet approved the aid. It is simply because it was the day when it was possible to implement it in this Chamber. Otherwise, there would have been a legal vote in the way, and then it could not be until the new year. And we really think it is scandalous that it should be rushed through in a week, because many unanswered questions are still missing. We have received answers to all our questions in the Alternative, and for this we thank you, and therefore we can back up. But there is something fundamentally wrong in the fact that, for example, Enhedslisten is told that there is a translation of essential documents from English which one cannot immediately reach and that there may be too high a price. We'll be notified on Friday afternoon at noon. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 17.00 that afternoon. I am actually quite confident about what is about to happen, the effort we are sending our soldiers into, and that is the essential thing for us in the alternative. We are absolutely sure that the mandate we give is the right one. We have even been told by the Chief of Defense that you are safe and that this is the right mandate, and that is why we say yes. But something is wrong when we send our soldiers and peacekeeping forces away after such a short and then rushed a decision-making process. As I said, we vote yes and we are quite confident about it, but it should be possible to do better. There should be better arguments than that we should hurry to vote something through because there are no other days to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142846	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117142855	Thank you to the many parties behind the resolution here. The only thing that gets me on the platform is a few comments on the alternative's comments on the process. I admit quite frankly that this is a very rapid process for the adoption of the motion for a resolution. However, it is a process which we have put forward in several stages, in which over a month ago, more than a month before we tabled the resolution, we mentioned in the Political Affairs Committee that we intended to come up with an initiative in this area and then, in the Political Affairs Committee, we specifically stated what initiatives would be taken and then came up with the motion for a resolution and the debate here. I share the view that it is not optimal, but it is because we are now faced with 14 days when the Folketing does not meet because of the legal reservation and to make it fit in time we chose to run it through here. In relation to the translation, it is quite right, as has been said, that there were some documents which there was a wish to have translated, which, within the timeframe given when questions on translation were asked, could not be done. That is, of course, a pity, and if we had had a longer time frame for it, it would have been possible. Now we, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Bureau, are having a dialogue on how to ensure that the relevant documents, if desired, are also available in Danish. It is the case that we have sent a great many Danish troop contributions on the basis of the material contained in the motions for resolutions, without translating the resolutions behind them. It is therefore not new that there is no translated UN resolution. That does not change, of course, if there is a desire for relevant documents to be translated, that we should find a model in which, within the limits of both time and resources, we provide the material, because I only wish that not only the alternative, but all members of the Folketing are fully informed before we have to make as crucial a decision as sending out Danish troops. Thank you, however, to the many who support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143112	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, who has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143120	If the Minister will answer, I would like to ask him a few questions. It's about these translations where I helped make the agreement that we could get translations. Of course they protested over in the Ministry at the time, but there was agreement in the Folketing that they should be available. When the Minister says that it is a month since we pointed out that this should be started, the Minister knows that this wish lies in the Folketing, not only for the sake that we are some who have not gone to university and learned English, but also because there are plenty of Danes who are following the legislation in this area. This is the area of war and peace where there are the most requests, at least to me, when I sit as a parliamentarian, from people in the country, who say: what is it that you decide? What is the basis on which you decide? That's one thing. Why on earth didn't you start it at the time? The second point is that it turns out that Resolution 2100 we have called for three small resolutions from the United Nations, which is the whole foundation of which I also asked for translated, which has not yet been translated, is translated into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Why couldn't we have it transferred?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143227	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143229	As I mentioned before, it is the case that when we could not translate within the given time frame, it was the question of when the question was asked in relation to when the translation was asked to lie. I myself, in my capacity at that time as Group Chairman of the Left, have been involved in making exactly the agreement that Mr. Christian Juhl mentions, namely the motion for a resolution that relevant documents should be translated into Danish. What is our challenge is that there are a great many documents that you might think are relevant, and we do not start by translating them from one side of the coin. As I just mentioned to Mr. René Gade, it is the case that we have not, as I know, translated the UN resolutions behind it in the past. There has not previously been a desire to translate the UN resolutions behind the deployment of Danish forces into Danish. That's why I didn't know at the time that it would be relevant. Now we are trying to do a process with the Bureau, pointing out what is relevant and quickly clarifying what Members of Parliament must want to have translated, and then we would be happy to help them forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143336	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143340	It's not that hard to find out, sir. Minister. If you look at the report by the Bureau that they were involved in making in March, it says exactly what examples of paper it could be. Nine out of ten of the examples are UN resolutions. And when we send soldiers into a UN mission, what are the most important pieces of paper? Indeed, everyone can say that these are the UN resolutions which the Minister himself mentions as the basis of the mission. So there is no need to wait for a parliamentarian's question. Out there, you can't come and ask for these things, so it has to be preventive that you do this. So I hope that the agreement that was made with the Minister and the Bureau is that it will be made in advance before we begin to decide on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143424	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143428	It is the case that, as I said, I myself have been involved in making the agreement at the time. I am well aware of the fact that it suggested that the Ministry should deliver something more, but Mr. Christian Juhl's question was whether by a certain date, in other words at first reading, we could have something translated. There was the assessment in the Ministry that we could not achieve that within the time frame that was given. I am very sorry about this, because I would like us to have translated what is relevant and, as I said, we are engaged in a process in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Bureau, is discussing how to ensure that relevant material is available in Danish in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143500	Thank you. There is just one more brief comment. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143509	It is important for me to point out that I have just stressed that there has been great satisfaction with the rapid response we have received from the Ministry of Defence, so that is not a general criticism. The general criticism is that when we send out our forces, even though they are peacekeepers, the public's demand for openness is not met with a process in which there is no time to translate a document which may not have been significant in the past, but which is at least being expressed by the elected representatives is essential. As a citizen, it must be incredibly difficult to understand that even those who sit and have to make the decision do not even have the opportunity to access the documents required. That is why my last question is this: could we not have waited until after New Year to do this, even if we would like to have it rushed through?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143549	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143552	In terms of providing the UN with a knowledge of what forces they have at their disposal to solve the task in Mali, we thought it was important to be able to report definitively early on what Denmark can deliver. Then you can plan in relation to other countries that can also deliver. To get the big puzzle over who delivers what, to go up, we wanted to have a quick clarification. In relation to what is being asked: Yes, I fully agree that the relevant material, which is a wish to be translated into Danish, must also be available in advance. I just repeat again: from my immediate memory, I do not remember any other case where there has been the specific wish that an underlying UN resolution be translated. We are now, hopefully, making a process of cooperation between the Ministry and the Bureau, which will enable Parliament to translate the relevant documents needed to make an informed decision in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143647	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143656	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 74 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and SF), against 35 (DF, EL and KF), abstentions 0. That is why the proposal has been adopted. The proposal will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143759	Does anyone wish to speak? I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117143833	Thank you. It is, of course, a proposal which concerns support for existing natural gas-fired industrial cogeneration plants. We have had a debate on it in committee and we have therefore arrived at a recommendation in the Enhedslisten to vote against the proposal. Our comments are that in the draft law on the implementation of increased subsidies for industrial cogeneration, it is therefore unclear whether it is reasonable to increase the subsidy for 2013 to 2015 and for 2016. The legal process has not yet fully clarified whether, in view of the evolution of electricity prices and gas prices since 2012, it is reasonable to increase the subsidy. The answer to question 7 shows that the changed assumptions between the cost of production and the electricity market price are not clear. We still lack the grant and tax analysis that should have been completed in 2014 and that the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate will not provide when. The draft law states that it is an expiry of both the 2012 Energy Agreement and the 2013 Growth Plan. The Enhedslisten adheres to the parts which are part of the Energy Agreement and which include a grant of approx. Three cents per penny. kWh. The proposed grant schemes of the bill derive from the 2012 Energy Agreement, with reference to the NO x Government's announcement that it will propose to eliminate NO x Impact on the economy of the natural gas-fired industrial cogeneration plants included in the draft law and NO x 2 øre per year. kWh. In advance of the grant from 2016 to 2020, Enhedslisten would like to discuss whether the grant should be granted according to whether plants are included in solutions where electricity and heat production are managed taking into account wind power production, and whether the choice of fuels should also have an impact on the amount of the grant, as well as the consequences of the possible abolition of NO x Enhedslisten, notes with satisfaction that in a response to us the Minister has put forward the prospect that the energy reconciliation circle in 2016 will discuss the scheme when there is a better decision basis. This commitment is not included in the draft law. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. The report we have submitted has been submitted before we have received an answer to the last question we have asked. We have also noted that there has now been a first reading and a second reading without the Minister being present. We are very much looking forward to a third reading on Thursday, when perhaps the Minister is here, and then we can have a discussion with the Minister on what is unresolved. I think it is fine with temporary workers, but I really think it would be best if the Minister were here when we dealt with the legislative proposals which are obviously urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117144143	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117144151	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1, which has been elected by the Committee? That is not the case. Then it's agreed. I would then suggest that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117144214	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117144235	We have been discussing the procurement law over the last year, and that may sound a little boring, but it is actually the law that sets the framework for what we can spend a three-digit billion dollars on in Denmark. Under the previous government, we made a broad agreement to combat tax havens and tax evasion, where the former minister also promised to take the lead in the EU when it came to using both European legislation, but also later Danish legislation to promote proper tax, environmental, human rights and so on. It matters when we spend a three-digit billions on buying goods and services, etc. Unfortunately, the ambitions have been set pretty low in this bill. We have a number of amendments, and so do some of my colleagues, and I hope we can have an ambitious law that says that when we are going to spend the Danish tax dollars buying in, buying food for day-care institutions, services, building roads and construction works, there must of course also be social considerations, there must be internships, there must be environmental considerations, etc. It's actually something we could do with this law; it's possible. So I hope that the Folketing will vote in favour of some of the amendments that actually mean that the Procurement Act can promote our procurement policy in Denmark to be more sustainable environmentally, socially and economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117144418	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117144426	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and RV) and can now be voted on. The vote is closed. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL, RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minority lapsed. The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL, RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 5-7, elected by the Committee? That is not the case. Then the amendments have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (El, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. That is not the case. The amendments have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 12 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL, RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL, RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (EL and ALT), joined by a minority (RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 15 members of the same minorities have lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 16 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 17-21, member of the Committee? That is not the case. Then the amendments have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 22 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL, RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 86 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 23 and 24 members of the Committee? That is not the case. The amendments have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 26 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 15 (EL, SF and 3 (RV), against 93 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 27 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 28 of the same minorities as rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 29 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (EL, RV and SF), and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 34 (DF, EL and SF), against 74 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 30-32, elected by the Committee. That is not the case. The amendments have been adopted. I therefore propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117145134	The debate is open. Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117145203	Thank you. As Social Democrats, we are concerned about ensuring Danish companies the best conditions for both securing the current jobs, but also for creating new ones. Therefore, it is important that our companies have good conditions for cultivating new export markets and remain strong on markets that have already been achieved. One of the means for Danish companies to be stronger in competition in the global market and in the cultivation of new markets is the Danish Export Credit Fund, which can offer financing and risk coverage in cases where private, commercial insurance and capital markets do not normally take on risks. We know that export credits are an important competitive parameter for Danish companies in international competition. Not least, export credits are important for small and medium-sized enterprises, and as many of the Danish companies are small or medium-sized, export credits are extremely important for many of our companies in global competition and for the possibility of cultivating new export markets. Indeed, most OECD countries also offer export credits to their exporters under similar schemes as in Denmark. The increased competition on export markets means that demand for the services of the Export Credit Fund has increased and that situations often arise where current legislation needs updating and modernisation. That is why the draft law we are discussing today also shows that in recent years the Export Credit Fund has been given new tasks and, fortunately, has seen a significant increase in demand for its services. It is in this light that we shall see today's first reading of the L 50 on the Export Credit Fund. The proposal is intended to equip the Export Credit Fund for international competition both today and in the future. And in order to equip EKF for the market by 2015 and in the future, with this proposal, we will transform EKF into an independent public company, a so-called SOV, instead of being an independent management entity. At the same time, it is proposed that the name be changed to EKF Danmarks Export Credit. With the transformation, we will create a stable and secure legal framework around EKF, so EKF will be able to demonstrate the flexibility needed to meet the demand of Danish companies both today and in the future. In financial terms, EKF's own funds will continue to finance the Fund's activities, however, with the possibility for the State to regulate capital through deposits or withdrawals if there is an interest in regulating capital. In addition, EKF Denmark's Export Credit will work on the basis of the rules on sound risk management. In order to ensure that an independent public company is properly run, specific requirements are imposed on the company's board and management, and EKF Danmarks Exportkredit will be subject to the supervision of the Minister of Business and Growth. It is also proposed that the Board of Directors be composed of 9 members, of whom the Minister for Business and Growth appoints 7 of the members, while the employees of the company appoint 2. Everyone is elected for a 2-year period with the possibility of re-election. EKF has previously conducted negotiations on behalf of the Danish Government under the auspices of, for example, the OECD and the EU, where export credit rules are established. This will continue to be the case with this proposal, and it is to the great benefit of Denmark that we can draw on the expertise we have in EKF. That is why the Social Democrats can also recommend the proposal and look forward to further work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117145519	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117145527	As the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, the Export Credit Fund is not a new player in relation to the Danish companies and their opportunities to exploit export opportunities in different countries. But what is new is that we are changing the structure, so where today it is an independent management unit, we are changing it into an independent public company, a SOV company, which also makes the organisation much better and robust in relation to the various tasks to be carried out by the Export Credit Fund. The Danish People's Party thinks it's common sense to have this update made, because the premises change all the time, also in relation to the way you have to act on international markets. After all, we all have a great interest in Danish exports being handled and developed in a very good and sensible way for the benefit of Danish companies and not least the Danish workers. So, on that basis, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117145627	No one has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of speakers is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117145634	As the two previous rapporteurs have explained, we need to look at the legal basis for the Export Credit Fund. The Export Credit Fund has been established as far back as 1922, and I think the latest significant change in the legal base is back to 1999. Of course, a lot has happened, and much has also happened in relation to the way in which the State exercises ownership of either companies or what has been regulated so far as a management unit is concerned, and there is therefore the assessment that there should be some more muscle, a better framework, in relation to the export credit fund being transformed into an independent public enterprise. In connection with the change, the name is also changed to EKF Denmark's Export Credit, and as others have said, there is absolutely reason why we in the Danish Parliament should ensure that export credits are optimal. This may be crucial for both small and medium-sized enterprises, but also larger enterprises, to be able to have executed export orders • export orders that create growth and employment in Denmark. This is something that all countries use; the OECD has guidelines for it, and it makes very good sense that we have a public institution, a public instrument that can step in where the market may not be able to deliver entirely. We can at least see that when the business cycle changes, there is a growing tendency for export credits to be used through EKF to ensure that companies dare to execute the export orders they are fighting for. And, of course, it is important that the funding is also in place so that it is not at the risk of the company's survival that export orders are withdrawn back to Denmark. That is basically what is crucial when we discuss how growth and prosperity are created, namely that there are optimal framework conditions, so that Danish companies can concentrate on what they are good at, namely to run business, pull orders home and create jobs, and that of course requires that we ensure an optimal framework conditions from the political point of view. We can do that in a lot of ways. One of them is to provide the necessary credit facilities for exports, and it makes very good sense that we sometimes look at the legal basis. And, as I said earlier, especially when we can see that the way in which the state carries out its ownership changes, we must, of course, make sure that the way in which the various things are organized just gets an update. If we look at the consultation answers, we can also see that there is a uniquely positive feedback in relation to the expectation that this will mean that the Export Credit Foundation or EKF Denmark's Export Credit, which is the right name for the future, will have better opportunities to act and better be able to deliver the export credit, which may be crucial for the export order being pulled back to the country, and we have every reason to support that. So, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117145948	There is one brief comment. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117145957	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that there was a market error, or was talking about where the market was not reaching, when a helping hand had to be given. Would the rapporteur like to add a few words to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150012	For example, if there are some markets that are a little more risky, new markets that start up places where political stability is not necessarily exactly like the one we know in our neighbouring countries. There the Export Credit Fund has the possibility to go in and cover export orders so that they can also be executed. It may be a Danish company that has proven that it has the technology, that it has the skilled employees, and that it has the products and services that are required. But if, because of the uncertainty about the funding, it does not dare to deliver on it, there is the possibility that the Export Credit Fund may enter. It is, of course, designed wisely, so that the starting point is that the system rests in itself and that the risk taken must, of course, be justified. It is not, of course, a free admission that you can simply draw the money into the treasury. Premiums are paid for the provision of export credits. However, since the State is a guarantor, there is therefore a possibility of providing financing which can otherwise be difficult to secure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150122	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150125	In other words, the state stands as a guarantor when there is market failure, when there is uncertainty as to whether capital can be provided and whether there is a market. I think that's really interesting. I also belong to a party that thinks that there may be good reasons why we sometimes have to go in and give a helping hand and actually also here. I just think it's interesting as a principle. Last week we had a proposal from the SF for an alternative mortgage system, and that could be put on exactly the same terms. One might say: it is market errors that are uncertainty about credit, capital, etc. We really wanted the state to go in there and help out this market failure, namely that there are people who cannot get loans for healthy projects, for healthy house purchases, etc. We would like to go in and help with that. I was told that the state should not interfere, because it is distorting, it is distorting the market. How is this not market distorting?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150223	One might say that there is a significant difference between discussing Danish mortgage and then discussing export credit financing. As I said, the current provisions go back to 1922, so I have to say that it seems like a slightly sought comparison. What is crucial is that we ensure that Danish companies can provide goods and services because they are the best, and there may be places where it can be a challenge to finance it. The scheme is therefore also designed so that it can run around, rest in itself, so I think it is quite reasonable that we have the Export Credit Fund in Denmark. This helps to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150309	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150321	In the Enhedslisten we support such an export credit facility as a starting point, you might call it. It is, of course, a state credit facility, as the previous questioner also mentioned, and we think that is very sensible. That is funny, you might say, because it is usually something that the right side of the Folketing would be very sceptical about, as the previous questioner also mentioned, because it is a kind of state bank we are dealing with here. That is because there are some market failures, it is said, and that is quite true what the previous question was also about, namely that we also see those market failures when it comes to small businesses in our outskirts, but when Enhedslisten and also the SF have proposed a state credit facility in that area, there has been no need or desire on the part of the right to resolve that market failure. I think that's a little interesting curiosity. However, as a starting point we support the Export Credit Fund because it fulfils an important role. But we see two problems with the proposal now before us. The proposal is, of course, primarily about a new structure and, as we see it, it could be a risk of weakening political influence. We take the view that when society, the common fund spends money or lends loans to the business community, it must of course also be accompanied by a political influence that enables us to ensure that the loans granted take account of society, in other words promoting good working conditions, ensuring that jobs remain in Denmark and so on. etc. And we fear that the transformation into a so-called independent public company can weaken the possibility both formally, but perhaps more effectively for a political influence on the work of Denmark's Export Credit. The second problem concerns public insight into EKF's work and business. The way I read the bill, but I may have misunderstood it, and we may be able to clarify that during the debate, the majority of EKF's activities will be excluded from access to documents, and if that is the case, I think it is a major problem, partly because it makes it very difficult for citizens and the public to exercise control, partly because this is one of the things that has been discussed. export subsidies are granted, which means that Danish export companies are killing jobs in Denmark and moving them out to low-wage countries, where, for example, there are. is a ban on free trade unions and other things. This kind of thing should be brought to light in relation to trade unions and organisations, which is why public opinion is extremely important about this. I hope that the Minister can then explain what this means for public scrutiny, i.e. whether there will be access to the Foundation's work. So, in view of the two concerns, Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150632	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150644	After all, it is not the very concept of an export credit fund that is under discussion today. This is a change in the legal basis of the existing Export Credit Fund, and the other rapporteurs on the platform have examined it very well. The Export Credit Fund changes to become an independent public company, and there comes another board without government officials, but with people who have some slightly more relevant competencies. That is something we can support. If it had been the creation of an export credit fund we were discussing here today, I am not sure that we had supported it. But that is not the case, and that is why we are voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150738	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150748	Thank you. With this bill, the government is proposing a modernisation of the Export Credit Fund, including among other things: to make EKF an independent public company, and so we look positively at this modernisation of the Export Credit Fund, but we also believe that there is room for improvement before you are completely in the finish line. In the draft law there is a declaration of intent to draw up a number of specific policies, including: The CSR area, a development to be carried out between the Ministry and the Foundation. I am, of course, in favour of the Minister's wish to develop policies in the CSR area, but I also very much agree with the 92 group's response, which points out that an overall CSR policy is not enough. We need independent policies in relation to the environment, climate, human rights, corruption and economic conditions if the Export Credit Fund is to function as a modern company. I therefore hope that we can put the Minister's intentions into practice in the work of the committee. In addition, the draft law also lacks the need for due diligence, what we call due diligence, in a number of areas to ensure that the projects that are included do not cause or contribute to human rights violations, to climate and environmental damage or to corruption. We believe that the same demands should also apply to the companies that are being supported, and those companies will also take responsibility for the strict respect of human rights, our climate and our environment, as well as for the economic conditions that allow for corruption or tax fraud. I can say that we will be constructive in the work of the committee, but we would like to work to flesh out the points I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150936	No one has asked for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117150943	As most of the listeners have now realised, we are dealing with L 50, which deals with converting the Export Credit Fund into an independent public company, and that is why it must be able to act better in the modern market today. We must be able to help Danish export companies so that they have the best conditions, and we support this from the radical side, and we also support the transformation. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151008	No one has asked for brief comments, and then the next one is in the line of rapporteurs, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151019	The former rapporteurs have finely explained what we are dealing with today. However, I would like to say, as both the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and specifically the Alternative's rapporteur also mentioned, that the 92 Group has given us a hearing response, giving us some good advice on how to define the CSR strategy more specifically in relation to the environment, human rights and so on. That is why we also want to, as I heard Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist say so, take up some of these proposals, which are in the consultation answer, in the committee work so that we can make the bill even better. That is why we will wait for our position on the legislative proposal and see if we can do better. But from the outset we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151114	No one has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151123	The Conservative People's Party is in favour of the proposal. It is important to modernise, strengthen, consolidate the Export Credit Fund. EKF performs an extremely important piece of work for Denmark and Danish companies. There are a number of trades abroad that could not have taken place without EKF's work, and of course that will also be the case in the future. It is a solid foundation for our export efforts and for the opportunities for Danish companies to trade abroad in a number of different industries. So far, so good. The government proposes to convert EKF into a SOV. We think that is a good idea too. It creates more solidity and also the transformation of the board of directors into non-officials. So we can easily support the proposal here by the government and will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151220	There is one brief comment. It's from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151224	Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, that it is a market distorting effect when we go in and call it State aid to companies which, for one reason or another, need a helping hand in order to do a little better?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151240	No, it is not market distorting what EKF does, because they also go in and make some commercial agreements with companies when entering a particular market. It's not a handout. If a cement factory is going to pick up an order somewhere, it may be in the Philippines or in the Middle East, then it is done through an agreement that EKF makes with x company and those who place the order in that country. It's market conditions, so to speak, but where EKF is a facilitator who helps some things along the way that would be difficult out in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151312	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151314	So when a company wants to expand or enter a new market, but has some problems in one way or another, and you can get a helping hand through the Export Credit Fund, it is not market distorting, but when we legalise loans to rural businesses, it is market distorting to go in, even if you could say that the principle could be exactly the same, namely that you give a helping hand, but that it should rest in itself and so on. So when it is at home, it is market distorting, but when we give a helping hand to companies that want to enter a new market, it is not market distorting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151400	I think that there is the fundamental difference, that if you talk about establishing a real loan function in Denmark, there are institutions that provide loans in Denmark, both mortgage loans and banks. No matter where we are, you have a palette of different options, and then you can go to them and get a loan. It may be that the idea is not so good, or there may be other conditions in what makes it difficult, but basically you have the opportunity to get a loan. In the export market there are not always the same opportunities, and this means that Denmark misses jobs, misses exports, misses welfare if we do not facilitate it through EKF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151437	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151439	In Denmark, it is always possible to obtain a loan. Well, I actually think there are a lot of small self-employed people on the outskirts who don't quite agree with that. After all, we have heard time and again about problems for people who have closed their overdraft after the crisis and who have not been able to borrow, including companies. I don't think it's the case that the ideas are worse because you come from the west of Valby Hill. So what's the difference here anyway? In other words, we are dealing here with a state credit company which lends money to companies in connection with exports. In setting up, for example, a state credit company we could ensure that there was also credit to small self-employed people in some of the areas where it is really difficult because there is actually a market error, i.e. because private credit and banking do not make themselves available.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151531	Well, I do not think it is a relevant comparison that the rapporteur is making here, because it is the case that we have a palette of various institutions offering loans in Denmark. Then I myself take the view, and I have also said this several times, that the biggest challenge for our entrepreneurs and small businesses is that they lack capital, liquidity. This is partly because some banks and some financial institutions have, like, classified entrepreneurs, not because they are located in specific locations, but perhaps in certain areas of employment, such as those to which they do not want to lend money. This is a problem for society and Denmark in general and an end to development. I fully agree with that. But that is not solved by creating a state credit institution; it is done by making the existing market work. Here there is a situation where some companies want to enter the export market and where that facility really does not exist. So there is no real market for that, but then you would probably have to pay an exorbitant high interest rate for it, and that would cost as far as Danish employment, Danish welfare and Danish market shares are concerned. So that's why we help Danish welfare by having EKF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151637	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151639	That is precisely why I also support the fact that we have the Export Credit Fund. I think it is very good that we have a state bank that steps in when there is a market failure. We can also see in the comments to the draft law that there is not so much demand for it in periods of recession, but that there is a high demand for it in times of recession. I just don't understand the difference in relation to the companies that cannot get loans because, for example, they... There is a postal code for a place that is not close to here, so why you are not willing to say here that we also need the state to step in when there is a market error, so just as we do when companies have to go out and borrow for export. There is also a private banking market that they would normally be able to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151723	Well, that's the challenge: it's not comparable. For the fact that not enough loans are granted to entrepreneurs, the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party, surprisingly enough, agree that it is a brake on the growth of many small entrepreneurs that they are not given enough loans. However, it is a question of giving the financial sector a proper kick in the butt. It is not a question of establishing a new state competitor to the multiple of different institutes that are out there. In the export market, the situation is just somewhat different, because there are no alternatives and no options. So if you didn't have EKF, we wouldn't export to some particular markets in certain areas, and that is why we are very positive about the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151806	No one else has asked for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117151816	Thank you for your comments to L 50. The Export Credit Fund, also known as EKF, provides a central function for many Danish exporters and their export opportunities. Access to export credits is an essential condition for being strong in terms of competition for many Danish companies at international level. Today EKF supports exports for a large number of companies throughout Denmark in as different industries as wind technology, infrastructure and food technology, and there are large as well as small companies that benefit from this opportunity. In recent years EKF has been given a wide range of new tasks and has seen a significant increase in demand for its services. As many of their rapporteurs have examined today, the draft law is relatively clear, and the aim of the bill is to modernise, adapt and strengthen the legal framework for EKF and its ownership by the State, while at the same time giving EKF greater flexibility in relation to which service EKF can offer its customers. This ensures that EKF can continue to support Danish companies' exports and investments for growth and employment throughout Denmark. In concrete terms, the draft law means that EKF is transformed from an independent administrative unit into an independent public undertaking. This means that EKF will in future be regulated and operated in accordance with rules similar to those of the Companies Act. Furthermore, it will also support EKF's business operation and value creation. At the same time, the transformation establishes clear responsibilities between the management of EKF and the political level, so that this corresponds to what is applicable in state and private companies. This creates a modern framework for EKF's company, which strengthens EKF's ability to work purposefully and effectively to support Danish exports. The draft law also assures EKF's business model in relation to global development to the benefit of Danish export companies. It remains a requirement that EKF only offers its services to the extent that the private market does not take on risks of the type or scale in question. The draft law does not change the overall requirements of the economy of EKF. The level of equity still has to be such that it constitutes a sound basis for EKF's obligations and activities. EKF's revenue and expenditure must also be balanced over a number of years. Finally, EKF, with its bill, can still represent the government in matters relating to export credit policy, which is done specifically in the context of negotiations within the EU, the OECD and the WTO. Thus, EKF's long-standing experience with export credits and expertise in the field can continue to benefit in terms of defending Danish interests in international negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152117	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152118	Thank you to the Minister for the inspiring fire speech. I could hear that the Minister really cared about this. It does so for me too, and now I just wrote down one sentence, as the Minister said, namely that it is only relevant in cases where the private market does not strike. Once again, I have to say the same thing as to some of my fellow rapporteurs who have been on the platform before, namely that I fully agree with that. But I don't understand how you can do it. When it fits into one's hug, it is said that it is market distorting to try to make some kind of arrangement. For people with healthy projects and businesses and homeowners in rural areas, it is market distorting to make some support scheme. However, when it comes to exports and businesses, we can have a state bank, as my colleague said quite rightly. I would also like to hear what the Minister has to say about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152215	First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the praise that was given to the Minister. I fully agree that it was a very nice speech that was made. So I'd like to sign for that. It was happy. I don't think I can get much closer to it than that, as both Mr. Brian Mikkelsen and other rapporteurs have talked about the whole issue of EKF's operation. The government is in favour of EKF being allowed to develop. We believe that there may be markets where it is essential that export credits are available. It's a perfectly honest thing that the SF is against it. One must then say that SF does not want to support Danish companies, and it is fair enough that SF does not want to have the opportunity that many other countries have in relation to the national export credit facilities they have, as we do, for example. It is also seen in Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152303	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152305	Honestly, how many cliches can you get into one answer? We cannot get any closer, and the SF is against etc. No, SF is actually in favour. I am just wondering when it is only a few days ago that we were discussing a proposal from the SF to secure mortgages for all healthy projects and businesses and homeowners in rural areas. This was a market distortion and should not be interfered with. Uh, no, the state can't handle that kind of thing, they said, we have the private market for that. But here it's okay that the private market is going bankrupt, and then you have to go in with a helping hand. We agree with that, but it is hypocrisy to say that we should only do that when it comes to exporting companies, but not when it comes to Danish interests at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152352	The questioner should be aware that when I stand up, it is because time the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152358	Thank you. The reason why I replied to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, as I did, was that the SF rapporteur recently said from the platform that it had not done its job. Now I understand that the position has been settled. That bill is now being supported, and I would like to acknowledge that in such a short time we have been converted to a good idea. In relation to the discussion we had last week on lending in rural areas, I think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen should quote me correctly. For that is where I laid great emphasis on the fact that what needs to be done in relation to rural areas is that growth opportunities should be created. What I said was the catalyst for further lending in rural areas was that we prioritized the creation of growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152438	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152441	Thank you. I have two questions for the Minister. One is whether the Minister can confirm that with the new structure, the distance between policy-makers is widening, that is to say that the aim is to reduce political influence to some extent or whether I have misunderstood it. In other words, will there be a greater gap between the political level and the fund with the new structure? That's one. The second concerns the law on public access to documents. Section 6 states: The Act on Publicity in the Administration, the Act on Parliament's Ombudsman and the Administration Act applies to EKF Denmark's Export Credit and any subsidiaries of the company, with the exception of activities carried out under § 2. And in Section 2, as far as I can see, the whole of the fund's activities are listed: to provide risk coverage, to grant loans, to provide responsible capital, to disseminate mixed credits, etc. etc. So is it correctly understood that all of this is exempt from public access to documents? And is this a weakening of access to documents, or what you might call it, in relation to the current rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152544	Thus, what is applicable in relation to the Public Procurement Act is the following: The Public Procurement Act, the Danish Parliament Ombudsman Act and the Administration Act apply to EKF and any subsidiaries of the company. The exception is only EKF's commercial activities. I understand that the rapporteur thinks that we should sit and laugh. I note that this should be very funny, but it goes without saying that, of course, you should not have the opportunity to have direct access to commercial activities. I think that's very natural.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152614	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152617	I do not think I was given the answers to the other two questions. When I also think it is important to have access to these activities, it is, of course, about the citizens' money, and it is about being able to gain insight into what the citizens' money is being spent on. For example, do they stay? used to move jobs out of Denmark? In fact, I think it is relevant that citizens can gain insight into this. That is why I laughed a little bit at the Minister's neglect of the fact that it was apparently not a problem. But can I get answers to the last two questions? Firstly, is there less access to the new structure than in the old one? Secondly, is there a greater distance from the political • I know that this is a little an assessment, but can I have the Minister's assessment of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152652	I can say that in relation to the whole issue of ownership, it is the case that, in relation to the state ownership policy for 2015, it has been decided that, as a rule, there should not be government officials sitting and representing the state. I think it is common sense to have other representatives present who are then appointed by the minister responsible. I think that is only healthy in relation to the way in which public undertakings operate. In relation to the whole question of access to documents, I think it makes the best sense to give an in-depth written reply to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152729	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152731	Thank you, Minister. Something I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech was precisely this one about the CSR that lies in the fund. I would like to know whether the Minister could give some concrete form to his intentions in this area. I have just pointed out that a number of policies are needed: climate, environment and human rights, etc. So could the Minister put some of his intentions into practice in this area of CSR in the draft law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152800	Yes, well, I can say that CSR is integrated into the risk assessment of EKF's business. But in general, EKF itself is handling this issue as the company that EKF is now. But overall, as a minister, I stress that CSR is an important part. I think sir... Rasmus Nordqvist needs to become more specific in relation to what he wants answers to, because it is not quite clear to me what the challenge may be in relation to what might be in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152835	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152837	Well, I'll try to stay. This is in relation to the fact that a CSR policy has to be drawn up between the Ministry and the Export Credit Fund in general terms. What we are asking for, and what was also contained in the 92 group's response, is precisely that we go down more specifically and make a number of policies so that there is both a policy in the areas of human rights, climate, environment, corruption and so on. Is this a criticism which the Minister intends to take forward so that we can have policies in all areas so that we know that we meet the strictest requirements in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152921	No, I do not think I can say today that I intend to meet or comply with the wishes of the 92 group. But I think that when we come back to this discussion in committee, I will also have the opportunity to explain in more detail in writing what is behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152938	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for the floor at all, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117152957	The debate has been opened, and the first in the series of rapporteurs is Mr Cryer. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153016	Social democracy supports the proposal here. It is, of course, a re-submission of a bill that we have dealt with first here before the parliamentary elections. This is an extension of the possibility for municipalities to authorise flexible housing. This is a good way of promoting the sale of housing in rural areas. Today it is the case that a permit to have flex housing follows the owner of the house and is not transferred by a sale. This makes it inflexible when selling the house, making both the scheme and the property less attractive. Because if we are to stimulate demand and attract buyers who are looking for a leisure home, it makes sense that the flex housing permit follows the house and not the owner, and that is what the proposal is proposing here. In addition, the bill means that you do not lose your flexible residence permit if you want to live in the dwelling throughout the year. In this way, the home owner will have the opportunity to adjust as you like, without having to go through a new application process. Finally, municipalities are also given the opportunity to give binding pre-commitments for flex housing permits. All in all, the system of flexible housing becomes more flexible, making it more attractive to buy housing in rural areas. So from the point of view of the Social Democrats, we see this bill as a small stone in the building to ensure a better balance for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153145	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153156	The draft law here, as the Socialist rapporteur said, is a re-submission in relation to the treatment we had of the same bill during the previous parliamentary term, in May 2015. This is a follow-up to the growth agreement concluded by a large number of the Danish Parliament's parties. The draft law increases the flexibility of the flex housing system in the case of the resale of an already approved flex accommodation, and then it also reduces the administrative trouble associated with the subsequent resumption of a flex accommodation for the full year's use, in other words where it is to be returned. Overall, this is a very sensible legislative proposal which improves the use of many of the housing in rural areas, and it also makes it possible, for example, to improve the marketing of flex housing. This can give a little benefit to many of the Danish rural areas. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153255	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153305	By way of exception, I would like to jump to the conclusion immediately and say that, to everyone's great surprise, the Left, of course, supports the draft law, and we do so because, among other things, we have dealt with it before, in the assembly of parliaments, before the elections were held. After all, the draft law was very good along the way; I believe that the report was tabled and that the draft law was largely lacking to be voted through at the second and third readings. The bill that was not finalised resulted in part of the 2014 growth package between the then government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radical Left and the Conservatives. Basically, as the two previous rapporteurs have said, this is about relaxing the rules of the flexible housing scheme. And what has been in demand ever since the flexible housing scheme was established was precisely that it was possible for the status to be attached to the accommodation in question and not to the person concerned. It has been sought by rural municipalities, for the aim has always been to make it more attractive for people who wanted a leisure home to be able to buy a home in rural areas, which was not necessarily a cottage home. The fact that the audience who had the opportunity to buy them could be expanded could mean that housing, which could otherwise have difficulty in being converted, would be more that might be interested in. This can also help to ensure that the homes are maintained and used, and help to secure a housing stock that looks nicer and more attractive, which also has an impact on what it is that you are left with when you move around the kingdom. We have spent a lot of money on the demolition pool for several years, because everyone knows that when there are buildings around which are falling, it will have a negative impact on neighbouring properties and otherwise well-functioning areas. And by relaxing the rules of the flexible housing scheme, more people will be able to buy a property that they would like to use. There is also greater security because the property can be resold on the same terms. As has already been said, this is one of the many small elements, and we should also like to have some bigger ones, such as when the government chose to relocate more than 4,000 government jobs from the capital into the other regions, which should contribute to ensuring that it is more attractive to be in our rural areas; that we make sure that we have a better-connected Denmark, a better-balanced Denmark, where there is growth and employment, and where it is attractive to live. And the proposal here is one of the elements that has been asked for, and that makes very good sense. As I started by saying to nobody's surprise, we support the proposal, and we do so, of course, because it helps to move in the right direction and is something that has been in demand in rural areas. This is a positive development which we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153617	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153626	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the bill that the flexible housing scheme should be linked to the housing and that it should then be up to the municipal councils around the country to what extent they want to apply the flexible housing law. We look forward very much to following how the municipalities translate it and exploit it. Then we have one general comment: we think that consultation deadlines should be respected in all cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153654	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153716	This bill, which is a re-submission, extends the possibility for municipalities to grant flexible permits. The bill means that it will be possible to allow the flexible residence permit to follow the residence instead of the owner. In addition, it will be possible to grant a flexible residence permit allowing for a free exchange between recreational or full-year residence use. In general, the draft law exempts flex housing in rural areas from the land-zone permit requirements of the Plan Act when the full-year application is resumed. In addition, it will be possible to give binding prior commitments for flex accommodation permits to persons other than the current owners of the dwelling. In short, this is about giving more freedom to the municipalities and also to the citizens, and we really think that this bill illustrates first and foremost the need for much less strict regulation of the municipalities. This should be something that the municipalities themselves decided, it should not be something that should be decided from within Christiansborg. So this bill is a step in the right direction, but from our point of view, there is still a long way to go in terms of giving the municipalities freedom so that they can adapt differently if that is what they want. However, they should be given greater freedom so that they can adapt to the needs of their citizens, and this can be different from municipality to municipality. But we are in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153854	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153903	This bill is, after all, the implementation of a broad agreement from 2014 which, for natural reasons, the alternative was not part of. In addition, it is then a return from before the elections, which I was not part of for natural reasons. But it doesn't make this bill any less good, and I can therefore say that the alternative supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153925	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117153936	It is moving fast and I had considered whether I should just take our rapporteur's speech from the first reading last time, since nothing has changed and it was a very good speech that our rapporteur made last time. However, I can say that the word spoken at the time of L 203 in the previous session applies, and it is, of course, that we think that the extension of the flexible housing system is a good idea, both because it gives homeowners in the outermost regions better opportunities to sell some housing that could otherwise prove unsellable, because it provides relief in the administration of the municipalities, and because it is a proposal that we ourselves, in the past, helped to put forward in our government and therefore also strongly support now under this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154019	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154030	I shall be very brief, since it is a re-submission of a completely identical legislative proposal from the last session and my colleagues have explained very well many of the advantages of flexible housing. And the SF still supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154046	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154052	The Conservative People's Party agreed with the proposal in the last session, and we have not changed our position, so we still agree with the proposal, which provides more flexibility and better opportunities for flex housing, which can provide some growth and some foundation for rural areas. So, of course, we insist that this is a good proposal that we will support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154116	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154123	With Bill L 51, we propose to amend the land-zone rules of the planning law so that it does not require land-zone permission to resume the full-year use of a flex residence in the land zone when it has been used as a recreational residence for a number of years. At the same time, we provide municipalities with a number of new opportunities in the form of the possibility of issuing flex housing permits, which follow the home rather than the owner, issuing flex housing permits that do not lapse in connection with the resumption of the full-year use, and issuing binding pre-commitments for flex housing permits. So, in other words, the bill strengthens the security of flex housing owners and potential buyers for the long-term use of housing and later marketability. In a number of rural areas in particular, this can have a particularly positive effect on the housing market and, above all, on activity. The bill will thus also form part of the initiative presented by the government in a short time, growth and development throughout Denmark. I hope and believe that this will help to create fewer empty housing in rural areas, as there will now be better opportunities for them to be put into service, such as in rural areas. flex housing. At the same time, the change gives municipalities greater freedom to adapt the administration of the scheme to local conditions and thus strengthen opportunities to actively increase the demand for housing. But let me also conclude by saying that I would like to sign for the broad support that has been given to this bill. This is not entirely unexpected, since it is a re-submission of a legislative proposal from the last session, and I therefore hope that it will be dealt with in a good and flexible manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154306	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154324	The debate is open. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154339	The past few years have been unusual times in several ways in economic policy and in financial markets. This has also led to the need for bank packages, fiscal measures and changes in the legislation on the financial sector, the latter largely in the form of increased security requirements and tightening up supervision of banks. This bill is also justified by an abnormal phenomenon requiring adjustments to tax legislation. At the beginning of 2015, the interest rate reached a spectacularly low point in Denmark when the National Bank lowered interest rates on certificates of deposit to historic -0.75%. In a combination of European measures to knock down interest rates and defend the policy of the National Bank's fixed exchange rate policy, interest rates had to be reduced even more, even though interest rates were already quite low and, of course, had been for a longer period. And it turned out that the interest rate could well be below 0, even a bit below. The biggest speculators against the state turned out not to be foreign hedge funds, but Danish pension funds and the like. That much can then be given for patriotism in them. The Danish tax legislation has not been knitted together to deal with situations with negative interest rates, and in the time of the SR government, we ourselves initiated an adaptation of the legislation to situations with negative interest rates. This led to the bill adopted by the Danish Parliament in August, among other things. on the situation regarding the advance payment of tax by companies. The former Minister for Business and Growth, Henrik Sass Larsen, then also started work in relation to the mortgage sector and the situation there when the interest rates become negative. And that is among other things. the results of the work being transposed into legislation with the proposal here. The situation of negative interest rates has created uncertainties and could lead to some unfortunate incentive structures which could potentially lead to losses to the Treasury. It is not assessed by the Ministry of Taxation that this has happened yet, but one must, of course, take it into account when one is a legislator. The situation with negative interest rates will in no way become normal, but of course there is a need for legislation to deal with it. The draft law responds to a number of specific problems raised by mortgage credit institutions. Potential speculative possibilities are addressed, and in this context we think it is wise that the FSA and the National Bank have listened to the consultation responses in terms of how to do so. Then suddenly, when reading the bill and after this series of legislative adjustments due to the situation of negative interest rates and the financial sector conditions, a proposal also emerges regarding access to property valuations. The amendment of the law extends the scope of the complaint and now comes as a result of an error in the context of a previous law of 27 September 2014. There does not seem to be a particular connection with the other elements of the proposal, but the tax minister must have thought that it was too small a thing to get his own bill, and then it was right in this proposal that was the best place. We can talk about taste confusion, but we live with it, and the Social Democrats can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154640	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor for short remarks. Then it's Mrs Tilde Bork.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154647	Thank you. Here we are dealing with a legislative proposal which comes on the basis that, as a society, we have had a period in which negative deposit rates and, at the very least, a very low level of interest rates have been experienced. This situation needs to be dealt with in a purely legislative way, and we have dealt with this matter in the past in the Folketing in other areas of tax policy. This bill is very good in addition to the previous legislative proposals, but only with the difference that this proposal deals with other areas of our tax policy. More specifically, the draft law deals with purely fiscally negative interest rates, return on pensions and interest rates relating to certain pension schemes. The challenge is, among other things, that today there may be an incentive for pension companies to pay too much advance pension income tax in periods of negative interest and thus receive a higher rate of return than they would have obtained if compared with other options for placing the money. This is not, of course, appropriate, and is why this bill is being amended, so that the business of too much paid account tax reflects more of the alternative location options available. We in the Danish People's Party can support this change. The bill also deals with a number of other changes that, overall, are about dealing with situations where there may be a negative interest rate, all of which we in the Danish People's Party think are positive and see as hassle-free. With these words, I can inform you that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154821	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117154830	We find ourselves for the first time in the history of the National Bank in a situation where one of the bank's interest rates, the deposit note rate, is negative. This, of course, raises a number of issues that we have not encountered in the past. Some of the issues have been resolved by the National Bank itself. For example, the National Bank has: raised the folio framework for each bank to stand on its folio account at an interest rate of 0 per cent. This means that banks do not need to buy quite as many deposit certificates at a negative interest rate. This eases the pressure on banks and reduces the risk of banks' customers experiencing negative interest rates on their deposit accounts. However, not all issues can be resolved in this way. A large part of the legislation is not adapted to an interest rate environment with negative interest rates. Earlier this year, therefore, the government submitted L 6, which amended the interest rate rules on corporation tax. It was the first step that this bill could be seen as the next step. The aim of the draft law is to adapt the legislation so that the rules take into account negative interest rates in a wide range of areas. Overall, the problem is that it is unclear what right of deduction exists for negative interest costs and how negative interest income is to be taxed. In the case-law, only interest has been defined in a situation where interest rates are positive. This bill, in line with SKAT's lead signal from earlier this year, ensures that negative interest rates are generally equated with positive interest rates in fiscal terms. This means that interest costs are deductible for the lender and interest income is taxable for the borrower. The draft law also contains a large number of clarifications and adjustments which ensure that the legislation clearly describes how negative interest rates are to be treated. For example: will be mortgage loans with an interest rate floor of 0 per cent. to a greater extent fiscally equivalent to non-interest rate loans. This solves some of the challenges with negative interest rates that the mortgage industry itself has highlighted. In general, the industry itself has demanded many of these changes. The previous rapporteurs have already mentioned several of the amendments to the draft law, and I will not stand here and repeat them. Instead, I would just like to point out that according to the National Bank itself, the negative interest rates have gone off and become business as usual. So they are not disappearing for the time being, and that is why this bill is a much-needed update of the tax system. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155051	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155106	As some of the other rapporteurs have pointed out, this is the result of a rather remarkable and worrying development of our financial system, namely the phenomenon that we have seen in recent years a trend towards negative interest rates, in other words a situation in which money is actually being paid for borrowing money and vice versa to have deposits with, for example, money. National Bank. This is something quite new, and if you had told some economists ten years ago, they would probably have shook their heads. That is why I think it is important that we recognise here in the Folketing that when we deal with such a bill here, we are sailing in unknown waters, and I cannot help but be a little concerned about that. We do not know what the consequences of a long period of negative interest will be for our consumers, for business, for our economic system. The concern with me is also due to the fact that this development is not something we have chosen for ourselves. It is to a large extent the result of a speculative attack last winter on the Danish Crown, as the Social Democrats' rapporteur also mentioned, an attack which, fortunately, seems to have been averted, but nevertheless forced the National Bank to introduce negative interest rates. So I think this bill raises a more fundamental question about whether we really as a society can accept that speculators should be able to whip us around in the way we have seen it happen here. In my opinion, this is the fundamental problem that we are facing even after the financial crisis, even after the terrible consequences that we saw are still in a situation where it is the financial markets that can whip us around in the chain, in other words that elected parliaments must dance according to their pipe. Because that's what we're doing today. This shows that we have a financial system that is sick and that disease has not been cured, even with the efforts that have been made since the crisis. This proposal does not correct the situation, but simply adapts to the consequences of the prevailing circumstances. Finally, I would like to say that it is positive that the amendment tabled by the National Bank has been incorporated. This is a bit worrying, I think, that the government's own proposal had put forward a rather too generous scheme for the pension sector as it looks. All in all, however, Enhedslisten can support the proposal because it solves an acute problem, but I would like to stress once again that the whole discussion we have now is an expression of some much more fundamental underlying problems in our financial system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155358	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155408	L 45 is intended to ensure that the tax rules operate in periods of negative interest, and the draft law is linked to a previous draft law, L 6. Current legislation has been drawn up at a time when the current low level of interest rates was unthinkable. Negative interest rates are historically not something that has had to be considered, and therefore the legislation has not been geared at all to that situation. When the current rules were drawn up, it was not imagined that money could be made from borrowing money. A change in the situation requires a revision of the rules to make it clear what is applicable. The Liberal Alliance can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155443	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155457	In the alternative, we also welcome the fact that there is now a regulation in place so that negative interest rates can be dealt with in a more friendly way and without too much bureaucracy. So we are also in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155510	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155528	SF is also in favour of the proposal, but I fully agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it is symptom treatment. It is important symptom treatment because we are getting some inappropriate things right, but we are not seriously addressing the root of the evil. But we could discuss that, and we will also have many discussions about it in the future. It is quite clear that this is a situation that no one had foreseen a few years ago. But we have to take care of this one, also for the reason that when some get a deduction for interest, there are others who pay the price. Of course, that is not fair. So the SF also supports the proposal here but, like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, urges us to take a deeper debate on what mechanisms are under way. We have seen them especially since 2008, but they continue to appear in one way or another. There will certainly be a large number of other proposals in this Chamber to deal precisely with the consequences of the system that we have every time we see them. So I look forward to the longer discussion, but it will not be today. But the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155645	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155654	The rapid shifts in the global economy and the interaction between global economies have, of course, meant that the different economies are always vulnerable to shifts in other countries and to the pressure that, for example, is being exerted on the economy. can come towards the Danish crown and Danish business community. It has therefore been necessary for the National Bank to decree that there is a negative interest rate position in Denmark. This has meant that we are in a very unique situation in Denmark that we have never had before. For certain types of mortgage bonds and for some types of deposit accounts in banks there is a negative interest rate. It still seems quite imaginative to talk about it, but that is the reality of a few products, fortunately. This must also mean that there must be new tax rules which take into account deductions for negative interest rates. The Treasury has made sure of that. I think this is timely care, which is why it is also a proposal that the Conservative People's Party can support, because it relates to the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155809	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117155819	First of all, thank you for the positive reception of the proposal, which I am listening to from all the parliamentary parties present in this Chamber today. As a large number of rapporteurs have mentioned, this is, after all, a legislative proposal which is primarily linked to the legislative proposal that was put forward in July, among other things. interest on the settlement of corporation tax adopted by the Danish Parliament in August, so that interest now reflects more closely the alternative borrowing and placement rates of the companies. With the legislative proposal we are discussing here today, we are then following a series of further adjustments that ensure that we have the necessary legislation, which relates to the unlikely scenario a few years ago, that you have and can have negative interest rates. Parts of the bill also respond to business demands, especially investment and mortgage institutions, which may be challenged by negative interest rates. This is the case with the proposal for fiscal harmonization of mortgage loans with interest rate floors of 0 per cent. with interest rate floor loans, and this applies to the proposal on the deduction of negative interest rates for minimum taxed UCITS, so that the tax rules do not stand in the way of institutions investing in negative interest claims. With the proposal, the rules on the remuneration of the PAL tax, the pension return tax, will also be adapted at the same time, so that they, among other things, are adapted. to a greater extent reflects alternative interest rates on loans and placements from pension institutions. To sum up, therefore, as many rapporteurs have said, there are a number of clarifications to that legislation, so that the uncertainty about the tax treatment resulting from negative interest rates is removed. This basically strengthens legal certainty and reduces the risk of long-term doubt and dispute over citizens and taxes. I note, of course, the wider desire from among others. Enhedslisten and SF and possibly also other parties about a major discussion about why we are in this situation with negative interest rates. I would, of course, be happy to take that debate. I'm not sure it belongs right in this context, but I just remind you that you have to look at it globally. We are, after all, with the open economy that Denmark is and must be, and the European Community we are in, the global community that we are in in the economic area, largely dependent not on what we are doing at home in Denmark, but on a large number of major events, as a result of a globalised economy. I think it is important to see it in this context. Having said that, I would like to say that I look forward to the debate when it comes and the further consideration of the legislative proposal, and I will of course answer any questions that the committee may have. It is, of course, a relatively technical draft law, but that is why there can be both technical and political questions, and we answer them to the best of our ability.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117160136	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117160152	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117160229	Cross-border tax evasion and tax havens in different jurisdictions are a major challenge for the international community and have been so for a long time. In recent years it has been stirred up with political will to do something. One might think that it should be stronger, that we should go further, but there is progress. And there has also been extra focus on the whole area, among other things. In the light of this case of Lux Leaks, where one can see how profit taxation has been speculated on, and profits and taxation from different countries have been moved to avoid paying taxes. The sums the community is being cheated on are large. The cases of companies and individuals who aggressively speculate not to pay taxes in the country where they have earned their money are topical and many. In the EU alone, it is assumed that the Member States are missing a total of 1,000 billion annually. EUR in tax revenue due to tax evasion and speculation. It is as much money as it is allocated to the entire EU's next seven-year budget. According to the UN, developing countries lose a three-digit billion dollars annually because of the tax evasion of multinational companies. By its very nature, it is a cross-border phenomenon which must also be combated at international level. We must do what we can, nationally and take the measures we can here, and support the fact that this type of speculation is being fought hard through the European Union, the OECD and in other international contexts in which Denmark is involved. We should be a leading country in the work on further measures against tax havens and the speculation and tax evasion that they have. When we had government responsibility, we continued to focus on combating speculation and tax havens. We carried out several tax havens. The 2015 Finance Act also introduced measures against tax havens and aggressive tax planning that went beyond the line. This bill is a good continuation of the policy we followed at the time. The draft law proposes the implementation of two international standards which will help ensure the correct distribution of taxation between countries, ensure that fiscal transparency is contributed to taxation, and help to stop aggressive tax planning and shady tax agreements. This new international transfer pricing standard must be introduced, including: requires Danish multinational groups with an annual turnover of at least 5.6 billion. kr. will be obliged to produce country-by-country reports in accordance with this international standard. That's about this 750 million. euro, which is in the international standard. At the same time, we are implementing the OECD Global Standard for Reporting and Exchange of Account Information. It has been introduced into EU law by amending the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, and it is very good to move on with country-by-country reporting. I've been working on this area for a few years now. This has been something we have been calling for for many years: it is becoming visible and clear what turnover and earnings are in the various countries of these groups, so that we can ensure that there is proper taxation. This is an absolutely crucial instrument for, among other things: to put a stop to profit shifting, that is to say, to move profits from a country, how there is a higher tax, to a country where there is no tax or only a very small one. The proposal then sets the threshold for companies of 5.6 billion. kr., and that is what has now been agreed internationally. We think that it will be relatively few multinational companies that will be included in it when the amount is so high. We would like it to be worked further down by the year, so that more companies will be included in the preparation of these accounts, so that more companies can ensure transparency and proper taxation for even more companies. I also think it is worth pointing out that when it comes to developing countries I referred to a huge loss for them, it makes it unequally difficult for them to ensure good development in their countries when they do not have the resources to ensure that there is proper taxation. They cannot avail themselves of the same information development agreements that we are part of and that make our legislation even more stringent now. They include even more countries, including those which have so far been children of pain in the European Union. But they find it difficult to take advantage of the same opportunities, and this is also a point in which we should continue to work so that the developing countries have better opportunities to secure the correct taxation. They are losing much more money than foreign aid is being given, and it is an important step to ensure that they can have better development in the future. We have called for this government to give priority to work against tax havens as much as the old man did. And we've been worried if it would. This is a positive bill and we support it and will keep an eye on whether the new government is continuing its course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117160745	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117160751	Thank you. With this item on the agenda, we are dealing first with a legislative proposal aimed at making it easier to combat tax havens and tax evasion. This is done by implementing two international standards, which should help to ensure the correct distribution of taxation between individual countries. It is very positive that there is a focus on it, because it is important for the Danish People's Party that taxation takes place where the values are created and the money is earned. With this bill, there is a greater chance that this will happen and that it will become more transparent where values are created. If we look at the more concrete proposal, we see that it is about introducing new international standards for transfer pricing. The standards include: a requirement that undertakings with a turnover at group level of 5.6 billion. kr., will in future produce an annual country for country reporting. It shows the company's income, tax and economic activities in each country. The high turnover limit means that it is not only the largest undertaking that is being imposed on it, which is also fair enough. It is also where the most money can potentially be cheated. It must also be said that this creates a less administrative burden for individual companies. That's fine, too. This means that not all companies are required to do so. The second proposed by this bill is the introduction of OECD global standards for reporting and the exchange of account information. This is a standard introduced into EU law by amending the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. As I mentioned at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech, combating tax havens and tax evasion is important for the Danish People's Party. We fully agree, as the proposal also says, that it is best fought through international agreements. That is why it is positive that we are implementing the two international standards in this area. With those words, I can say that DF can therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117161020	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117161026	Thank you. This bill implements two OECD standards that contribute to the fight against tax havens and tax evasion. The first standard stems from the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project launched by the OECD and the G20 countries in 2013. On the basis of this project, the OECD has developed a number of documentation requirements which require multinational groups to report annually on their economic activity in all the countries in which the group operates. The documentation requirements will result from the turnover limit of 5.6 billion. kr. affect only the largest Danish groups. This country for country reporting, as it is called, makes it easier for tax authorities to find out whether groups move income to countries where income-generating activities are not carried out but where taxation is more favourable. The second standard is derived from the OECD Global Standard for Reporting and Exchange of Account Information. That standard was introduced into Union law in December 2014. The draft law introduces this standard into Danish law. The standard helps to increase transparency and facilitate cross-border cooperation. The Left basically believes that the companies that work and operate in Denmark must pay the tax to which they are obliged in Denmark. It is wrong if, through tax havens and tax evasion, they try to avoid paying that tax. However, the fight against tax havens and tax evasion is not a fight we can take alone in Denmark. It is essential that this fight be taken internationally. The two standards covered by this bill are precisely helping to ensure better international cooperation. The Left therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117161224	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117161237	The Enhedslisten, of course, supports this bill, with which we are, of course, strengthening our efforts against the opportunities for large multinational companies to escape or limit their tax payments. It is totally unreasonable and unacceptable that there are some companies, including Danish ones, with very large turnover, which do not contribute to the community at the level they should. This is highly provocative for all other taxpayers and, of course, also for the many small companies that contribute to the common fund with their tax payments. The Enhedslisten and before us other left-wing parties have over the years been working on this issue of getting multinational companies to pay taxes. Some progress has also been made. From the 1970s we raised the issue of the lack of tax payments for North Sea oil, and from the early 1990s Mr. Frank Aaen the discussion when we could see that, despite promises of improvements, there were still huge gaps in the tax laws and tax controls. Sir. Frank Aaen showed that a company such as Coca-Cola, despite a very large turnover in Denmark, did not pay taxes, which they still do not. Sir. Frank Aaen continued his work for many years and carried out a very thorough research himself which revealed that a number of large multinational companies did not pay taxes in Denmark. This has led to a number of tightenings and, incidentally, also the focus on profit shifting, i.e. the problems of moving profits out of the country, has led to a number of major legal proceedings. I think it's for Mr. Knox. Frank Aaen's honor that he is probably one of the members of parliament who have personally brought the most money into the treasury as a result of a long-standing effort in this area. The last thing we succeeded in doing under the previous government was that in order for us to be able to avoid Mr. Frank Aaen had to review the accounts of the multinationals every year, we got what is called open tax lists. We thus gained insight into the tax payments made by large companies so that citizens and other small businesses could see which companies contribute and which companies do not contribute taxes. Unfortunately, this is an initiative that the current government has closed down administratively. That is a pity, and it is a step backwards. Against this background, one can only welcome today's proposal for country-by-country reporting. This is an important step. This is a step that we have been working for for many years, and it will make it harder for large companies to move their income around to different countries or, we should say, exotic island communities where there is no or very, very low tax. That is why we support the draft law, but we must also say that there are a number of limitations in the proposal that we are not satisfied with. Other rapporteurs have also mentioned that this is a very high amount. It will be very few companies that will be included. That's a shame. Because we also have Danish companies which operate globally and which do not have a turnover to this extent, but which should also be looked at in the seams. Then we also see a problem in the lack of transparency, that is, the absence of public opinion. Now the Socialist rapporteur said it would become more visible. Unfortunately, it is only for the authorities that it will become more visible, not for the public, and that is a problem, because we can see that this debate over the years has been brought forward by the very public's involvement in it. It is when the Ekstra Bladet has been able to make front pages on the basis of Mr. Frank Aaen's research that companies get rid of 0 kr. This is, for example, the case. about a company like Q8, which has operated in Denmark for decades, but has never paid a penny in taxes. This has been the focus of attention which has led to a number of tightenings. And that is why it is a pity that there is not also openness and publicity about this country for country reporting. Finally, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, it is a problem that these rules do not cover the developing countries sufficiently, because the developing countries are, if any, severely affected, even more than the developed countries of the OECD. It has also emerged from some of the criticisms made by some of the developing countries' organizations in Denmark that the developing countries have not been involved in the preparation of this framework agreement either. This is a pity, and we in Denmark must work to ensure that they are included in the future, including with the technical assistance and assistance needed to enable them to do so. Finally, and a little further, I would like to congratulate the government on this proposal. This is an important step in the right direction, but it is a pity that the Danish development organisations have not been involved in the consultation. An organization like the IBIS, which has really been preoccupied with this for a long time and has focused on it, has some people with very great knowledge in this area. However, the Enhedslisten can support the proposal because, despite its shortcomings, it is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117161755	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117161805	Thank you. L 46 is about combating tax havens and tax evasion. In the Liberal Alliance, we make a sharp distinction between illegal tax evasion and legitimate priorities that Danish and international companies had to make in order to run their business. We want tax rules that are as simple and transparent as possible, which will make it easier for companies to comply with the rules while at the same time making it easier to prosecute those who do not. At the same time, we want to reduce corporate tax to 12.5%. in order to make Denmark more attractive in relation to investment. Such a priority on the Danish side will contribute enormously to our opportunities to create prosperity in the future. Multinational groups, both Danish and foreign, are already presenting a wide range of data to make it easy to see them in the cards. We have nothing against transparency, but we also have an interest in the fact that new standards do not constitute an unnecessary burden on companies and that information provided to the authorities is treated with complete confidentiality, as this may be information that is essential to the competitiveness of the company. Multinational companies are used to dealing with tough documentation requirements, but this is not necessarily a sufficient reason to demand more. I intend to follow L 46 in the legislative process so that we can assess the importance of the new burdens imposed on companies, and hence their fairness and functionality in relation to what the government wants to achieve with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117161936	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117161943	In the alternative, we also take a very positive view of this, and we support it. And then, in general, I think that Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten marks something important, because it is not publicly available or open if only the tax authorities have access to the information. That is why this is leading to a general debate and a review of the consultation responses we have received and a further study of what we really mean when we talk about something being open here in the Folketing. It is no good if journalists and NGOs do not have access to these data, and it is in closed forums. So we support but look forward to becoming wiser during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162020	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162040	This is a very fine bill we are discussing today. This is something that we have been discussing for many years at least in the four years I have been sitting in here and have also changed tax havens. I think that Mr. Pelle Dragsted was very kind to the government. One can say that it is of course very good that the government is implementing it here in Danish legislation, but if we are to be completely honest and that was the case with the previous government too, so Denmark did not either go ahead or go ahead. So, the OECD can say many things about, but they have really put their weight into setting an international agenda and bringing us with them, one might say. Indeed, even the Commission came up with 29 proposals in 2012 to the Member States on what could be done in relation to tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. But it is a very good legislative proposal and, of course, we are voting in favour of it. There are some problems which my colleagues from the Alternative and Enhedslist in particular have also raised in relation to secrecy. At home, we cannot find out with this bill why a large number of Danish companies act as they do. It could, for example, be done. be why one of Denmark's largest companies has a large number of companies on Bermuda. Why are they lying right on Bermuda? This gives both the media at home, but also us as elected representatives, a reduction in our ability to really run this agenda. As my colleague from the Social Democratic Party said, this is a huge problem. We are talking about 1,000 billion. euro alone in the EU. That is 12 times more than what we give in development aid. It could be said that if we solved this problem and they solved it themselves, and if there was not so much tax fraud in the developing countries, then it was worth 12 times more than the development aid we provide. Corruption is one of the biggest barriers to this, but it is also important that we help to build transparent structures and tax systems in these countries even more than we actually do. For they are trapped in a debt trap when mysteriously there is never a surplus from gold mines in Ghana or diamond mines in other African countries, which are some of the latest examples we have seen. But country-to-country reporting is really good. It doesn't give a hundred percent openness, but it will certainly be easier to follow these subsidiaries. The same applies to transfer pricing, which is not the final solution either, but it does provide a better insight into how to move profits, moving profits from one country to another by, for example: to overpay for benefits or for purchases of goods. So I would like to sign up to the current government and also the previous one, even though we might have wanted even more and say that this is something we keep taking part in. I would like Denmark to really take the lead. In any case, however, we are participating in the cooperation that is taking place in the European Union and, in particular, in the OECD and elsewhere. One final remark is that those, this aggressive tax planning and tax cheating, are the poorest countries in the world. Billions are channelled out when you pull gold, minerals, etc. Up. That is also why it is really a pity that the OECD cooperation, which I have praised from up here, has so much secrecy, so little involvement of the developing countries and indeed of organisations. And there I would think it would be very good if the Danish government took civil society more with them. They are the ones who work right, very much with this and have been doing it for many years. So it's just a quiet call for it. But it is a good step on the way, and the SF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162458	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162507	It is positive, it is good, and it is also relevant that Denmark has implemented the two international standards in order to achieve a more correct distribution of taxation between countries. We in the Conservatives generally support more openness on tax treatment and we also support more effective tax control. It is only right and proper to pay taxes in the countries in which you operate and work and to help finance the society in which you live. We also support closer cooperation between the tax authorities of the various countries. And that is what the two standards are all about, both with regard to the new international transfer pricing standards, but also with regard to the introduction of OECD global reporting standards. So because of the fact that it provides more transparency, more openness, because it provides more effective tax control and closer cooperation between the authorities, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162602	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162606	Thanks for the speech. I noted that the rapporteur said that the Conservative People's Party generally supports more openness on tax payments, and on that basis I would just like to ask: what is the point of closing open tax lists which allowed citizens to see whether different companies contributed taxes and which enabled Mr. Frank Aaen could be free from having to do those studies himself? It is a good idea that this is something that comes from the authorities and that the public has the opportunity to see. It could be that, as the political consumer would say, products from companies that do not want to contribute will be passed by in the supermarket, and then you will take the product next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162651	Well, I and the Conservative People's Party support as much openness as possible, not least because it will then be clear to many people how much Danish companies contribute to the Danish welfare society. We can take some of the big companies and see what they employ by people and what they have of tax revenue overall. The problem with the open tax lists is, in my opinion, that they are misleading. I mean, I want as much openness as possible, because I think it is for the benefit of businesses and for the benefit of society. But open tax lists cover different situations, and if a company has one year decided to invest massively in research and development and innovation, it may look as if you are not paying anything in tax, but that company is investing massively in the future. And then you can be prügelknabe, you can get beat up for something that is relatively unfair to get beat up for, because you just invest in the future. That's why I don't like the open tax lists. I think they create envy; they create a comparison on a wrong basis that is not relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162752	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162753	Well, I sow no doubt that most Danish companies contribute and thank you for it; it is important both through direct tax payments and of course also by employing Danes who pay income tax. After all, all citizens do, and I think that is quite appropriate. It is true that there may be good reasons why a company does not pay tax. It may be that they write off some investments or other, but that can then be explained in the public debate. The problem now is that companies can hide that they do not pay taxes because they, for example, pay taxes. Makes this profit shifting, that is to say, in artificial ways to move their profits out of the country, and then the citizens will no longer have insight into it. I think that is a problem, because it is an important part of our ability to act democratically that we can say: these companies that act in this way and are unsolidarous to society, we do not want to support buying their goods. So why don't Conservatives and the government think this through one more time?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162855	Well, I also think it's unsolidarian if you don't pay taxes in Denmark when you have your business in Denmark and you make money in Denmark. However, I do not believe that the way to solve this challenge is to create open tax lists. But it is, among other things, the implementation of the two standards that the government is laying down here, as well as other measures. But open tax lists provide such a form of public law that I do not think is reasonable in a democratic society governed by the rule of law. Because we should not ask anyone to come out and explain why they pay what they do in tax, that is, if there is a very good justification behind it. Well, we don't do that for me and Mr. Cole. Pelle Dragsted's case. Well, we pay the tax that we have to pay. And companies cannot be required to pay more than they do. They have to pay what they have to pay, not a penny more or less.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162944	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117162954	Thank you for the positive reception of the bill. I have also noted, although the Radical Left is not in the Chamber today, that Mr. Martin Lidegaard of the Radical Left supports the proposal. The government has a strong focus on minimising and limiting tax havens and tax evasion and combating it as far as possible. At the same time, the government is convinced that tax havens are best minimised and limited through international agreements and strong international cooperation. Denmark must not go alone in the fight against tax evasion. We cannot limit, minimize and combat tax havens alone through austerity at home. That is why the government's position is that the fight against tax evasion must also take place at international level between authorities across borders. The draft law, as a number of rapporteurs have already mentioned, proposes, in line with Denmark's international commitments, to implement two international standards, both of which aim to increase transparency and strengthen regulatory cooperation across national borders. The proposal thus helps to ensure that SKAT has the best conditions to take action against taxpayers who try to hide wealth and income in tax havens. Firstly, it is proposed to introduce new international transfer pricing standards. The standard imposes a turnover of at least 750 million on multinational groups. EUR 5.6 billion. kr., to prepare a country-by-country report annually. The country-by-country report shall include: contain information about the company's income, taxes and economic activity. Secondly, it is proposed to introduce the OECD's global standards for reporting and exchange of account information. As a result of the implementation of the new international standard, it is proposed that the interest rate tax directive be repealed, as the directive will only have marginal significance. The cost of having two parallel systems will weigh more heavily here, at least in the opinion of the government. So, as a broad range of rapporteurs have also mentioned, the bill supports the limitation and minimisation of tax havens and tax evasion through international agreements. Then, of course, there is the question of openness raised by a couple of rapporteurs. I would just like to say that country for country reports are treated confidentially, and they do, because they have to. There is, of course, confidentiality of confidential business information, and there must be, and therefore it is essential that they be treated confidentially. The country-by-country report may of course potentially contain business sensitive information such as: may affect the competitiveness of an undertaking if the information is made public. That is why it is also part of international cooperation. This is therefore an international standard, and it is as part of the standard that the information is treated confidentially. Denmark will therefore not be able to participate in international cooperation if we start making the reports publicly available, as some would like. Then, of course, there is the question that some have raised about the IBIS and others who are doing a great deal of work in order to pay taxes in developing countries. It is also an issue which is dealt with indirectly here. I would say that I think the IBIS is doing a good and great job. However, I find it a little difficult to see how they fit into this bill, but I certainly notice when the IBIS says something in this area, especially when it comes to building tax systems in developing countries, which is something that this government warmly and wholeheartedly supports. The fact that developing countries have their own income base means that development aid and aid must be provided to a lesser extent. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place and I look forward to a good and constructive committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163405	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163409	Thank you, Minister. I fully agree that Denmark cannot go alone in public about this. It is more a regret that this is the way it is. The minister says it can damage competitiveness. Yes, but that applies to all companies, so that must put them all at a disadvantage in terms of competition. But leave it alone. With regard to the IBIS, I would say that I think those organisations should have been consulted. After all, they and their international partners are some of those who have lobbied to such an extent, even in the context of the OECD, to get these things in place. So I think they should have been heard. However, my question is actually about something else, and that is also what I asked the previous rapporteur, namely the question of open tax lists. I simply do not understand why the government has shut down the openness that enabled citizens to see whether Danish companies are contributing to the common fund. So can the Minister just briefly explain the wisdom of that decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163510	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163511	As far as the IBIS is concerned, I do not actually know if they are on the consultation list. You have not given a hearing answer, but I should like to give the undertaking that if there is a legislative proposal in the field of international taxation, we will put them on the consultation list. They can then make their contribution, and if it is a good and constructive contribution that fits into government policy, then we will also listen to them. It is not a guarantee I can give, but it is certainly the framework. Then there is the question of open tax lists, and there I actually feel in the same way as the Conservative rapporteur, whom I think was well illustrated, that the reason why companies do not pay taxes may, of course, be due to the fact that they make tax evasion, but that this could also be due, and I think that is more true, that they do not make money or that they use the deductions that are entirely legal. And I still think they should be allowed to do so without being hung out for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163611	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163614	Fortunately, however, there is a public debate in which companies can explain why they do not pay taxes. So it's not like because you're on this list, you're on display at Christiansborg or something. Hey, why has Q8 not paid taxes in Denmark for decades despite high turnover? Is it just because of some investment and depreciation, or is there something here that needs to be looked at? I think it's too bad. Democracy is also about openness, and democracy is also about citizens being able to gain an insight from which to act, for example. by saying that you just don't want to deal with those unsolidaristarian companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163659	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163700	I would, in effect, agree with Mr. Pelle Dragsted, if only we had a nuanced debate. The problem is • and it turns out if you open a newspaper • that the nuances do not always come along, and I understand that there are some companies that feel hung up, like for example. the telecommunications company 3. If I am not mistaken, they have quite legitimately had a deficit, and that has led to them not having paid taxes for a few years. I think I read an article a little while ago saying that they were counting on doing so in 2015. But I understand that there are some people who feel hung up, and that is why we need to consider whether we want to have open tax lists. I would say that this is not something the government has at this stage taken a position on, although I know there has been a public debate in which some parties have called for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163746	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163749	I must start by regretting, and I think it is a good thing that the Minister for Tax mentions the Radical Left in his collection here. I had promised, but forgot it is the second time it happens to greet Martin Lidegaard and note that the Radical Left could not meet, but supports the bill. I regret that again, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard. I think I owe him a beer outside this room. But that is now the case. Then I will sign for the tax minister to indicate that the IBIS, which has now become a Danish element of Oxfam, which is really working on this at international level, can become one of those heard in the context of legislative proposals in this area. We ask for it to be confirmed in writing during the committee procedure, to have it printed. But I think that is positive. Then I would ask the Minister of Taxation to comment on what I and others mentioned in relation to the amount of money, i.e. whether the government will work internationally to expand the number of companies that will be covered by this obligation to make country by country accounts. I hope that the Minister of Taxation will be able to reply in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163858	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117163859	At any rate, the government is based on the principle that we must work to minimise and limit tax evasion and havens through international agreements. It is also true that there is a desire to go beyond what has now been agreed. But it has to be done properly. I do not think I can give any commitments here today or say what government policy should be in future international agreements. But when you have formulated that policy and we know it is obvious that it is taking place, then you want to go further down this road internationally. So it is a commitment to move further down the road we now have with this country for country reporting, where the limit is 750 million. kr., which should not rule out that the limit may be lower. What is most important for my party, for the Left and for the government, is that it takes place as part of international cooperation and is not Danish alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164001	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164003	I can understand that. I just mean that international cooperation is made up of a number of different countries that are involved, and there you are allowed to raise your voice and say that so far, so well it is good that we get it here, it may be a rather potent weapon in the fight against tax havens, but its potency also depends on how many companies you actually allow to include it. So our clear call must be for the government to put its strength behind it, and I hope that during the committee procedure the tax minister will be able to get clarification on behalf of the government so that it can be given a commitment. We must take it as far as we can get today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164044	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164045	But I can at least give that commitment that we can fully clarify in committee how the government will act internationally. The reason why I am not giving the undertaking here today is to be perfectly honest that I have not fully grasped our negotiating position, and although I think so, Mr President. Jesper Petersen argues for, makes good sense and is common sense, so there can be other ways of achieving the goal of minimising and limiting tax havens than just expanding the group of companies covered by the country's reporting. But that will be clarified in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164118	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164134	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164222	Thank you for that, President. This bill, as everyone is aware, is a joint legislative proposal on a number of different amendments and adjustments, so that our VAT laws and a number of different tax laws are brought into line with case law, EU law and administrative practice. So whether it is about regulating the limits for VAT refunds, or whether it is about giving the Treasury, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence the opportunity to administer the VAT drawback system for embassies and representations according to normal practice, we find it only quite sensible in the Social Democratic Party. In addition, we welcome the abolition of the tax-free allowance for travellers, bringing legislation into line with the principle that there is no deduction of expenditure on the acquisition of tax-free income. Last but not least, also supports the part of the bill that is about tax-freeting the Prime Minister for private use of Marienborg. We do so for two different reasons, first and foremost to bring the Danish administration into line with the one found in Norway and Sweden, and secondly to respect what was at least the will of the will of the Supreme Court lawyer, C. L. David, when he in his time handed Marienborg over to the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164351	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164404	Thank you. Here we are dealing with a proposal which is what is called a law of assembly, as it contains a number of different things. That is what can be called a pick-up heat, where a number of minor changes are specified or made, each of which is too small for an independent legislative proposal. As I said, there are many changes to this proposal, and I will not go into detail with them all, but just highlight a few individual ones. One element is to provide SKAT with a more efficient tool to ensure that foreign suppliers of goods and services to Danish consumers are allowed to register VAT as required by the VAT Act, a tool that aims to improve VAT control of the payment data, which is positive as they help to ensure that foreign companies settle the correct VAT for Denmark. I note that there have been a number of consultation responses which have pointed out the importance of the fact that only the payees are provided data on, and not the individual identity of the Danish consumer, which is disclosed. It is gratifying that this has been addressed in the bill that it is clarified that the information received by SKAT is anonymised in relation to the buyer's information. Another measure I would like to mention is a quite small but logical change. It is proposed that in future people exempt from SKAT will not be entitled to a transport allowance. It will typically be employees of international organisations. The reason for this is a decision by the National Tax Court which changed the practice at the time, but this bill comes back to the more normal practice of tax policy, namely that income must be taxable in order to qualify for deduction. The last thing I want to mention is a small thing, but probably also the one that will raise the most attention in this bill. It is the introduction of a tax exemption for the private use of Marienborg for the Prime Minister in office at all times. The change will give Denmark the same rules as Norway and Sweden in relation to their Prime Minister's use of their corresponding official residences. It is worth noting here that the Prime Minister is not allowed to move his residence to Marienborg, but it will be the case that the minister can stay there without being taxed, i.e. if the Prime Minister, for example, is able to stay there. is late with a meeting and has other to-dos at Marienborg the next day. In conclusion, I can say that the law is a collective law which contains a number of different elements, so that there may be things in which we will delve into more during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164742	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164746	Thank you and welcome to the platform, rapporteur. It is about this with Marienborg, because it is the case that the same rules apply to the Prime Minister as to everyone else, namely that if you make a good available by your employer or anything else, you are also taxed by it, as all other Danes do. The rapporteur then says that these are the same rules as in Sweden and Norway, and that may be true. Now the Danish People's Party may not just be inspired most by Sweden when it comes to legislation, but leave it at that. My question is actually simply: does it not appear to the rapporteur at all that different rules should apply to the Prime Minister of the country than to all other Danes when it comes to taxation of such goods?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164844	When the Prime Minister has some meetings out at Marienborg, I can see the advantage of not going to Copenhagen to spend the night. Then, of course, there is some taxation in it, but if Norway and Sweden can, why should we not also be able to do so? Then there's also a will from him... now I can't remember the name of him... that it should be free of charge, that we should be allowed to use it. It may also benefit the Social Democrats if they get a Prime Minister or if the Enhedslisten gets a Prime Minister one day. So you'll get the good stuff sometime.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164923	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117164925	Don't lure me beyond my ability. No, but I do not really think it is an argument as to what the rules are like in other countries. Of course, we can discuss whether there are any reasons for this, and we must take that into account in the debate. As I see it, this is a rather far-reaching tax exemption for the use of what I think can be called a magnificent villa to Lyngby Lake. I hope that the rapporteur agrees that at least as a general principle it should be the case that the rules applicable to both ministers and members of parliament should be roughly the same as to ordinary Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165004	We will ask some questions during the next committee meeting about how often it should be used and whether he should live there permanently or permanently or what the objective is. We have some specific questions for the committee to be absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165025	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165037	This bill has many elements. The draft law must basically ensure clearer rules and a strengthened legal base in the field of taxation. The legislative proposal contains a large number of amendments, and I will not go through them all here, but just give a few examples of how the legislative proposal clarifies the legislation and strengthens the legal basis. The bill introduces, for example: a legal basis for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence to administer VAT refunds for embassies, international organisations and NATO. In this way it will be clarified which entities and persons are eligible for VAT refunds. The bill also introduces a control clause allowing SKAT to request authorisation from the Tax Council to obtain payment information for the purposes of VAT control of distance selling and electronically supplied services. An increasing proportion of the trade takes place online, and it is often in foreign web shops. It is therefore important for SKAT to be able to carry out effective VAT controls. This makes it easier to ensure that foreign companies settle the correct VAT in Denmark. The draft law also provides for the abolition of the transport allowance for exempt persons so that no deduction can be made for expenses not related to tax-free income. Others have also mentioned this. There are several such minor adjustments and adjustments. Common to all of them is that they contribute to a strengthened legal base and clearer rules, which is obviously difficult to oppose. Finally, I should like to mention the most mentioned part of the draft law, which is that the Prime Minister's taxation of Marienborg is treated in the same way as the taxation of Bureau flats. We think it is very fair that the Prime Minister should have the same conditions as the members of the Bureau to use his place of service, and that is also the case in Norway and Sweden. The Left can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165238	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165242	Thank you, President. Now it is the Bureau apartments that must be used as an argument to tax-free the Prime Minister. I am, of course, basically of course, that there are quite great privileges in being a minister and a member of parliament, and I do not think there is any need for any more. And if you constantly take the best of all worlds, if you may say so, and transfer it to others, so that every time there is an improvement in the field of ministers, it can be said that it should also apply to members of parliament and vice versa. In other words, my basic point of departure is that I really think it is very important that citizens should be able to recognise the conditions that apply to themselves in the circumstances that apply to politicians. And that is why I find it rather problematic that the Prime Minister should be exempt from taxation of a good that other citizens will be taxed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165342	I do not believe that the Prime Minister or politicians in general have very attractive conditions. I know very well that the Enhedslisten has a completely different view on this than I do. But if you compare with others with the same area of responsibility, I do not think you can say that. Now I am well aware that Enhedslisten says that just because the Bureau members have this access does not mean that the Prime Minister must have similar access. Now the Enhedslisten has himself a Bureau member who certainly has this access. It may well be that one does not think that the Prime Minister should have the same opportunities as the members of the Bureau, but I think it is reasonable that one should be able to use the accommodation when it is there and, moreover, it is in accordance with the way it has been passed on to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165422	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165424	We have good terms. In other words, the other day we had a debate on pensions, where a majority in the Danish Parliament raised the pensionable age to 68 years, while a large majority of the honourable Members in this House can retire at the age of 60. There are just 8 years of difference between the general population and the politicians. I don't think our pension scheme and the speed with which we earn pensions can be matched by other people... it's supposed to be by the top bank managers and pension fund managers. So the terms are good. I am quite open to weakening the conditions of the members of parliament who have an apartment in the Bureau. The Left simply has to put forward the proposal and then we can achieve harmonisation between the rules of the Prime Minister and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165514	I'm not interested in weakening the terms of anyone. I mean, sir. Pelle Dragsted and I both have a retirement age that is not 60 years old. For the Folketing has changed the pension rules, and this applies both to Mr. Pelle Dragsted and myself. So there we have tried to keep up with time and change the pension rules in here, compared to the fact that age also increases for us, just as it does for the rest of the population. So if you look at what has been of articles recently, you can see that a prime minister in Denmark receives less in salary than a regional director. One can, of course, discuss whether one has more or less influence and more or less responsibility as Prime Minister than one has as director of a region. But that is how we can discuss so much, and I am well aware that we have different views on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165555	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165613	Thank you. This is another such pile of proposals where we are going to discuss a bouquet of changes in tax legislation. Most of them we are in the Enhedslisten positive towards, and I have no comment to make on them. I will take note of that part of the proposal, which is also the part that makes Enhedslisten critical of the proposal as a starting point. And this is not so surprising the question of the tax exemption for the Prime Minister's use of Marienborg. This is something completely new which has not been the case for a large number of previous prime ministers, and I have not heard that the current rules have caused problems. I also wonder a little bit about the argument that that was what was being willed. I think it was a few decades ago that it was bequeathed, and I have not heard anyone complaining about the rules that have been in place so far. So I think that might be a rather thin argument. When we are critical as a starting point, this is due in particular to two things. Firstly, we think it is a rather strange signal to send. When other Danes are made available by their employer, for example, we are taxed by them, and I think that neither the Prime Minister nor other politicians should be subject to special rules in that area, certainly not when one considers how zealous the SKAT and, above all, the social authorities are towards the citizens. Well, in the social field, we have a veritable duvet lift where they have to go out and check whether you sleep x times with your girlfriend, because then they can draw some benefits. There is some disproportionate distortion in this which I do not think is a fortunate signal to send from here to the citizens. Secondly, in the Enhedslisten, we simply have a general reluctance to further privileges for politicians. In the view of the Enhedslisten, we have not too few, but too many privileges, and that applies to both ministers and politicians. Now there is a comparison with what a regional director earns. Yes, but it could be that one should look at the violent explosion in the salaries of public bosses rather than argue that already well-paid politicians should keep up. That is why, as a starting point, we are also critical of this because, as I read the proposal, and I hope that we can clarify this in the course of the committee procedure, the Prime Minister or other members of the government will have quite a free framework for the tax-free movement of goods in the villa up in Lyngby. But I hope to be clear about that. In addition to this, we also have a small concern about the personal data and the exchange of information in the Vehicle Register, which I will also try to clarify during the committee procedure. After that, the Enhedslisten will take a final position on the proposal. I have promised to say from the SF's rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be present, that neither can the SF support the part of the proposal that goes on the tax exemption of the Prime Minister's use of Marienborg, but can also support the other parts of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165936	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Socialists. No, it was a mistake. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117165956	L 56 is a joint proposal with a number of different adjustments which have little to do with each other. Private use of Marienborg tax-free with this bill. We have chosen to look at this in a positive and relaxed way in the Liberal Alliance. Everyone has an interest in Marienborg being able to be used by the Prime Minister in office at any time, and we do not want to cultivate pettiness in this context. We are aware that the Prime Minister actually earns significantly less than many top people, both in the private and in the public sector. It is important to bear in mind, however, that it is not only the Prime Minister who sees the Danish tax rules as restrictive ties in relation to their general freedom of movement and the way they want to organise their lives. The Danes are struggling with increasing ground guilt, high personal taxes, and we are world champions in taxing cars. However, the draft law also contains a number of other elements to which I am more reluctant. For example, the part dealing with electronic goods and services. SKAT considers that they do not have sufficient control over VAT payments and want access to more information. It is assured that Danish private individuals will be anonymised, but I would like to have some reservations here. SKAT is currently in a situation where it has been more than difficult to handle information in its own IT systems, and a plan has not yet been put in place that will sufficiently correct this. At the same time, SKAT already has so many powers to obtain information about the Danes, so even the police and PET are envious. I also note the part about SKAT being given the possibility of providing data from the Vehicle Register, which is currently subject to professional secrecy. This is, for example, the case. on the names of users, owners and the like. At the same time, it opens up to provide the data to foreign authorities such as: police and traffic authorities. In the Liberal Alliance, we want draft legislation in SKAT to be screened in the future in relation to possible implications in the area of legal certainty. Such a screening would have been good to have in relation to a legislative proposal such as this in order to have professionals assessing which powers are reasonable for SKAT and which are not. If we do not have such a screening, we must make an assessment of the overall legislative proposal in relation to the consultation responses that we have access to and the treatment that is going on in committee, and we will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170223	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170228	Thank you, President. It is not surprising that I would like to ask about the tax exemption on the use of the villa by the Prime Minister. We do not want to be petty, the rapporteur says, and I think that is very sympathetic. The rapporteur also lists a number of the problems that exist in the SKAT, which, in my opinion, are very much due to decades of severe cuts, which have meant that SKAT simply cannot provide the services it ought to provide to its citizens and that there are a number of very serious problems. I also think that there is a rule jungle which one could easily discuss if one could make simpler. But my question is: is it not rather strange to start from above, starting with the Prime Minister; to introduce special rules for the Prime Minister rather than ensuring proper rules for all Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170326	Well, L 56 is a mess box of completely different elements that, as I said, have nothing to do with each other. So I'm actually a little impressed by the fact that sir... Pelle Dragsted nevertheless manages to create some kind of coherence between the different elements. When it comes to Marienborg, we have simply estimated that okay, it's a building that anyone can have an interest in being used for representation, fine enough, okay. We just want to remind the government that the Danes are also suffering from Danish tax rules which limit them in their development. When it comes to the SKAT, the rapporteur is also aware that we in the Liberal Alliance are spending a great deal of time restoring order or, let us say, the functionality of the SKAT. We are actually very concerned about this. I've got 15 seconds. It goes too far to say what we would like to do about it. However, there are a large number of things that need to be done to ensure that tax authorities can actually do what they have to do, namely collect taxes in a proper and fair way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170426	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170430	We can only agree with that, which is why, of course, we are also sorry that the agreement that has been made, among other things. with the Liberal Alliance, really means that there will be the same number of employees in the SKAT next year as this year, because you just close holes, and that is simply not enough. But I'm glad the Liberal Alliance is preoccupied with that problem. So are we in the Enhedslisten. But the rapporteur says: for representative purposes. But there is already the possibility today of using Marienborg for representative purposes. So can the rapporteur not say a few more words about this extension of the tax exemption, if I may say so, these special rules? Why does the rapporteur think this is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170509	Yes, the rapporteur can do that. As far as I can understand, it has something to do with people, for example. would like to have overnight stays, and that changes the rules. We don't mind. It's okay. When it comes to SKAT, which is the very second part we are talking about here, the National Audit Office has been out saying that SKAT is making a completely wrong priority, that is to say that it simply spends too much resources on administration and too little on what is the core task. This has actually been exactly the analysis that we have also put on in the Liberal Alliance when we went into this work of cleaning up the SKAT. So that is something we are very aware of. More resources need to be spent on production, so to speak, and less on administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170549	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170556	I have a few observations on the draft law, and I can start by saying that the alternative is positive and will back it up. This is interesting for someone who, like me, comes from a party who has come to parliament to make almost everything about being relatively new in the position of tax rapporteur and yet have an opinion on such a single proposal as this, which is as complex as it actually is. There I find it interesting to know for those sitting at home that it is, therefore, because we have some things that work very well in Denmark. For example: If you do not exchange all the official work when there has been a choice, then that means that such things can be done here. Because there are some knowledge-holders who have knowledge that means that, as politicians, we should not act as experts, but should be precisely tools, intermediaries, communicators and negotiators, so that we can make things work. But there is therefore a very, very strong civil service which sits under changing governments and makes this possible, and I am delighted that, in my view, an almost crazy proposal with so many different things, which in reality have little to do with each other, can still be dealt with as fairly as it happens. I think that's impressive. It is just such a general consideration, then there are some challenges in what we will be addressing during committee work to see if there is anything to come for. Among other things: is sir. Pelle Dragsted's remarks about the use of Marienborg, something that such a policy of value stick to something somewhere inside me. So it is really, really hard to see why it is reasonable. On the other hand, I must also say that, as in the area of taxation, where we have a vision that the Danes should be the people in the world who are happiest to pay taxes because we have the very best service and have the very best country, I also feel a bit that if the Prime Minister becomes the best possible Prime Minister by having these extended rights, then I actually think that the Prime Minister has a job where there may be a little special treatment. So if we assume that the Prime Minister will be an even better prime minister of this, then we can also support the fact that there is this special rule which is a little in the heart and which might normally have led to the alternative demanding an answer. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170806	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170819	This is a proposal with all the good things from the sea, as several of the rapporteurs have already said. It has been discussed a little whether the Prime Minister should be given the opportunity to use Marienborg tax-free in connection with events, regardless of who is Prime Minister. The will of the Supreme Court lawyer clearly states that it is a residence and a holiday residence for the benefit of the country's current prime minister at all times. I think it is right and proper that, regardless of who is Prime Minister, we treat him in a proper and fair way, as is the case, for example. Members of the Bureau here in the Folketing, who can also use the official residences of the members of the Bureau in this House for tax-free work. So, of course, we can support the bill and also the other elements that are in it. However, the part which has been reasonably controversial here is something we can particularly support. Because we are against envy policy, we are against policy of indignation, and it is, of course, right and proper for our elected representatives and also our prime minister to be treated properly. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170938	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117170943	The rapporteur says that the Prime Minister must be treated properly and fairly, and I think so. For me, proper and fair means that the Prime Minister must be subject to the same rules as the rest of the population. I think it is best for our people's government that this is the case and that there are as few special rules as possible for politicians and ministers. And that is the point here: you want to make a special rule that exempts the Prime Minister or other members of the government precisely from paying taxes of a value of glory, of a good that they are given and on which other Danes in the same situation would have to pay taxes. So is that fair and proper?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171030	In general, I think that we should treat the Danes more generously also in relation to the tax authorities and in relation to the taxation of some of the things that belong to the job. That's where I think we're getting too hard on people. In this case, however, we are dealing with the Prime Minister in the same way as, for example, the Prime Minister. The members of the Bureau here in the Folketing, who have a Bureau apartment, of which they do not pay taxes if they use it in connection with the work in here. I think that's treating people the same. Of course, the Prime Minister must have the opportunity to spend the night at Marienborg where there are events there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171104	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171109	Now members of parliament may not be the best to compare with, if you do not want too many privileges for ministers, because the members of parliament are subject to some special rules and privileges that many Danes might like to be included in. So we could also consider harmonizing the other way and removing the special rule for those members of the Bureau who have access to an extra accommodation. These are fine homes, and if you want to use them for anything other than purely representative purposes associated with the work, I think it is quite fair that, like many other Danes who have the same good at their disposal, you pay taxes on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171147	That's a fair enough point. However, we insist that we think it is reasonable for the Prime Minister to have the opportunity to stay tax-free at Marienborg, in connection with his job or she doing her job if there comes a female prime minister next time. So we hold that we think is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171205	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171209	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the largely positive reception of the draft law. After all, the draft law brings together a wide range of elements in which the overall objective is to strengthen the legal basis and to simplify and clarify a number of provisions in different tax and tax laws. It is important that legislation in the field of taxation is clear, precise and, moreover, easily understandable, and ultimately it benefits both Danish business, citizens and tax authorities. One of the elements that I would like to highlight is the authorisation for VAT control of payment data, which is well-marked information which has anonymised who the buyer is. It is important that Danish companies can compete on an equal footing with foreign companies, and this means that when Danish companies are exposed to unfair competition from foreign companies that do not comply with the Danish VAT rules, for example, something needs to be done about it. That is why I am also pleased that the government, with this bill, is responding to a desire from the business community for improved control in the area of online commerce. So SKAT now gets a tool to ensure that foreign companies both collect and settle Danish VAT in connection with sales to Danish consumers. At the same time, I would like to stress that SKAT has the power to carry out this control only when it is necessary for the determination of taxation. I believe that the draft law helps to ensure that, among other things. the fact that the Tax Council has to be involved before any controls are carried out. In addition, the draft law strengthens the legal basis for e.g.: VAT statement from embassies and registration of the supply of information from the Vehicle Register. As most of you have noted, and as some rapporteurs have also mentioned in today's debate, the draft law also provides for a tax exemption for the private use of Marienborg for the Prime Minister in office at all times. This brings the rules into line with those in Norway and Sweden, and what has also been in force for many years for members of the Bureau of the Folketing. And if I have to comment on the debate that has taken place between the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten and a number of other rapporteurs, a tiny bit, it is true that this is a special treatment, but I think a justified and factually justified special treatment by the Prime Minister of the country, also a special treatment which is in accordance with what was stated in the will of the Supreme Court, C. L. David, when he handed Marienborg over to the State in 1962. Then he said, and it is on page 16 of the bill: "My property Marienborg at Frederiksdal will be given to the State on the condition that it is left to the free summer residence of the Prime Minister of the country. Because of its location, which is at once rural and yet in the immediate vicinity of the capital, it is likely to be suitable for the stated purpose. I am surprised that no summer residence has been made available in the past to the changing prime ministers of the country, on whose labour such large bills of exchange are drawn. In addition, it goes on to say: "If, for some reason, the Prime Minister does not wish to use the accommodation, it will be made available temporarily to another member of the government...·. I have to say that it is not the Minister for Taxation, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the first place. It is true that this is a special treatment, but it is a special treatment which the Prime Ministers of the other Nordic countries also have and a special treatment which I think is justified. There is something special about being a member of parliament; there is something special about being a member of the Bureau; there is something special about being a prime minister. That is why I also think, with the argument contained in the draft law, that we can fully defend what is being proposed. I am glad that a broad majority in the Folketing can see that. That is what I wanted to say, and I hope, of course, for a good and constructive committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171629	It called for a brief remark from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171635	Thank you. It is good that the Minister recognizes that special treatment is involved, that is to say a special law, which must apply precisely to the Prime Minister, who is thus exempt from tax • a tax which all other Danish citizens would have to pay if they were to have a similar benefit at their disposal. Then it is argued that it was stated in the will. So, I hope that the tax minister is not opening such a general precedent that if you write in your will that you don't think the heirs should pay tax on the good that they get at their disposal, then we have to follow it in here in the Folketing. I think that is a dangerous development, and I do not think that the Minister of Taxation thinks so either. And yes, there is something special about being Prime Minister, and there is something special about being a member of parliament. It is honorable for all of us to have shown that confidence by the people. However, I do not think that this should mean that we should be too far removed from what ordinary people are experiencing in the field of taxation and in other areas. I think it is important that there is a very great deal of uniformity; I think that is best for our people's rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171736	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171739	I fully agree with the latter, but there are some special rules that apply to members of parliament and some special rules that apply to ministers and some special rules that apply to the Prime Minister of the country. And I have to say that with the particular workload of a prime minister, I do not think it is unreasonable that one should be allowed to take an overnight stay free of charge after a meeting of the official residence and not be forced to go home wherever one lives, to go to Marienborg the next day, because if one spends one night, one might fall under the full tax liability. I think that is entirely factually justified. I fully agree that we must, of course, make sure that these differences are minimised. However, the rules that apply to members of parliament, to members of the Bureau, to ministers and to the Prime Minister are fully in line, and they are also similar in terms of the Prime Minister's official residence, the rules that exist, among other things. our Nordic neighbours.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171841	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171844	All due respect for the Prime Minister's hard work, but I also think I know a few slaughterhouse workers and concrete workers and others who also think that they are working hard and therefore do not have access to this kind of privilege. But I really have a very specific question for understanding this. The question is: how many times does the Prime Minister have to spend the night before it triggers tax according to the current rules and according to the rules proposed, and what does it mean in both cases if the accommodation happens in relation to something representative? The Prime Minister himself used the example that he spends the night there to go on a run in the morning. What is the position with regard to the current rules and the rules proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171926	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171929	All the time I only have 27 seconds, now 26 seconds, to respond to Mr. Pelle Dragsted's extremely relevant question, I would suggest that he put it in writing, and then we should take care to answer it so that it can be clarified. And then I hope that the Enhedslisten will review its view on that part of the bill in committee. But if that is not the case, then we must live with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117171957	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117172014	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117172044	This bill establishes a new taximeter for distance learning with rates lower than those for ordinary taximeters. The surplus goes, among other things. to pay for our quality boost of vocational training, including the purchase of new equipment in 2016 and 2017. The Social Democrats generally support the digitisation and dissemination of opportunities for distance learning in all its many forms, characterised by the absence of teachers and pupils together physically. However, it has also been documented that the profit levels at distance learning are relatively good and it is therefore reasonable that the rates should be lower and that, for example, there should be a reduction in costs. is not triggered building taximeter as in normal teaching. Our general view is that the administrative costs of educational institutions must be kept to an absolute minimum so that resources can be used as much as possible with the pupils. That is why it will be crucial for the Socialists to keep the new meter as simple and as low-practical as possible. We shall therefore pay particular attention to how the proposed small limit of 10% will be applied to the next committee. specific management at the individual schools. We have noted that the government's comments on the consultation responses state that the reporting of schools is not expected to entail additional administrative and audit costs. We will stick to that. It is also important to bear in mind that the concept of distance learning not only covers a single teaching method, but rather is a common term for several different digitally supported courses. We will pay particular attention to the fact that the new meter is reasonable for all these different methods. Several of the consultation responses criticise the very short phasing-in of an entirely new taximeter as from 1 January 2016. The Social Democrats recognise that several institutions will find it difficult to make up for all the savings in distance learning alone in the 2016 budget, but in determining the taximeters' level in the annual financial laws, the Social Democrats' starting point will be that grants for distance learning should cover teaching and thus not be an extraordinary expense or income for an educational institution. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117172300	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117172312	A new reform of vocational training saw the light of day last year. A majority in the Folketing dared to be visionary and make a binding agreement on the future vocational training system. We in the Danish People's Party have a very positive say on this reform and on vocational training as a whole, which is indeed a fantastic programme. We have introduced character requirements of at least 02 in Danish and mathematics in order to be admitted to a vocational training course. We dare to make demands on young people and ensure that it is the most motivated young people who are actually admitted to vocational training. At the same time, there is a need for the many skilled young people who are taking vocational training, just as, in the future, it must be said, there is quite a lot of job security in that sector. But no visionary objectives and no vocational training reform without the economics. It costs to be a visionary. That is why the same majority in this Parliament has had to find the means to finance the reform. We have among other things. funding in the field of distance learning in youth and general adult education. But let me start with a small definition of distance learning that I came across when I read the mapping and cost analysis of distance learning carried out by QVARTZ. Here is the definition of distance learning: a form of teaching where the teacher and pupil are not physically present in the same place, but where the physical attendance is replaced by teaching via digital media. It says something about the fact that, of course, you don't have to, for example. to get a building taximeter for a student who is actually not present at the school. It could also be the teacher, but in this case it's usually the student. That is why it makes sense to find funding by creating this so-called distance learning taximeter. We'll find 160 million. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We have also had a debate recently on the re-priority contribution, and there we in the Danish People's Party have helped lift it on the table in relation to the police agreement. After all, we have today made a police agreement, a very good agreement, in which we actually also ensure that vocational schools will not contribute in 2016 to the financing of the police agreement. So the savings announced by the government in relation to vocational schools have now been taken off the table. This is very, very positive, and we in the Danish People's Party thank you for the willingness of the conciliation circle to do so. But in the Danish People's Party, we can support this bill. We think that the reform of vocational training is incredibly good and, of course, it must be financed, because it costs to be visionary. I hope that, as politicians, we can continue to be visionary in the field of education, because we really need to train more people in vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117172624	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117172632	Thank you for that, President. Back in February 2014, a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties reached an agreement on better and more attractive vocational training. With the agreement, the parties also committed themselves at that time to jointly finding the money to finance the agreement. This agreement was then implemented here on 2 October 2015, when an agreement has been reached that negative budgetary adjustment, among other things. This should be achieved by the introduction of separate taximeters for distance learning. This draft law, L 49, which we are now discussing in the Chamber, establishes the legal basis for setting these separate rates for distance learning grants. Today, it is not possible to set the separate rates for grants for teaching carried out in whole or in part as distance learning. This means that in the case of distance learning, taximeter grants are linked to the individual courses and are the same as for ordinary courses. This means that, for example, there is a need for the Commission to take action in this area. Today, full teaching taximeters, common cost taximeters and, for that matter, building taximeters are paid regardless of whether the teaching has been carried out as ordinary teaching or as full or partial distance learning. It is estimated that revenue of some 162 million can be realised. kr. Annually from 2016, by setting separate tariffs for grants for distance learning. This money must, among other things, be used. I am also hoping that, at the end of the day, I will be able to attract even more young people to opt for vocational training. With these words, I can inform you that the Left supports the bill, and at the same time I have promised the Conservatives to inform you here today that they also support L 49.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117172858	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117172912	Thank you. The Enhedslisten considers it very regrettable that the draft law before us provides for a reduction in the taximeter rate for distance learning, which, according to a large number of organizations, will mean that a large number of schools will have to make savings in many schools, which will seriously affect the range of distance learning provided by schools. If the proposal is implemented, it will, in all probability, lead to a significant reduction in the number of pupils who will receive distance learning. This is, of course, primarily a problem for the many who lose the opportunity to train, but in addition it will lead to the disappearance of a large number of posts at the educational institutions, especially at adult training centres, savings to be added to the hundreds of posts that will be abolished as a result of the 2% annual savings foreseen in the financial legislation negotiations. We have noted that it is stated from many quarters that it may make sense to discuss a separate rate for distance learning, but at the same time we have noted that the sustainability of the analysis carried out by QVARTZ, the consultant responsible for the draft law, is being called into question. Frankly, we find it strange to read in a call from the VUC Leaders' Association that the VUC sector has not really been involved in the drafting of the report on the efficiency of distance learning. The management association puts a major question mark over the quality of the study and the so-called efficiency potential of the report's authors. At the same time, the management association points out, in line with a number of other consultation parties, that it is not objectively justified to completely remove the building taximeter. To put it mildly, it seems strange that a change in the taximeter for distance learning should be carried out on such a questionable basis and at a speed of lightning, so that the savings already have to be made from 2016 and thus result in what many schools have called an immediate slowing down of the distance learning provision. But this is probably simply because the parties behind the vocational training reform have had to find funding for the last part of the remaining economy in the agreement, and this has happened with the conciliation on 2 October by making substantial savings on other parts of the education system. We in the Enhedslist believe that this is not a fair approach and, frankly, we are incomprehensible that it has been possible for the government to bring together all the conciliation parties on the eud agreement on savings of this nature. I should like to point out, for the sake of good order, that we are of course aware that the proposal before us is about establishing a legal basis for granting a separate grant for distance learning and not specifically defining the size of the taximeter, but it is clear from the draft law that the aim of the proposal is to make massive savings, when the comments on the draft law state quite specifically that, as a result of the draft law, it is estimated that revenue of up to 162 million can be realised in the 2016 Finance Act. kr. Frankly, I do not think that can be explained away. This is not just a proposal for a legal basis, it is a proposal that is directly linked to the proposal that lies with savings and, on that basis, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117173252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it is Mrs Merete Riisager as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117173301	Thank you. We are now treating L 49. We think it is quite reasonable that the rate of digital education should be lower than that of presence education. In fact, it surprised me a lot when I discovered that it hasn't always been like this. I myself have been working with digital learning for many years, and I would say that if we could in any way have approached a 100 per cent rate in relation to presence teaching, we would have been incredibly excited. That has never been the case. So it is clear that this must be the case. Whether the pricing is now the right one, I find it difficult to assess. We'll have to look at that as we go. In general, this is the way it is, and this bill also shows that not all resources are spent on teaching that are really spent. We discuss a lot about how much money we spend on education and education. I have been involved in education all my adult life, and there are many places where you just become aware that there is a lot of money that is used incorrectly, which is not being used directly for what we would like to use them for. It is important that we constantly review the field of education in order to ensure that the money is spent on good education and not on everything else. Having said that, I believe that we should do more to create better opportunities for using digital education everywhere in the education system, both in youth education and also in primary education. We actually need a real strategy in this area. This is an area which very few politicians are interested in. It's a little dry, it's a little useless, but nevertheless it's actually an area where we have some incredibly good opportunities to move. We have also set aside a number of resources for this year, but it is as if it is growing all the time. There's not much going on. There I would just like to call for this government to take it up again and ensure that some people actually know something about digitalisation in the educational world. Because it is not enough that we sit in here and have a lot of opinions. Of course, there are also some talented officials, but they may not have their hands on the pulse, compared to what's happening in this industry and what's possible. At the same time, it is very important that we involve researchers who know something about the didactic, so that you use digitisation where it makes sense, and not use it where it doesn't make sense. Again, we need the resources right. It's also a problem in this industry of digitalization that too much self-development is taking place in general. This means that too much is done in the public sector itself. It is simply too little to outsource and goes into direct competition with companies. It helps to block the fact that there is actually a sensible and rapid development in this area. Having said that, what we are deciding now is that some money should be transferred to the Eud area. We have been involved in this in the Liberal Alliance, and we would very much like to do so. We think it is extremely important for vocational schools to function well and it has been necessary to make this priority. It is also in the agreement that this is part of the need to debureaucratise youth education. There, in the Liberal Alliance, we have wanted to include in the text that we have been given a hearing with youth education, asking what kind of bureaucracy they want to get rid of. Again, it's about using the resources properly. I often hear from youth education that it and that rule mean that they think they are using their resources incorrectly. There, as politicians, we should be doing ourselves that service regularly and not just occasionally hearing people about what sort of rules we have introduced, which do not actually contribute with value and which they would like to have cleaned up. Then they can bring us some lists, and then we will review them and discuss them, and then we will remove as many of the rules as we can, and as many as it makes sense, so that they can carry out their work in the best way possible and focus on creating good high-quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117173710	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117173716	Thank you. We are discussing this bill which the government has put forward, which proposes to downgrade the taximeter rate for distance learning in youth education, and this applies both to the building taximeter and to the actual teaching taximeter. In the alternative, we recognise that there is a certain logic in the fact that the building taximeter may have to be smaller when students have distance learning, and we also clearly recognise the need to tackle some of the bureaucracy so that the workflows in youth education can be made more effective. Having said that, there are a lot of elements to this bill that actually worry us a lot. In fact, in the alternative, we agree with the criticism of the Education Association, whose response to the hearing was that it is a mistake to finance reform in the field of education by taking money from the same resort. We think that is quite right. It is quite okay to give priority to some areas, and we fully agree that the reform of vocational training has advantages and strengths, but it is really a pity that we choose to cut distance learning in order to finance another area within the same range. If you want to prioritise, you have to take the money from some other areas. Several interested organisations have also pointed out in their response that this bill can actually have an effect on the weak citizens and on the outermost regions of Denmark, and so we agree with them. There are some citizens, some students, who may, for various reasons, find it difficult to transport themselves to and from educational institutions. It may be citizens with physical impairments, mental impairments, who really benefit from being able to participate in distance learning. With this bill, we must assume that we are removing some incentive from the educational institutions to offer distance learning and thus also the possibility of participating in distance learning for some of the citizens who either have difficulty getting to and from, or who in general live in the outermost regions, which are, after all, an area which the government has just prioritised, in terms of the relocation of state jobs. That's why the savings in this bill are affecting the ability of some of the most vulnerable groups to train themselves, and we think that is really problematic. When we assess in the alternative how we put ourselves politically to legislative proposals, resolutions or other political initiatives, we always put it against what we call our three bottom lines: economic, social and environmental. In relation to this bill, we think that this is a social problem. We are at risk of a social battle, and the look for diversity that we want is not enough. It is also in distance learning that there is a green perspective in relation to the fact that we can reduce some transport costs. This bill can also help undermine that. We therefore believe that distance learning should not be downgraded as an area because there is a great deal of potential innovation in distance learning that we can use very much in Denmark in relation to our status, our position in relation to abroad. We can actually export some of our good ideas in this area. It will be problematic in the long term if we reduce the opportunities for the institutions to offer good and innovative and capable distance learning. For us, it is not a question of teaching at the institution or at home. It may be that there are some costs that are not included in distance learning, but then they have to be used to make distance learning so much better. That is why we believe that this draft law sets up barriers to distance learning, social, environmental and economic, and therefore the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174142	Thank you. There are questions from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174146	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. There were just some things that I simply could not quite follow and that I really need to get the rapporteur to elaborate a little further. The rapporteur says that, in some way, there is a social battle, or danger of a social battle. Does the rapporteur not also think that if one chooses, as has been done for many years, to give more money for distance learning than for normal education, then it can actually lead to a social battle?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174221	My point is that the taximeter rate for distance learning and normal education should be the same, i.e. the 100 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174232	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174235	The fact that the taximeters have to be the same is actually what the rapporteur says. But we can, among other things. • to ensure that distance learning also receives building grants. In other words, distance learning is provided with funds for buildings, even though they may not be used. In fact, there is no real need to provide premises; distance learning can take place without pupils being present in the same room. I would like to ask whether the alternative does not think that somehow it may also be a little • understand me rather • waste of resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174318	Yeah, we think so. I would also like to make that clear, as I tried to say at the outset. In relation to the building taximeter, we agree that you can remove that taximeter form, because it is true that there are some, you might say, physical frameworks that are not so necessary when you talk about distance learning. So we want to be a part of that. I know that there has then been a surplus which has been thought to have been a reason why we can reduce in relation to the teaching taximeter too, and that is what we are opposing. Just because you have accumulated a surplus of a few million kroner does not mean that you cannot qualify for distance learning, that is to say, using the means to make it even better. We were hoping to do that instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174357	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174405	Thank you. More young people will have to choose vocational training and more will have to carry out the training. That is the vision of the Radical Left, and fortunately we share it with a broad majority in this Parliament. Last year, together, we made a reform of vocational training, which places more money on vocational training. The bill is paid mainly by lower taximeter payments at the general high school and by lower taximeter payments for distance learning. I do not think any of us thought it was particularly fun to find the money, but in the Radical Left we are at the target of savings, because in the negotiations we were working for schools to have a chance to be consulted and that no school form should be left with structural deficits which would necessarily go beyond the quality of teaching. I could not gather support for a proper consultation of schools, but there will now be a process in which schools can report back with proposals so that savings will be as little harmful as possible, and I look forward to that. I share the concern that the new taximeters will already come into force from 1 January and not until summer. I believe that the VUCs should be recognised for accepting the fairness of reducing the distance learning tariff, and they have the point that the warning is a little short so that it will be difficult for them to change their activities. In this way, we risk that savings will also be made as real savings. I'm mad at the government that the ink on this deal won't even dry until you take the money back with the other hand at its so-called 2% re-priority contribution. In the Social Democrats and Radicals, we have succeeded in releasing vocational education in 2016, but unfortunately it is only a small patch on the wound, because schools still have to deliver the money in 2017, 2018 and 2019. We in the Radical Left agree to move some of the money from the high schools and the VUCs to strengthen vocational training, and we are in favour of the agreements we have made, and therefore, of course, we also support the bill here. But I also want to say that I feel that the government is cheating us and much worse: schools know that you are going to shave down not only at our high schools, but also at vocational education.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174623	There's a question. Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174628	Now the rapporteur and I have almost just left a consultation where we discussed that it might seem as if it is a very different reality that exists in the consulting agencies. We do not quite know this, because we have not yet seen the report on the basis of which we discussed the proposal on vocational training a little earlier. But it's the same problem here. Isn't there a world different from that of the consultancy agency, which has created the basis for this cut in taximeter fees for distance learning, and then the reality that appears to be in schools? In any case, we can see that the VUC leaders question the relevance of the analysis report. Does the rapporteur not share my concern that this is again about the fact that there is a huge difference between the reality that exists in the consultancy agency and the reality that needs to be dealt with in schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174733	I find that the VUCs actually recognise the potential for there to be money to come after when we talk about the distance selling meter. I think it is very commendable that they are in on this. Where the problem is to a greater extent that, in relation to the date of entry into force. There is one point in the fact that it will be difficult to reach 1 January. I think we should recognise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174759	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174801	Well, I don't quite read the same acknowledgment. In fact, I read that there is a great question mark over whether it is now true that there was such a large surplus in the taximeter system for distance learning, and that the efficiency potential described in the reports is particularly called into question. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur, in peace, whether the rapporteur is prepared, together with the Enhedslisten, to submit to the analysis that has now been carried out, a very thorough examination of the committee's work and, if it turns out that the reality of the consultant report does not correspond to the reality of the schools, then to find solutions other than those contained in the conciliation of 2 October.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174850	I would say, in part, yes, because that is actually what I wanted, as part of the process, to ask the schools whether the figures made sense. It could not be done politically, but what we have agreed with each other is that there will be a process now that schools will have the chance to sign up with various proposals. Then we will have a process based on the background in which we have to look at whether there is anything we can do better to make savings less painful in schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174922	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117174930	Thank you for the floor. Respect for vocational training was the name of the campaign we started in SF Youth many, many years ago. I think I was 14 when it started. We organized listening meetings at the vocational schools, made the evening arrangements and constantly tried to put the vocational schools on the agenda at a time when very few politicians actually had children who attended vocational schools. Most importantly, we tried again and again to push for Christiansborg's reform to make it more attractive for young people to take vocational training, because we thought this was important. The vocational training reform came in. We were there, it was very important to us. It contains many good things. It makes it more understandable and manageable for young people with the entrance to training. Where there were 12 entrances before, there are now 4. There has been an hour lift, and what I thought was most important when I was out at listening meetings there has been a better youth education environment. There has become more community out there and it has become more like going on another youth education. That's often what we heard was wrong. We're really happy about that. Now the reform must be funded. And it's not SF's cup of tea, it's not my cup of tea that you let the dog eat its own tail and finance a reform by making other savings in the education system. But we have chosen that and I stand by it. We thought this reform was so important that we were ready to go a long way to get our prints on it. And when it came and was published, we were also some with our arms above our heads, because we had been fighting for that for many years. That is why, of course, we are also helping to find funding. The legislative proposal we are dealing with today reflects one of the priorities we have set ourselves in order to be able to finance the reform of vocational training. It is not possible today to set separate rates for grants for teaching carried out in whole or in part as distance learning. This means that although distance learning is still used, building taximeters, common cost taximeters and full teaching taximeters are still used. There we are now making the priority of saying that we cut and create a separate taximeter for distance learning. I don't want to tell anyone who's watching, because I know there's someone who does, or those in the VUC world, or those who take advantage of these offers, that this isn't going to be felt. This is gonna hurt, and it's gonna be savings. I don't believe in that eternal song that this can just be made more efficient during a snap. But this is a priority because we thought it was important to have a vocational training reform that makes it more attractive to take up vocational training. Then I'll just say in the end, and it's probably mostly a call that I was close to walking away from this a lot of times. And it was most of all because money was found for something and the government saw already in the context of the financial law negotiations saying: we are just removing that again. This hard work and these many ambitions to improve vocational training were ready to sell in the course of a fall, and it looks like you're doing it now. But it may be that when you are round with local politics, and when you have stood with your arms above your head and rejoiced at a reform, you take credit for it, you also help to find funding for it. But I do not approve of the double savings that are being made now. I do not welcome the fact that savings are being made elsewhere in the youth education system in order to add money to vocational schools in order to use them for top tax incentives or for lower vehicle taxes in the context of the financial legislation negotiations. I'm disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175303	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175308	It is heartwarming with the care of vocational training. I kind of share it. However, I find it very worrying that it has been decided to say that a lack of an economy in vocational training should be financed by removing training opportunities elsewhere in the system. I would like to hear from the rapporteur what his assessment is: how many people will be unable to achieve distance learning with the savings planned for 2016 compared to the level we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175345	I must honestly admit that I have no clear overview of that. I've read both the hearing answers and believe me... got a lot of calls and e-mails, and there are different offers of what this will mean. That is also why I say very frankly: this is going to have consequences. I think it is reasonable to remove the building taximeter, but I am not trying to tell anyone that it is not going to matter in reality either. But this is a priority because we believe that the money for the reform of vocational training should be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175411	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175416	I would like to know whether the rapporteur also recognizes that the whole good objective of strengthening vocational training can be to ensure that much more people receive vocational training. It is, for example. the assessment that has come from Danish SOSU schools, so that with this change it will be the case that there are people who today would be able to implement going from unskilled to skilled, who will no longer have that opportunity. Is it not the rapporteur's view that it is really bad that, in order to ensure the economy for some to have better conditions for vocational training, the opportunity for others is being removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175507	Once again, we must assess what is good and what is bad. And I just have to say that I recognise that, overall, this will have consequences, and that is also why I say that the conciliation circle will have to follow this closely and talk to those who are affected by it out there in the real world. But I sincerely believe that this reform of vocational training will make more people become craftsmen, more people take vocational training. I really believe that, and I can feel it when I'm out talking to people. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175531	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175534	First of all, I would like to say that something has been misunderstood by the rapporteur. When the rapporteur says that savings are actually being made on youth education and that they are apparently going to tax cuts, I would say that this is not something I have heard about. I just wanted to say that. Now it is also the case that we have made a police deal today, where you actually do it, that you take 2%. from upper secondary education excluding vocational schools, but they are then in turn assigned to the police. Among other things: You spend 600 million. kr. I cannot imagine that this is something for which the rapporteur would disagree with finding the means. One might disagree with whether or not it should be in youth education that you have to find the money. However, I cannot imagine that, as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, one disagrees that the police should be given more resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175635	I think it is very sensible to give more resources to the police. I think it is very sensible to spend more money on counter-terrorism. However, I do not think it is sensible to finance the initiative by saving on upper secondary education and, as I understand it, also on vocational training after one year. It has been negotiated home in such a way that you do not do it in the first year, but then the bill comes after that. And if we are to get people to take vocational training, that is a long-term effort. It's gonna be an investment in the form of a long, cool move. Now a police settlement has been made, saying: let young people pay for more officers being trained. It is therefore a strange priority, even on the part of the Danish People's Party, I think. I actually feel like if I had to choose, I'd rather use the pool that you're about to drop off for the spring tax breaks... money to lower NO x. That's how I actually thought the people of the Danish People's Party felt.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175728	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175729	It can't be set up that easy. But now I'd like to turn to another question. I'm standing here with the deal that Mr. Jacob Mark on 2 October 2015 contributed to the conclusion of the agreement, among others. Danish People's Party. And in this it says that we want to introduce these distance learning taximeters, and then it is also said that about these distance learning taximeters, an analysis shows that the institutions generate considerable profits in distance learning based on the current conditions of grant. There is what I see in relation to what the rapporteur is saying, actually wondering whether the rapporteur agrees at all with what the rapporteur has been involved in negotiating here. Does the rapporteur completely disagree with what it says in the paper on which it has been signed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175823	No, the rapporteur is not. I think it makes sense, for example, to give priority to not having a building taximeter in order to have distance learning. I think that makes sense. But believe me: I'm just not the type that's going to stand up here and say that everything can be done through efficiency when I know that from 1 January this is going to have meaning out in reality. It does. But that is a priority because we want to give vocational training a boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175848	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the end of the rapporteur's line, and that is why we move on to the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117175906	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the many positive statements, of course also a few negative ones, and for the support given to the draft law, which allows separate taximeters to be introduced in the field of distance learning. I think it's important, like holding on to why we're doing this. We do so because the parties to the agreement agreed jointly in February 2014 to reform the whole area of vocational training to strengthen our vocational education and training, to ensure that more young people take vocational training, both for their own sake and also because society needs more people to go the career-oriented path. A prerequisite for getting more young people to take up vocational training is that we strengthen the quality of vocational training, and that is that we work more closely to strengthen professional skills, to develop skills, to create study environments, not least for young people for whom a strong study environment is important in relation to choosing an education. I see this as a vision that a great many of us parties in this Parliament shared, but such a vision does not just come out of nowhere; it must also be financed. The whole basis of the agreement in 2014 was the lack of nearly 0.5 billion. kr. in financing. At that time the parties to the agreement were agreed between carrying out analysis work so that funding could be provided in the overall field of education. That is, of course, the responsibility that we have jointly assumed, and I would very much like to acknowledge that the parties to the agreement will also be involved in the subsequent lifting of financial responsibility, and not only when we jointly draw up a strong vocational training agreement. The draft law we are discussing today is, after all, a legislative proposal which, in isolation, provides the legal basis for institutional and educational legislation to set separate rates for distance learning. The question of the separate tariffs and, where appropriate, the level at which the separate tariffs are to be fixed is, after all, something that is dealt with in the annual financial laws. It is also important for me to emphasise that the revenue generated by the separate tariffs for distance learning remains in the education sector and thus strengthens the training effort, because, in addition to funding the vocational school reform, the agreement on 2 October also helped to provide a pool of 150 million. kr. to increase the procurement of vocational training and thus another boost to our vocational training sector. The draft law we are discussing today is a follow-up to the agreement reached by the Government and Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party on 2 October 2015 on the implementation of the negative budget regulation in the light of the business agreement on more attractive vocational training, which I mentioned earlier, from February 2014. We concluded the agreement on the basis of an analysis by a consultancy agency which had been drawn up under the previous government, which showed that it was possible to obtain revenue of up to 162 million. kr. Annually from 2016, by setting separate tariffs for grants for distance learning. Distance learning is, after all, a form of teaching where teachers and pupils are not necessarily physically present in the same place, but where physical attendance is replaced by digital media teaching. This is not something we want to counteract by any means. Digitisation is also very important in our education sector, but it is also important to maintain that it is two different types of teaching and, if today there is no possibility of setting separate rates for grants for teaching carried out in whole or in part as distance learning, it also depends on the fact that it is something that has developed over time. In other words, the taximeter subsidies for distance learning which we have today and which are linked to the individual courses are the same as for ordinary education. This means that today full payment is made after teaching taximeters, common cost taximeters, building taximeters, whether or not the teaching has been conducted as ordinary teaching or in whole or in part as distance learning. With the bill we are discussing today, we are providing the necessary provisions in the education and institutional laws for youth education and general adult education in order to be able to set separate rates for grants for distance learning. This is a political priority, as many of the rapporteurs have also said. It is a political priority to say that we assume responsibility for financing our vocational training and ensuring more attractive and strong vocational training. It is then a political priority to choose between the different forms of funding that were on the table as a result of the agreement made under the previous government back in February 2014 and where it had been agreed that it should be found in the overall field of education. In this prioritization discussion, we have chosen that it is more important for us to have solid funding for our vocational training than it is to maintain a taximeter system whereby the same taximeter is applied to existing and distance learning. I would like to thank Parliament for its favourable treatment here at first reading, and I look forward to the debate in committee and in the Chamber today and the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180431	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180446	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180506	Thank you. SF has made proposals that the government is required to implement for approx. 1,400 million kr. of the re-priority payments to development aid, so that the Danish development aid will be approx. 0.8% This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. I therefore understand the proposal that the 1.400 million. kr. refers to the adjustment of the undertaking in 2015 and that the proposal refers to the Government's announcement on the adjustment of the commitment framework for development assistance. I would like to start by stressing that the government has already announced a slowdown in development aid in 2015 during the campaign. At the same time, we took over an economy in which public finances proved to be in less good condition than expected before the elections, although actual public expenditure in August had gone by approx. 27.5 billion. kr. in 2015 compared to the assessment of public finances in May 2015. As a result, the overall deficit in 2015 is expected to exceed 50 billion. kr. That's 2.7%. of GDP in 2015, which means that there is a less security margin for the EU's 3% limit. the general government deficit. At the same time, the deficit on the so-called structural balance in 2015 increased to 0.9%. of GDP, which is well above the budgetary law limit of 0.5%. of GDP. It is a key priority for the government that we get the economy under control and ensure a greater margin to the EU deficit limit and to the deficit limit in the budget law. The slowdown in development aid in 2015 is therefore part of the government's overall economic policy and necessary to reach the government's other priorities. As regards the reprioritisations in 2015, the government has provided an overall framework for development assistance of 0.73%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. So we have chosen a gradual adjustment to the 0.7%. of GNP, as we promised during the elections. The government implemented the adjustment by reducing contributions to a number of partners and interventions. In many cases, these are long-term cooperation based on mutual trust and which we wanted to respect. It has therefore been a crucial criterion that no legally binding agreements are broken. The adjustment has thus been made among the budget lines where no commitments have yet been made and where there is no legal obligation. At the same time, the government has chosen to give priority to humanitarian interventions and interventions in the neighbourhoods of refugees and migrants. The government is doing this on the basis of the exceptional situation of refugees in the world, and it is my clear impression that there is agreement that this is the right priority to help those people in the world who are in acute need right now. Exceptionally, 225 million have been added in 2015 until further notice. kr. more than what was originally included in the budget law for 2015 on the humanitarian framework. This will mainly go towards increasing support for refugees and internally displaced persons in Syria and in the vicinity of Syria. Adaptation of development aid reflects the political priorities of the government and is carried out within the legal framework in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180820	Yeah, and that's a question or three. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov is the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180826	We live in a time when people are on the run because they cannot see a future for themselves in their own country. That's why they do the most desperate things like take their kids and sit with them in a dinghy on the Mediterranean Sea. Those people need a future in their own country. Does the government really believe that it is at that time in the history of the world that we have to cut development aid, which, after all, offers a hope for a future for people in their own country?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180903	We believe that it is right to make a priority when one can see such a huge deficit as the one we took over from the previous government, so that we tighten up. And we have to say that if you do not keep order in your own economy, it is difficult to help others. Denmark continues to deliver at a level so that we are among the five countries in the world that meet the UN's stated goal of developing economies giving 0.7 per cent. We shall continue to do so in terms of GNP in development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180930	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117180934	The refugees I am talking about are not people who, in theory, are found in hot countries, no, they are people who wander around Danish motorways. And the fact is that, in relation to the Danish economy, it is true that after that compulsory check-up, which the finance minister did after the election, he had to go out and say that everything was wrong, but since then it has been the case that every time he opened a drawer, he found another billion. So the economy isn't as bad as it was announced. Can we then get a hand on the fact that every time you find a billion, you fill in on development aid? Every time the finance minister finds a billion, we fill in development aid so that we can give these people a hope for a future in their own country?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181019	Mrs Mette Gjerskov is unfortunately swapping for cause and effect, because if the economy now seems to have a smaller deficit and greater economic room for manoeuvre, it is precisely because it has been recognised that we are spending fewer dollars on development aid in the coming years. The Danish economy has not improved by pulling out a drawer and finding a billion. If so, some more drawers should be examined in the Ministry of Finance. We have made an extraordinary contribution in this autumn to the humanitarian effort in Syria and the neighbourhoods, and we will continue to deliver in the coming years at a very, very high level, even a higher level set out in the proposal for next year's Finance Act than we have seen in the past, to the humanitarian and neighbourhood areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181105	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181108	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister why they want to cut back on the activities that could mean that we will have more refugees in the world. I am thinking of UNFPA, which is being pruned. It is the activities of the population precisely where you look at how you get people to be in the areas where they are. The UN Development Programme, UNDP, is being cut. This is precisely the programme which will help to take care of people in the neighbourhood and ensure that they return quickly to their own area. I think that's weird. I also find it strange that three areas of direct damage to Mali should be cut. What is the reason why we are cutting so crazy this year and right now when we are saying that we are going to benefit the situation in Mali?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181201	As far as Mali is concerned, we have actually decided that from next year we will deliver more into Mali in bilateral cooperation with Mali than the previous government has chosen to do. So I don't quite understand exactly what that is, sir. Christian Juhl points out in relation to Mali. In relation to where we have chosen to prioritise, we have looked at where there is no legally binding agreement, a legally binding commitment, and then we have chosen to prioritise. I would like to admit here that prioritising hurts. There are plenty of the proposals that we have had to choose from, which I would very much have liked to have chosen, would have been maintained, but when you look at the overall framework being reduced, it is a priority discussion about what is most important. And there we have both in 2015, but more in 2016 and in the budget in the future tried to set up a framework for what we prioritise differently from the previous government; what we prioritise as most important.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181258	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181300	When I say Mali, I say the UN Fund for Crisis Prevention. It saves 42 million. kr. On this year. It hits Mali directly. The UN Peace Building Fund saves 50 million. kr. On this year. It hits Mali directly. The Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria saves 65 million. kr. On. It's gonna hit Mali this year. They cannot live by the fact that next year there will be some money when it is here that the UN must make an effort immediately. Then I would urge the Minister to stop saying: we have to save, we have to save, we cannot afford it. I think that is responsible for this. I think it would be much, much better and more appropriate for a minister to say: we will save, we have decided to save; there is money to do so, but we will not spend the money on development aid. Because that's the facts when you make priorities. You can't turn it into such a technical language. After all, there is content in these things, and when the government has given a different priority, it also means that they have made a decision. It's not something they have to do. It is their own free political will. I think it would sound more decent and honest to stand by it, i.e. be a man in his own pants.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181411	Now I'll see who's in my pants myself, but if mr. Christian Juhl heard my speech from the beginning, so he had heard that I said that the 0.7 per cent that we hit in 2016 is a choice we made. That's even our election vow. When you have it as an election promise, there are some savings that are needed to live up to the election promise and to keep a framework within the electoral promise. We choose to lay down as one of five countries in the world that responds to the UN's recommendation on how much development aid should be given. I think Denmark can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181446	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181449	I fully agree with the comments made earlier by my two colleagues. What I would like to ask is the credibility of the Danish Government. So, I understand that everything that is legally in order, what cannot be legally deleted, has not been deleted here in 2015, but is there not also a moral responsibility? In other words, agreements are being made and commitments made, which may not be legally binding, but which are still expected to be honoured and which were part of the financial law adopted for 2015 and then the government deletes it. Is there not a problem with the credibility of the government vis-à-vis partners and other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181535	I do not think there is. I believe that, as far as these matters are concerned, I and indeed all of us are first and foremost bound by our contract with the electorate, that is, what we have promised the electorate before an election that we will do, we must also work for after election. And the Left had said quite clearly that we were going to start slowing down and that we have a goal that development aid should be 0.7 per cent. of GNP. That is why we have implemented the policy that the electorate has given us the mandate to implement. I cannot and will not vouch for the policy of the previous government unless I agree with it. It's almost self-sustaining. When I agree with it, I would like to commend it, for example. I think that some of the things that the previous government has done in the area of judicial cooperation are excellent, and we continue to do so. Then there are some things that we do not agree with, and I do not want to be taken as an income or as a legal or moral obligation to carry out things that I politically disagree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181634	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181636	Yes, but now the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as a minister representing the Danish state, has relations with other states, goes out to collaborators. And I think it is difficult for the Minister in those relations and in his capacity as Minister to use an argument that the Left made a promise in an election campaign, I have to say. We do not agree with that statement. But that does not help much in relation to the relationship of trust that is being broken. This cannot be used as an argument to collaborators, because they see it as the state of Denmark's commitment to do so and such an undertaking, which was then defined by another government, I agree with, but I think that the new government and the new minister, if he is to maintain confidence and the good reputation that Denmark has around the world, must stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181728	I would just like to point out that the second brief remark is only one and a half minutes, and I would ask the questioners to respect that in the future. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181738	I do not agree, and it is then a matter of opinion as to whether a government that has taken over government in the middle of a calendar year is bound by the budgetary lines of the previous government, also in the context of development policy. I believe that, in the context of the discussions I have had with partners in which we have chosen to reduce or withdraw from the cooperation agreement with them, most of them of course have been an annoyance, but also an understanding that such are the rules of democracy, so that when a people elect a new parliament, it is also the case that the new Parliament has the right to take new decisions and to have new priorities, which we have taken advantage of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181824	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181828	After all, the Foreign Minister started by saying that before the elections it had been pointed out that these things would be carried out and that they were now just doing what they had promised. However, I do not remember either the Foreign Minister or anyone from the government saying that those cuts would start as early as 2015. What is actually the reason why it has already been decided to reduce Danish development aid retroactively to 0.73% this year. and thus break a large number, although not legally concluded, of agreements with a large number of expectations that a lot of Danes who work with these things have had and which our foreign partners have had, but which, first and foremost, the people who work to fight their way out of poverty and which Denmark had promised funds in 2015, have had? I do not think we heard anything about that in the election campaign, that is to say that money would be cut this year as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117181924	I don't need it against Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, that he did not follow in everything the Left said in the election campaign. But I can promise you, sir. Martin Lidegaard and others, that it was said by the Left that we would start the slowing down of development aid in 2015 if we won. It is true that we have not said exactly 0.73%. of GNP. We did not know at the time how big a hole there was in the box that we took over, and therefore it was surprising to me that there were such major financial problems. But to claim that it was not said before the elections is factually wrong. That was said by the Left, also by representatives of the Left, who at that time had the posts from which they could say it, for example. as fiscal rapporteur, that we would start a slowdown in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182012	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182015	I think there's a very big difference between this and starting a slow-down. I understand that it should not increase any more, i.e. stop the increase. And then cut by 2.7 billion. kr. in projects that have already been designed, that have started and that people expect will come. It is something that weakens Denmark's reputation not only in the United Nations, in the European Union and in all the places where we have promised this money, but also much wider than that. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has received the same number of e-mails from Danes who are deeply involved in this small civil organisation and also companies and industrial organisations who have invested in making this happen. And vupti, it's gone and for no good in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182102	I receive many e-mails from a great many people, and it is clear that some people are also sorry that less is being given in development aid. But you can't understand a statement that we're going to start the braking towards 0.7 per cent. of GNI, other than that we will spend less in 2015 than what the then government had planned for 2015. That is why we fully live up to what we said in the election campaign. We start the braking this year, and we hit the 0.7%. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182132	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182135	Thank you very much. Now things have happened in the world after the 2015 election campaign, among others. the flow of refugees has increased dramatically. I would just like to mention two proverbs. One is: • It's expensive to be poor. This means that when you save money to buy something that has a poor quality, it usually becomes much more expensive when you have to renew it all the time or because it breaks down. That is also the case with development aid. If you save money there, it will be more expensive in the end compared to many more refugees. The second proverb is: When the manger is empty, the horses are bited. We saw how the drought in Syria created the situation that we have today with the insanely large numbers of refugees because people started moving into the cities. In other words, as soon as we do not provide development aid, we potentially have a lot of crises which, in turn, will create many more refugees. Why, however, do we want to cut areas so important that we do not have more flows of refugees and that we can carry out the tasks that come to Africa, among other things. in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182239	I simply do not share Mrs Sandbæk's analysis that it is the drought that has led to the flow of refugees from Syria towards Europe. It is President Assad and the way he has beaten down on democratic movements and suppressed his own people, set up the military against them, used poison gas against them, and the way he has chased people from house and home who are responsible for seeing the refugees flowing out of Syria. Assad is responsible for the deaths of some 0.5 million people in Syria and the deaths of around 4 million refugees and many, many millions of internally displaced persons in Syria. This is due to President Assad, and that is why we have a political model, a political way to go to put pressure on the international community to create a situation in which Assad has to leave Syria. Because that's the way to achieve peace and have the opportunity for these people to come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182334	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182337	But, of course, Assad is acting on the basis of a very specific situation, which is all analysts agree that because there has been 6 years of drought, more and more people are pouring into the cities. There is no work for them; there is unrest; and Assad, by the way, knocks down by violence a peaceful demonstration of people who have not been able to find work. And there it is that the whole situation is beginning to escalate. So the reason for Assad's actions was the drought.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182406	What has triggered the flow of refugees is the oppressive regime of Assad against its own people. That is why we must put as much pressure as possible to get him away so that we can stop the flow of refugees and so that we can return to rebuilding Syria. Denmark has contributed to the EU's fund for the reconstruction of Syria; we have contributed to rebuilding societies that are liberated from oppressive regimes, among others. in Syria; we provide humanitarian aid in Syria. We are doing a great deal to remedy the situation, but it can only succeed on the day we get Assad away.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182441	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182512	Thank you, President. We live in a time of people on the run, people fleeing bombs, and people fleeing poverty. And the only answer to the situation we hear from the government is asylum restrictions at home, although we know very well that austerity in itself does not reduce the flow of refugees, but rather that austerity is about redirecting refugees to other countries. If you do nothing about the reason why people are fleeing, you have not solved the problem. When people are prepared themselves and with their young children to step up in an unsafe dinghy in the Mediterranean, it is not only because they think it must be absolutely fantastic to live in Europe. Then it is because they are so desperate that what they come from is even worse. One of the things we have seen here during the autumn has been that the money has not been enough in Syria's immediate areas, so that the World Food Programme had to halve the food rations in the refugee camps in Jordan. Hundreds of thousands of people had no help at all. In some places they were down to 3-4 kroner. a day to live for. You can't do that. You can't do that in Jordan either. I know that there has been some progress in this, but I also know that from January onwards they will be without funding again. It is one of the things that makes people flee that they cannot see a hope of a brighter future in their own country. And the government's answer is to cut development aid, which is precisely what these people are supposed to hope for. We are obviously in such an acute crisis in Denmark that we simply have to save on what is the long-term opportunity to avoid refugee flows at all. Development aid will be at the lowest level in 30 years for 30 years! This means that in the last 30 years we have been able to afford higher development aid every single year than we have now. But no, now the money is no longer enough, says the government. But it's not gonna last. It's a matter of choice. The government chooses to lower taxes. We've heard a lot about the wealthy. We hear about top tax concessions, we hear about cheaper cars and registration fees and inheritance taxes for rich families. This is much more important than preventing the flow of refugees in the future. That is what we are facing. It is well known that the immediate slowing down of refugees certainly did not work as they promised us. Now we are making an immediate brake on development aid, so it applies right now and right now. You can do that, you can slam the box in it. But is that wise? No, it's both unwise and heartless. But above all, it just gives more people enough desperation to want to flee, and whether they come to Europe or not, no human being is served by having to flee over the neck and head with child and package carnations on his arm. So my clear call to the government is: drop those savings. Use some of the money the finance minister has found over in the drawers of the Ministry of Finance to ensure that people can have a future in their own country, that they can get some decent food rations, that they can go to school. I do not think I have to say it, but I do it anyway: on behalf of the Socialists I can say that we support the SF resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182950	There's a question. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117182953	Thank you. If a short detector check were to be carried out here, Detector would be working overtime for all the factual errors that were in the rapporteur's speech, including that the government should fight for top tax relief, etc. I have to send the entire government base to Mrs Mette Gjerskov so that she can see for herself what many factual errors she actually made in her speech. But let us get back to what this is all about: the concrete proposal from the SF. Will the Socialist rapporteur not recognise that Denmark will still be in the top five in relation to development aid? So perhaps the Socialist outrage should not be directed at the rest of the world community, whose support lies much lower, because then we could really make a difference in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183047	Those are good questions. I'm happy to stand in Detector with every word I've ever said. After all, we do not know what the Finance Act is going to be like, because the government has incredibly little control over the financial law negotiation process, so we must expect everything to come very late and that all the legislative work will be really messed up because the government has no control over it. I can only speak and that is exactly what I said about what we hear about top tax concessions, lower vehicle taxes, lower inheritance taxes for rich families. That's what's on the table right now. What ends up with I don't think anyone knows, but I'd love to hear more about it, and I'm sure we'd get a lot more journalists to listen to if we could get an answer to it. Having said that, the rapporteur said that we should go for the world community and all the others. I fully agree with that. I fully agree that we must also say to the others in Europe, and so do we on the part of the Social Democrats: now you have to go to your pockets, friends! Let's get you to your pockets, guys! I'm just saying, you're in a much stronger situation if you pay for what you're used to. Once you start cutting down, it's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183202	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183204	Well, it is quite right that the Finance Act takes time, not least after the check we received from the finances showed that there was a need to save even more so that we do not come under real administration by the European Union. This makes it a rather difficult task for us to take on, after such a government which has apparently had such a way of taking on financial responsibility. So it is true, of course, that it takes some time. But to return to what is also at stake, namely how to bring up the rest of the world, I must say that I would like to acknowledge the indignation if we were to stand over at the United Nations in New York and talk about it here, but I just think it seems very strange to attack a government that respects its electoral vow and is still in the top five and is still doing a great deal in the humanitarian field.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183253	I have no reason to commend the government for keeping its election vow. Well, it's a contract the government has with the voters, not with me. Because I disagree. I disagreed when the Left made that promise, and I still disagree. I feel that it is a very good idea to sweep our own door first, which is why, of course, I go to the Danish Parliament and say that this situation is simply unsustainable. It is simply quite wrong to cut back on what can reduce the flow of refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183328	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183352	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has noted that shortly after its accession, the government announced adjustments to the development framework with effect as early as 2015. This proposal is very much in line with the long-standing wish of the Danish People's Party to normalise the level of development funds. However, a number of Danish NGOs and international organisations have, with some justification, felt somewhat disappointed in this decision. They have had an expectation of aid which is now cancelled. In this light, the Danish People's Party actually has a degree of understanding of the spirit behind the proposed proposal. And I admit that the subsidies mentioned in the ideal world might have been cancelled a little more gently. This is particularly true in relation to the fact that a number of the disappointed organisations are grassroots organisations, which are very much run on a voluntary basis and with the commitment that we in Denmark normally value very much. However, the Danish People's Party attaches crucial importance to the Minister's statement that no legally binding agreements on the cancelled grants have been concluded. With regard to the proposal submitted, the Danish People's Party notes that the comments on the proposal emphasise that the 1.4 billion. DKr, which is the subject of the proposal, must be paid because a majority in the Danish Parliament has stated that Denmark's development aid framework must be 0.8%. of GNP. The Danish People's Party cannot agree with this argument and therefore the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal. The UN recommendation is 0.7%. of GNP, and that level is considered appropriate by the Danish People's Party. To conclude, I would like to say to the proposers that in a world with a European Union which is incapable of maintaining Europe's external border and with parties in the Folketing that do not want to control the national border, the proposers, yes, the whole of Denmark, must probably expect some unpleasant priorities to be set in the future as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183600	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183604	Thank you. A certain understanding, but it has to be cut anyway, when it is legally in order. So where's the morale? The Danish People's Party often talks about too many refugees coming from around the world. Would it not be a good investment to say that we are now making sure that it is safe and proper to live and live and grow up in the country where the refugees live, instead of going in search of another and better place because of hunger and disease and crisis and war? It would then be a very good investment and perhaps also in accordance with the wishes of the Danish People's Party not to have so many refugees coming to Europe. You can't do both. You can't just say that we don't care that they're on the run, but they just don't have to be here. It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183655	I think that the level of ambition is very high in the questioner. It is, of course, commendable. Unfortunately, the situation that has arisen with war and refugees has arisen despite Denmark's development framework, despite many years of efforts both near and far. Unfortunately, I think that there are things that we in Denmark are not entirely master of. What one might then ask is: where do we best spend the money that we now choose to spend on, for example, refugees, immigrants, neighbourhoods, etc.? And there it is the view of the Danish People's Party that for every crown we spend in Denmark on refugees and immigrants who might have come here, we could help ten times more people, perhaps more, in the vicinity. So I do not think there is any contradiction between the position of the Danish People's Party and the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183749	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183751	Does it not occur at all to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is not only in the neighbourhood where people have fled to help us? I think it is quite fine that we are doing this but that we are actually going to take a step further out? We must actually prevent them from escaping at all, that is to say they stay in the country where they live, that they have an opportunity to get an education, a job, a livelihood in that country. That is why we need strategic development aid, while at the same time helping in the neighbourhood. Otherwise, there will only be more and more refugees. It may well happen that the Danish People's Party believes that the level of ambition is high, but I should like to say that the level of crisis in the world is also very high, and if we do not want to increase the pressure for refugees, we will have to do something, even in the strategic field, otherwise we will not succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183840	If the link made by the rapporteur between the money taken from Danish taxpayers and the money given abroad automatically results in fewer crises, fewer wars, better living conditions, etc., then perhaps that was something we could talk about further. I just don't think it's that simple. In fact, I think that we may have to recognise to some extent that many of the money actually spent, we have no idea whether it has any effect. So I don't see any contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183911	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183913	I asked for the floor because I need to hear the last of it. I mean, I clearly believe that the tightening up of the refugee area may be fine. It just doesn't remove the flow of refugees. The only thing that eliminates the flow of refugees is to remove the reason for it, in other words that people do not have a future in their own country. But then I hear the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party say that the development aid does not help anyway and that it has no connection with whether people are getting better. Should we not then come up with a proposal for zero kroner in development aid, that is, we are still spending a two-digit billion euro? If you have that position, can you put forward the proposal that there should be zero development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117183957	Yes, you can then turn it around, and then you can say: if there was a direct, unique coupling with 0 per cent. in development aid, and that it was actually beneficial, then that was something that would be considered. But that clutch isn't there either. At the moment it is simply the case that the UN recommends 0.7 per cent. of GNP, and we in the Danish People's Party think that is excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184014	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184015	That was not quite the answer to what I asked. If you do not believe what the UN says about development aid working, you might as well cut it down to zero. Does the rapporteur then believe that there is a connection between the fact that food rations have been halved in the autumn for refugees from Syria down in Jordan, and the fact that so many more refugees are fleeing from the neighbourhood? Could there be a connection there? And could we then perhaps direct the money down to their food rations at least so that you could see a direct cause-effect relationship, also in the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184100	Well, the Danish People's Party is certainly open to a change of priorities within the framework and to direct the money to where it makes the most sense. To direct them where emergency rations and emergency food distribution are required, we are open to discussing within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The rapporteur is free to leave the platform. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184132	Thank you. Let me start by stating that Denmark is one of the countries that provides the most in development aid. Denmark, as one of the few EU countries, lives up to the UN recommendation to provide 0.7 per cent. of GNP in development aid. We are significantly above the countries we usually compare with, for example. Germany. We can be proud of this, which is why I do not understand the constant attempts of SF and other left wing parties to speak Danish development aid far below the floorboards. It is as if we should be embarrassed that we are among the five countries that provide the most in development aid. Yeah, we're not no. 1, but we're among the top five. If the rest of the Western world came up to Denmark's level, it would really move something. So whatever SF claims, Denmark is a pioneer country when it comes to meeting UN objectives. We are virtually alone in an outbreak with the rest of the European Union hanging in the back of the field. The government has chosen a gradual adjustment of development aid so that the cooperation that has been running for years is phased out in the best possible way. It is therefore not a matter of shutting down aid overnight. Denmark, of course, lives up to the legal things we have promised our partners in developing countries. It is no secret that the Danish economy was much worse than expected when the Left took over government responsibility in June. Let me therefore pull up a few key figures which illustrate to such an extent the challenges that Denmark faces. The estimate of the actual government deficit had gone by about 27.5 billion in August. kr. in 2015 compared to the assessment of public finances back from May of this year. As a result, the overall deficit in 2015 is expected to exceed 50 billion. kr. Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 21 December 2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund At the same time, the deficit on the so-called structural balance in 2015 increased to 0.9%. of GDP, which is well above the budgetary law limit of 0.5%. of GDP. With such dark clouds over the Danish economy one, as a government, obviously has to act, and therefore the government has made adjustments in a large number of areas, including development aid. It is not something that has come out of thin air. It was actually something we went to the polls on. We made it clear to the Danes that the Left intended to reduce development aid, but at the same time to continue to comply with UN recommendations. It turned out that there was a majority in the population for e.g. This priority. With the economic challenges that Denmark faces, there are not many other options either. It is not too much to say that SF also has difficulty in pointing out how the party will finance the proposal. The Left cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution and will vote against it. And I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader, who unfortunately cannot be present today, and say that the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution either, among other things. Because of the fact that finance laws are currently being negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184510	There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184513	Thank you. Can we not agree on one thing, and that is that the UN recommendations are at least 0.7%. from rich countries? Can we not agree that Denmark is a rich country, regardless of all your sketches of financial figures and statistics and all those art explanations, and that we can then go to the bite about our responsibilities and go to the bite about whether we owe it to the third world, whether we need the third world to evolve, whether we need Denmark to make an additional contribution in a critical situation where the world is on fire? I think that is what this is all about, rather than talking about it. I think it is a question of whether the Left has also jumped on the Danish People's Party's explanation that it is no use having strategic development aid because it does not help anything anyway. Is the Left not aware that if we do not have strategic development aid and we do nothing in the countries where people live and are poor and sick and where there are crises and wars, we will have more refugees? Doesn't the Left agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184616	The Left fully agrees that we must do what we can at all to ensure that we have stability and that we must help those people who are in need. That is also why we are proud that we are among the five largest contributors in the world who are doing this. After all, even after the change of government a few months ago, we have provided additional aid in the humanitarian field in the neighbourhood to Syria so that we could help the people who are in urgent need. To start from Enhedslisten to talk about art excuses and statistics, and I do not know what, and to call the bad excuses shows a little about the completely monumental difference that is between Enhedslisten's economic policy and the Left's policy, which I would call responsible. I have not yet seen the money tree, which Enhedslisten apparently knows the presence of somewhere at Christiansborg. I know, on the other hand, that we need things to be balanced and, in return, I know that we do not need to get bigger and bigger deficits, so it is future generations who are facing the economic ape and, above all, the big problem that is about us going beyond the European Union's demands in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184727	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov. Excuse me, sir. Christian Juhl in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184734	I am grateful to the President-in-Office of the Council. The rapporteur said before that he would recognise the indignation if we were in the United Nations. Well, I'd like to say to the dear sir. rapporteur: I was in the United Nations listening to the Prime Minister's speech. It was clean, hot air, because 20 hours later he went home and made a budget bill that cuts as hard as it does. I would like to ask once again: is not helping in the third world to prevent the flow of refugees a kind of investment that we have to do in this time, or should others just do so? Is it not the case that we in Denmark can make different priorities? As the Foreign Minister said, it is a priority, it is not something we are forced to do. He would like to see when he was pressed into it, stand by it and be master of his own pants. It sounds as if the rapporteur is saying that we have to find an excuse to do this, and then you come with all your numbers. That is the political and economic priority that we need to take into account, and I suppose you can find out, and then say it plainly if you do not want to pay for development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184840	I would like to say two things. One thing is that I have also just been to New York; I have actually come home a week ago and also met with a sea of the different UN people, including programme offices, all of whom, like one, thanked Denmark for being among the five countries which, of course, enforce the recommendation of the United Nations. So I don't meet the same negative picture that Enhedslisten apparently does when they're travelling. And then back to the PM coming in with hot air. To that I would say that it is as far away from the truth as it can possibly be. We enforce the clear recommendation, and if only the rest of society, that is, the rest of the world community, got up to just about the same level, we could damn well apologize I swear really get a long way in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184926	That was just on the border, you might say, and now it's Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117184933	I am somewhat impressed that the rapporteur of the Left can be around the UN system without meeting a single person who is not deeply disappointed that Denmark is reducing development aid. It must be some very, very polite people that the rapporteur has met. For what we have to say is that several of the UN organisations in Denmark have been halved. The left made a promise to the election. The left promised immediate slowing down for refugees. This could not be achieved, it could not be done for all kinds of external reasons, and I agree with that, but we did not promise it either, because we cannot promise it. That's what the Left did. You can fail that promise. Instead, we move on immediately to development aid, and then we stand and say that it is for the generations of the future. These are the generations of the future, and we don't even have to go through so many generations, a few years ahead, that will pick up this bill when the flow of refugees doesn't stop because people are fleeing from poverty and from war. That is what the Left is delivering to the organisations of the future with its immediate slowing down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185058	I can confirm that it was very polite people I met, but it is a long way away and to say that I should have said suddenly that none of them are disappointed by this slowing down. Of course, some of them are, and we clearly recognise that there are some who have been able to see a reduction in the subsidy they have received, and they are of course disappointed by that I fully understand that, but it is matched by just that we promised something before the elections. We want to ensure that priority is given, among other things. in the field of police, where the rapporteur's own party is, fortunately, part of that police agreement. We want to strengthen the core welfare of, for example. Health. These are clear things on which we went to the polls, and we said that funding for, among other things. Better health should come from, among other things. This whole area of development. Then it is hard, so to say, to throw strange motives into our heads, because we actually put it very, very openly. Then I just want to hold on to the fact that, in relation to future generations, we have nothing to be embarrassed about. We will still have an extremely ambitious development policy. Instead of being above superliga level, you could say a little square that it is now at superliga level. I still think that's really, really nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185207	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185210	I am delighted because then I will get a more realistic picture of what is said in the United Nations about savings at home. I was given the impression that the rapporteur had only met cheeringly, and that is what I might not quite understand. I understand from both the Minister and the rapporteur that the economy is completely insane. Since we cannot afford it, can we also get a guarantee that there will be no money for tax cuts, that is to say that we will have a financial law without those top tax reliefs and without cheaper cars and without inheritance fees for rich families and all the other strange gifts promised by the government and its support parties? That's one thing. The second thing is that I know that you must not shoot at the messenger, but I am simply so sorry that it is the Left who is putting forward Conservatives' arguments in this matter, because their promise to the electorate was precisely the 0.8%, so it was precisely here that they could go on the platform and say that they meant it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185311	Thank you. Well, I can confirm that we in the Left clearly want to ensure as much growth in this country as possible, and one of the ways to do that is, among other things. to provide tax relief. Denmark is the most taxed country in the world according to several studies, and we simply think it is a very, very sad first place and therefore it is needed. We are also saying this very openly, as we said very openly before the elections, and I understand that the rapporteur may have some doubts about this, because it may not be used to saying what you say before an election being what you observe after a choice, but that is what we in the Left are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185343	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185352	Thank you. The SF's proposal, which we are now considering, does not exempt development aid from cuts in the coming years. Nor does the SF's proposal exempt development aid from cuts in 2015. However, the SF's proposal ensures that more than half of the approx. 2.7 billion The cuts that the government is going to make this year will be eliminated. This is a good step in the right direction, and then it fits the Conservatives' position that development aid should be at least 0.8%. In addition, it is the only bourgeois party that dares to be a little ambitious in this area. And so there should be a majority in the Folketing, but now it seems that the Conservatives are still on the verge of escaping from their fine wishes. In the United Nations, the Prime Minister made his speech to the General Assembly, commending the efforts of the United Nations and talking about the need to do even more, the need to do something for refugees, the need to do something for the climate, the need to have an effective UN, etc. etc. Everyone was enthusiastic; they thought that now foreign aid rose in Denmark. But it was only 24 hours before the opposite appeared. It was uplifting to listen to, but it was sad to see the result and the warm air when we got home. 2.7 billion kr. The government will save on Danish development aid in 2016 and beyond. Among other things: Denmark will withdraw completely from a number of UN organisations. The UN Fund for Population Activities, UNFPA, is being cut, although population growth is one of the reasons for the flow of refugees. The UN Development Programme, UNDP, is being cut. Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan and Bolivia no longer need development aid. Africa gets almost 4.5 billion. kr. less in 2015-2017 despite the Government's promise that Africa should be given priority. The aid organisations will cut their operating grants by 25%. CKU shuts down completely. Already this year, in 2015, more than 2.7 billion will be cut down. kr., although there are only a few months left of the year. With one chop, people lose money, they've been put in perspective. Hundreds of people working for a fairer world are getting their flyers in these weeks, both in aid organisations and in ministries. This year Ghana is cut by 223 million. kr.; Mozambique with 94 million kr.; Kenya with 300 million. kr.; social dialogue, i.e. workers' rights, with 55 million. kr.; The Arab Initiative with 106 million. kr.; the climate pool of 100 million kr.; the ozone fund at 62 million. kr.; The United Nations Crisis Prevention Fund of 42 million. kr., which directly affects Mali, which we talked about earlier in the day; the UN Counter-Terrorism Fund with 9 million. kr.; The UN Peace Building Fund with 50 million. kr., which directly affects Mali, which we talked about earlier today; the United Nations Agricultural Fund with 100 million. kr.; The Global Partnership for Education, with 125 million. kr.; Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria kr., which also directly affects Mali, which we have talked about today, but where you would rather send down hunter soldiers. I don't know what's happening to this government. It is more important to send hunters to Mali and bombers to Syria than to be strategic in its development strategy. And when you say that savings are necessary and that we have to save, as I said before, ministers and now also rapporteurs say: we cannot afford to save. This is a transfer of responsibility. Please tell me that you will save, that you have decided to save, that there is money to save. It is active actions from you, it is active decisions, it is active priorities that you must stand by instead of pretending that it is the numbers that decide. Then, moreover, it runs counter to the government's aim to limit the world's flow of refugees. The government does not address, as you yourself claim, and as the Prime Minister claimed in the United Nations, the reasons why people are fleeing. On the contrary, these cuts will increase the flow of refugees. It is short-sighted, it is expensive, it is brutal, it is cynical, and it is pathetic because the world's poorest have no chance of protesting against your cynical policy. We simply cannot be familiar with this. Therefore, Enhedslisten supports SF's proposal to save significant parts of the activity in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185828	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, and then it is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185837	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not support the motion for a resolution, and we do not, on the grounds that the savings are not being made for activities for which legally binding commitments have been made, and this is not, of course, a question of running from legal agreements as a country. This does not mean that it is easy to prioritise development aid. I think we are all affected by the many inquiries that Mr. Martin Lidegaard also referred to in his remark to the Minister, so of course makes that impression. But that does not change the fact that if we take a trip to the helicopter and take a global look at the situation, we can see that as a country we are still away, even after the savings made, one in only five countries in the world that meet the UN's recommended level of support. The Liberal Alliance, like the current government before the elections, said that we believe that development aid should follow UN recommendations on 0.7%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which we have been able to present to the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185950	There's a question. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117185953	Now I have very little desire to try to use moral arguments with the Liberal Alliance, for it is usually whether it pays off financially and whether it pays off, etc. etc. that interest you in the Liberal Alliance. So I would like to ask you directly: is it not a good investment to have a very high level of development aid if you bear in mind that it costs if the refugees now come to Europe and Denmark and if we do not ensure that they can live a good life where they are living at the moment? And will the mere fact that it is a good investment and that the money will actually come back on that longer track not be able to appeal to LA members of parliament so that they could support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190039	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl for a lesson in LA's moral pointers, but I think I'll just stop commenting on that. On the question of whether it is a good investment and whether we could not, on the basis of that argument, think it was a good idea to maintain higher development aid, I would say that, yes, I think it is a good investment, and that is also why we support Denmark continuing to have a level of 0.7 per cent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is a high level of support, and many other countries, including close neighbouring countries, could learn something from it. So yes, I think it is a good investment to have a high level of development aid, and that is why we support compliance with UN recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190128	Sir. Christian Juhl for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190131	Now it's a matter of whether it's loud or not, but it's a relative thing. Well, we also live in one of the world's three or four richest countries where we can afford it and where we have the people with us on this issue. Then, damn it, we should not take advantage of that opportunity and make sure that we move forward, not least in a situation where the United Nations and all others who have set the 17 new development objectives necessary for sustainable development suggest that 0.7 per cent. Far from it is enough. Not even 1%. can do it, but it can then help along the way. Should we just sit here and wait for the planet to burn, climatewise and also human and social, and say that we really have paid? And the self-goodness should then do that we can just say that the others have to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190220	Just for the record, I would like to remind you that ordinary good tone is used in the Assembly Hall. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190227	Now Mr. Christian Juhl himself with his own goodness, I think those were the words, and in that light one can of course always argue that one should give more. But then we could also argue that one should give 1%. of GNP or 1.5% of GNP, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I am happy to note that in Denmark, although we make these savings, we still live up to the UN recommendations as one of only five countries. Well, I don't think there's any reason to talk down. In fact, I think there is reason to do the opposite, namely to speak it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190308	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short comments, and the next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190321	Thank you very much. The alternative, of course, also supports the proposal. We would actually have liked it to be 1%. But this is at least a step along the way, so that we avoid some of the terrible things that would now have been planned. By the way, the Conservatives did not want to have 0.8%. I was also in New York, and I should like to say that there was no enthusiasm for Denmark. It was not said that we belonged to the five best countries in the world, but it was said that with these cuts there was complete panic, because people had thought that we would continue to be a country that provided what we used to do. So I was very embarrassed to be in New York. Of course people were polite, but they certainly did not hide the fact that they were very, very disappointed that Denmark cut down on its development aid. But I am not going to say much, by the way, for Mrs Gjerskov and Mr Gjerskov. Christian Juhl has said all there is to say about these cuts, i.e. what a disastrous consequence it will have for the poorest countries. It is true that we have to save it, but why on earth should we let the poorest countries in the world pay for our savings? You should have found the money somewhere else. I have just, I think it was yesterday, read in Politiken about someone who was a prisoner of ISIS for 11 months, and he told me that when he heard them speak, they said he spoke French, and some of them also spoke French, that they thought it was wonderful that we bombed them, because every time we bombed them, they got even more holy warriors. Then we could not have spared some of the bombs we intended to throw down on ISIS, instead of saving on development aid, which, after all, creates more refugees than the bombs do? So, yes, it is just a pity that there will be no majority in favour of the proposal. We would have liked to have seen that. But thank you for bringing it, SF; we certainly appreciate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190526	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, on behalf of the Radical Left. You don't have to run. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190536	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF for giving us the opportunity, before the budget law is finally adopted, to turn around what is actually happening. Too often we tend to just throw ourselves around with figures in the public debate and figures in the parliamentary debates here, but in this case these are figures that cover up a reality that will hit incredibly many people, especially in the developing countries, but in fact also at home. I think it's been a long couple of weeks. I have never tried to receive so many e-mails from all sorts of Danes who are deeply committed to trying to make life better in many of the countries that people are fleeing from at the moment, who are collecting clothes, who are trying to help persecuted Christians who are trying to engage Danes in information work, who are trying in every way to anchor the entire participation and commitment in the rest of the world in the Danish population. And they feel run over, and I have to say, I understand. Because I do not agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when it is said that what has happened this year, in 2015, has been announced. When you say that you have a slow-down in development aid this year, then we normally understand, after Danish language, a slow-down like that, that you stop the increase, which was otherwise planned by the previous government. That's fair. It is also fair to go to the elections to reduce development aid to 0.7%, even though I bloody disagree with the political priorities. That has been reported as well. However, it has not been reported during the parliamentary elections that one would cut down to almost 0.7%. This year already. It is therefore a large number of the priorities that a previous majority in the Folketing has made towards 18 June this year, which committed Danes have expected, which development organisations and UN organisations have expected and which a lot of people in the developing countries have expected. Then there is a thirty-year perspective, which is the business perspective. A large number of these projects are also of interest to industry. So I do not think that this process is fair, even though it seems that we can legally allow ourselves to have to scale and manage the priorities that a majority of the House has laid down last year. Then there are many who say that yes, but we still have one of the world's highest development aid, and it is true that we do. But one thing needs to be borne in mind, and it is also for the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur that these figures are calculated differently in the different countries. There are, for example: Some countries that count on the contribution they make to pre-asyl expenditure are included in development aid. In fact, some countries do not. In Denmark, we have a tradition of our government, too, that we are counting on it. But if we correct for the different ways you do it, then the picture looks a little different. Then such a country as Germany has. a significantly higher net development aid, one might say, southwards, than one might immediately think, in relation to Denmark. It has consequences when you cut 2.7 billion. kr. in aid to the world's poorest. This has consequences for what this government can deliver in the outlying areas, even if it is a relatively high priority. Because the reserves you have to do well with later this year are getting smaller. It is fair that a political priority should be set. Apparently, the government has a majority to do so. But you should not tell the Danish people that it does not have deep and serious consequences, both for the people who are affected and for Denmark's reputation in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117190945	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for short remarks, and so we go on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. It's sir. Holger K. Nielsen for SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117191005	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. There have been many points of view, which I fully share, from the Socialists, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Alternative, which have, of course, pointed out the politically disastrous and strategic concern that Danish development aid is being reduced to the extent that we are facing a lot of other problems; that the whole refugee situation and, in general, the inequality problems at global level are creating other difficulties; and that we have to take this challenge much more seriously than we have done. So I totally agree with that. You could say that this is primarily about part of it. One thing is that you intend to cut back in the following years, but what you then do is that you cut back already in 2015 on a large number of projects, compared to a large number of commitments that have been made in different places, both in the Third World, but also to organisations here in Denmark and in general. And there I have to say that I simply do not understand that it has been done so violently, also because this, however you turn it over and turn it, has consequences for Danish credibility. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who criticised some for wanting to talk Danish development aid under the floorboards. No, that is not what you are doing, because there is no doubt that Denmark has a very, very high international profile in this area and hopefully will have it in the future. It can be said that Denmark is a small country, but as far as development aid is concerned, we are a great power and that gives influence over African countries. The Secretary of State knows all about that. I wasn't a minister that long, but in the short time I was, I saw it too. Martin Lidegaard also says that when you have such a high profile in that area, it also gives influence. It allows for contacts, allows for influence, and also allows business to obtain contracts. A lot of this is based on having been able to count on us, and that's why it's not enough that we're just talking about law here. So if, as I have to say, you withdraw some of the commitments you have made, then it will also have moral consequences which, in turn, will have consequences in relation to the confidence you can have in us, which in turn will have consequences for our freedom of action on foreign policy. You just have to be aware of that. This is not just a matter of saving some money on some lines of the Finance Act. This has implications for the entire Danish foreign policy. This applies to the general cuts, but also, of course, to cutting back on the commitments made for 2015, when a lot of people had expected that we, as a state, actually lived up to those commitments. So it's not good. I am sorry that the Conservatives are not here today. I understood that the Left could speak on behalf of the Conservatives, especially because the Conservatives have actually been critical of this and have said that they were opposed to these cuts in 2015. So it can therefore be said that this proposal has been made to a great extent to hear the Conservatives' position on it. It is therefore a pity that we cannot be allowed to ask what they actually mean and what they meant when they earlier expressed some views which meant that they should actually support this proposal. But we will have to wait until we get it in committee and for the second reading. However, as I said, I welcome the support that comes from different parties. I'm not happy with the government's cuts in this area. I believe that this will have very, very great consequences, and then the rest of us will have to fight further against those cuts. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117191500	No one has signed up to short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151117191521	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 18 November 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
