ParlaMint-DK_20150227100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 157 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on digging and expropriation, etc.) for telecommunications purposes, the law on electronic communications networks and services and the law on competition (common exploitation of passive physical infrastructure, preparation of buildings for high-speed networks, requirements for increased non-discrimination in the launch of new or substantially modified retail products, sectoral merger control and free wifi for tourism purposes, etc.)). Per Clausen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 87 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the levy on wood-burning furnaces in collective energy-supply areas). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. • If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. • If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. • If you have any further questions, The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has reported on the responsibility of ministers to the Folketing. 6). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. At the request of the Left, R 9 on the notification by the administration of coercive measures and information obligations outside criminal justice is being negotiated on Thursday 19 March 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227100108	The debate is open. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227100130	Thank you. On my way in this morning, I couldn't help thinking about the symbolism of one of my favorite bands, Kraftwerk, who published Man-Machine and Trans-Europe Express, playing a concert in DR's concert hall tonight. It is a band that more than 35 years ago predicted the technological developments that we are in the middle of today, when we are now going to deal with L 140 on digital self-service. It is a legislative proposal which deals with the fourth and last of the so-called waves, which, as a starting point, must make it compulsory to use digital self-service when you want to contact the public. From 2012 until today, we have dealt with the first three waves, and today we have come to the wave, among other things. concerns claims for sickness benefit, application for driver's certificates, personal allowances and health allowances and other benefits. This is a mixed country trade in which we provide the legal basis for the introduction of digital self-service requirements by 2015. 88% of all Danes between 16 and 89 years of age are online every day or at least once a week, and the proportion of those who have never been on the web has decreased • not so much from 7%. in 2013 to 6%. In 2014, however, this corresponds to a decrease of 64,000 people. This is positive, because every year the public sector can save millions of kroner on digitising application procedures and contact forms, rather than all that goes into paper piles and letter post. Of course, the Left is in favour of this, since, as you know, we are in favour of efficiency and full use of public sector resources. The public must go further on the liter. The flexibility that comes with digitalisation is also an advantage for citizens, given that in the future you will have increased opportunities to do your job with the authorities from home 24 hours a day, instead of having to rely on the opening hours of citizens' services. However, the transition to digital self-service must be slipping and we must be careful that we do not run so fast that certain sections of the population are dropped off. I am thinking not least of the sickness benefit sector, which we are also dealing with today, where there will certainly be a group of weak citizens, but also of the group of elderly people, where some will need extra help. Of course, we must take care of them too. For some people it will even be necessary to completely exempt them from digital self-service, but it must depend on an assessment of the individual, and this is an assessment which the draft law envisages to be carried out in the individual municipalities. I would also like to point out that there are, unfortunately, areas in Denmark which are unable to use digital self-service because the coverage is incredibly low. That may also be a reason for exception, and it is important that we clarify it during the committee procedure. We have one small point which we would like to mention and which has also been mentioned by the Council of Lawyers, and that is the need for an automatic letter of receipt. When you send an application for sickness benefit, for example, and you do so via the web and not via a traditional e-mail, you do not have proof that you have sent your application if you do not automatically receive a receipt. If you're going to a concert with Kraftwerk, once you've paid your tickets, you'll automatically get a receipt. Of course, we must also ensure that this happens in the same way in the public sector. However, as I have said, the Left is all in favour of the fact that, as a starting point, it will be compulsory to use digital self-service, as long as this is done in an appropriate way for the citizens. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left supports the bill. And then I salute our friends in the Conservative People's Party and say that the Conservatives also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227100527	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Karin Gaardsted as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227100535	Today, we are dealing with the fourth and final wave of compulsory digital self-service, and this means that there is a demand that the citizens who can should make even more use of digital self-service on the web. In this wave there will be even more areas, so we will land in a total of 89 areas where digital self-service is in the future. If you have to request access to your own data in the CPR register, you will complain about the health services to the Patient Information Service, or if you want to apply for subsidies for medicines purchased in another EU or EEA country, yes, you will have to resort to the keys in the future. Until now, we have seen that the citizens are watching very well. For example: 8 per cent used. by applicants the digital solution to apply for address protection in 2011, and 3 years later, in 2014, it had increased to 83%. From 8 to 83%. is a significant advance, and that is the trend in many areas. I am not really surprised, because many people see it as a great liberation that you can communicate with the public at any time and anywhere 24 hours a day 7 days a week. You don't have to be dependent on personal attendance, opening hours or telephone queues, which can make even the quietest secret excited. It is a service that many citizens value and actually expect. Having said all this, there are, of course, citizens who are not as familiar with the digital solution as others are, and we must take that seriously, and we are doing so. For, of course, we take into account all the citizens who, for one reason or another, cannot use the digital solution, including the elderly. The authorities assess individually on a case-by-case basis whether the citizen should be exempted from the digital solution, and I have to say that I have not yet met anyone who has been refused exemption. It is a strong social democratic desire to ensure that the weak citizens who have to apply for sickness benefit, apply for personal allowances or apply for health allowances, continue to report directly to their own municipality and therefore not to via Disbursement Denmark. Does it matter? Yes, it has, for you can be very pressured and have difficulty understanding your rights when you are sick or weak. The local citizen service may already be known, and there will be special attention to whether you receive the right treatment and benefits to which you are entitled. I myself have worked hard to ensure that this is the way it should be, so it is very satisfactory. In the debate on digitalisation, several people have said that, if you have been exempted from digital mail, you should automatically be exempted from digital self-service. That view may actually seem very logical, but the two things should not be combined, because there is a very big difference. In the digital self-service, the citizen carries out an active action. For example, we are looking for something like this. about housing support, notification of removal or change of doctor, that is, actions that you can determine for yourself whether you want help from relatives. On the other hand, the digital mail information is coming in, which the citizen does not know in advance about. It may be information of a very private nature about your health or economy, or it may be information that you may not want to share with your neighbor or daughter, or who else you could get to help you. That is why it is very important for us to be able to be exempted from the digital mail, but it is not quite the same as the digital self-service. Have we reached the end of the road? No, in future we will be keen to continue to develop our systems so that it becomes easy, simple and logical for citizens. User-friendliness must be at the top of the list, and I believe that citizens are right to make that demand. Something really remains to be done here, and I would like to stress here from the platform that we have an eye for it. This bill helps to safeguard the future of our society and, above all, to make our welfare societies more efficient. We owe it to each other and, above all, to future generations. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227101014	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ib Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227101028	Thank you. This is the fourth and last digital wave rolling over the Danes. In the Danish People's Party, we are extremely sceptical about this development with increased digitisation. Here we are wondering whether weak citizens will be caught up in the system, be it citizens with special needs, elderly people, disabled people, demented, socially vulnerable, homeless people or people with a lack of literacy and IT skills. In the Danish People's Party, unlike the previous speaker, we believe that if you are once exempted from digital mail, it must also apply to the digital wave. We believe that if you are exempt from using some digital services that we are discussing here, then it is quite clear that you should also be exempt from using others. In the Danish People's Party, we find it problematic that in the case of refusal of an exception to this digital wave there is no remedy. I wonder whether it is entirely according to the rules in force. As far as the handling of a complaint is concerned, the clear position of the Danish People's Party is that the doubt should benefit the citizen. We believe that the government is too busy in this area, unlike in so many other areas. It would have been an idea if the government had been as busy in securing all Danes access to the Internet as they are in imposing digitalisation on them. The government is talking about doing something for the outskirtsdanmark, but there's something behind here. The last few years are over 5%. moved from the country and in the same period more than 7%. moved to the larger cities. A good example of the government supporting this trend is that in some rural areas you cannot get online. Then why move there, let alone stay there? Here, where digitization has rolled out completely, it would be interesting to know how many have not got the Internet rolled out to them yet. As regards various benefits such as sickness benefit and unemployment benefit, DF considers that it is not necessary to be penalised for a deadline being exceeded, so that the citizen risks having to go out and prove that the network was down or the PC was for repair. It is quite unreasonable that you can lose benefits if it does not work. We will clearly demand an evaluation of the effectiveness of the first three waves of digitalisation and of the effectiveness of the efforts made. In DF, as we have been in the past, we are very sceptical about this proposal, and before the last reading, DF will come up with some amendments to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227101332	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227101342	Thank you for the floor. Radical Left is a major supporter of digitalisation in the public sector, which is why this fourth wave of digital self-service solutions that we are discussing today is a really important step on this road. Digital self-service solutions are a win-win situation, as it is called in modern Danish. On the one hand, we will have a more public administration. So it frees money for core welfare in relation to children and older people, which is a very good thing. On the other hand, we will also have a better service to citizens who can serve 24-7 and do not have to wait for the municipal office to be open. This is of particular benefit to the families of children. With regard to the question of whether citizens with special needs can be helped otherwise than through these self-service solutions, we are pleased that in specific cases help can be provided by other means on the telephone or at the citizens' service centres. The Radical Left therefore supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227101439	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227101453	It is very good that we are ready to adopt the fourth and last part of the digitisation strategy. By the end of 2015, the adoption will end with paper, forms and letter mail, and hopefully 80% will. of the applications and notifications and notifications received by the public authorities shall be digital. This is good because it is easier for the vast majority of citizens and easier and more efficient for public authorities. Having said that, it is crucial that the digitisation strategy takes account of the citizens who are not on the digital wave, and we must not forget them. This has been crucial for the SF from the start. Among other things: Elders The case and the National Association of Social Pedagogues also point out in their consultation answer that special consideration must be given to citizens who cannot use digital self-service. It does not really matter whether it is due to stress, disability or lack of learning and experience; it is crucial that there are citizens who need a particularly lenient effort, and we must ensure that they do. The SF welcomes the Minister of Finance's emphasis that the authorities should continue to provide holistic assistance and guidance to those who need it and that citizens should be informed about redress. Here we think it is important that we follow implementation closely and listen to those organisations, for example. Elders Sagen and the National Association of Social Pedagogues, who have a very good knowledge of groups that can experience challenges when the digital universe expands. The SF supports the proposal and we welcome the gains that both citizens and public authorities have from technological development.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227101619	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227101626	It is quite true, as several of the rapporteurs before me have said, that this is a continuation of three waves, and we have now reached the fourth. It has become almost a tradition that we meet in the Folketing during the spring and discuss this with mandatory digital self-service and mandatory digital mail. As in previous legislative proposals, Enhedslisten votes no. Today, you can report a transfer or apply for sickness benefit. In the future, therefore, the bill must force people to use digital self-service, and we believe that it should continue to be voluntary. When, a few years ago, we invited a large number of the country's experts to a hearing in the Municipal Committee on digitalisation in the public sector, they broadly agreed that we should invest in volunteering rather than force citizens to the computer. And this is due to the fact that when it comes to using digital solutions, it is usually the citizen who is best at assessing whether it is the digital self-service or whether it is a call from the citizen service, which is the right way for the citizen to communicate. And that is true, whether you are used to using a computer, whether you have a disability, or whether you are older. It can be true of all of us that when it comes to contacting the public authorities, just finding around the rules on sickness benefits in itself can be difficult, and we can all need to talk to someone, look a person in the eye, feel that someone is listening to our questions and answering them. We are in favour of looking at at least linking it up so that those who are excluded from digital mail are also excluded from digital self-service. I do not think there is any reason why people should look over and over again, and if they want to make use of the mandatory digital self-service, or at least of the self-service solution, then there would be nothing to prevent one from doing so anyway, even if one has an exception. In fact, I think that one of the most interesting things is to discuss this forward-looking, because this is the last wave of the digitalisation strategy that has been running since 2012. And when we look forward and look at what is going to happen in the next phase, I think it is extremely important that we then not only roar on the same path, but use the opportunity to learn from the process we have been through. And I think that one of the major shortcomings of the digital self-service that we have today is the lack of user-friendliness. I often come across all sorts of friends and acquaintances and family members of all sorts of ages that some of what frustrates the most is how difficult it is to find around these self-service solutions. I think this is because the focus has been too much on how the authorities could obtain some information that the authorities could use, and too little has been on how citizens could get a good service out of the digital option. So I think that the next phase should focus to a large extent on user-friendliness and focus on the citizen's perspective, in terms of what the digital actually can when it comes to service and communication. I hope that the Minister for Finance will take some kind of initiative so that the Folketing can have joint discussions on how the next phase of the digitisation strategies could look. But so, because today I can say that we do not support the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102002	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102009	When Liberal Alliance's municipal rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, cannot be present today, I will read out this rapporteur's speech on his behalf: this bill will continue the digitisation of written communication between citizens and authorities, so that it includes among other things. request for sickness benefit, personal allowances and health allowances, consent to the issue of child certificates, the lodging of health claims, the lodging of complaints from air passengers, the application for driver training certificates and several other matters. The Liberal Alliance supports that. Digitisation gives both citizens and authorities access to easier communication with each other. It saves people and authorities time to write to each other without the citizens having to have forms on paper and without having to print, copy, buy stamps and go to the mailbox, and without the authorities having to file papers and manually write in information from papers for digital registration. Digitalisation therefore plays a positive role in making the public sector more cost-effective and in facilitating the daily lives of citizens. This does not mean, of course, that everything is joy and old. And that is not the case today when citizens have to fill out their applications on paper. Any transition to new ways of doing things can involve adaptation problems, and they must be addressed. It must always be possible for people who have special problems with the new systems to be guided, either by telephone or by attendance, or to be completely exempt from using them. But the problems must not stop us from making a change that we know will be better, especially when the initial difficulties are over. The Liberal Alliance can vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102212	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102222	Thank you very much for that and many thanks to the rapporteurs for their contributions. I am, of course, pleased that this year's debate reflects the fact that we in the Folketing are very far along the way and broadly agreed that if we are to reform and thus ensure the future of our welfare society, yes, it is quite obvious to use the digital opportunities that exist in this regard. What we are discussing today, as many rapporteurs have noted, is the last of a total of four draft laws on mandatory digital self-service. As you know, the Danish Parliament has already adopted the first three collective laws on digital self-service for the areas that became digital in the years 2012-2014. And with the areas covered by wave 4, i.e. the areas that became digital for all of us on 1 December 2014, we are well on our way to the goal of 80 per cent. communication between citizens and public authorities takes place digitally before the end of this year. After all, the draft law continues according to exactly the same concept as the three previous legislative proposals, and it is a concept that has been developed with the involvement of a number of parties, not least the National Association of Municipalities and thus the municipalities. The approach remains that citizens who can should also use digital self-service. And the experience of wave 1-3 confirms me that we have found a very good balance, I think, with a model to ensure that no one is left behind and that everyone gets the help that is needed, even if communication becomes digital. Several sides of the debate that has led to our discussions here today, and also in the discussion of the bill itself and, most recently, in connection with Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution B 72, have expressed the view that the citizen who is exempt from receiving digital mail should also be automatically exempted from using digital self-service. I understand very well that this approach can appear to be appealing from such an immediate point of view, because I am extremely aware that for some it may be very difficult or even impossible to use the digital self-service solution. That is why there is also concern for the individual citizen, who makes it necessary for the authorities on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the ability and the situation of the citizen, to assess whether the citizen should be served in a way other than the digital one. This gives the authorities the freedom and flexibility to help and serve the less digital citizens in the way that is considered to be best for the individual. And that assessment lies in my optics best with the individual authorities, especially the municipalities, which are closest to the citizens, and not, therefore, through a general exemption from all digital communications. In this respect, I have noted that the KL also maintains that this is the most obvious approach to self-service. We cannot offer the same flexibility in digital mail, where the citizen is unsolicited and unexpectedly receiving letters from the public authorities and where the citizen must be able to open and read his mail at all times. There we need to be sure that the citizen can check the digital mail we send, and if the citizen cannot do so, then we will send the letter by ordinary mail. Having said all that, it is clear that we must be aware of whether the rules are working properly. Therefore, the Danish Digitisation Authority has started a discussion with a number of municipalities, with KL and with Payout Denmark to get a comprehensive picture of any challenges with the exemption rules and the way in which they are managed in practice. In this way, we will, among other things, be able to do so. ensure that the principles of exemption are clearly communicated to the employees who meet the citizens in practice so that the citizen can get the best possible service every time. We must remember that the vast majority of both Danes and authorities have actually welcomed our joint efforts to provide citizens with a modern and efficient online service. And bearing in mind this and the experience we have already gained, I am confident to demand digitalisation in the last series of areas of wave 4 covered by the legislative proposal we are discussing today. And, of course, I am prepared to answer the various questions that may be raised during the course of the committee procedure that follows.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102650	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102707	The debate is open. Sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102726	Thank you. Since Mrs Ellemann, the rapporteur for Social Affairs, cannot be here today, I should like to read out the following: with this bill, an unprecedented focus has been placed on a particular group of drug addicts, who, with the adoption of this bill, are guaranteed an anonymous treatment offer. We in the Left welcome the recognition of a target group made up of citizens who, apart from drug abuse, are not socially burdened, that is. citizens who have a common link with the labour market or are in education. They may be people with a so - called double life, for whom it is unthinkable to be recognized as a drug addict. These are people we do not normally see addressing a general treatment offer for fear of environmental recognition. The anonymity is therefore an essential prerequisite for their way out of the abuse, and in the course of the pool negotiations the Left was aware of the citizen's access to maintain anonymity during the treatment. This bill takes into account the possibility of both electronic and telephone contact, together with the possibility of anonymity throughout the outpatient course. This requires thought in relation to the location of e.g. the treatment site. The Left has high expectations of the results of this extensive effort and wishes to stress the importance of the municipalities' handling of the anonymous abuse treatment. With this bill, we recognise a previously overlooked target group and take an important step to prevent the occurrence of social problems in addition to drug abuse. Against this background, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102935	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227102941	Thank you. Anyone can get into trouble. Anyone can lose a step or stumble on the road to life. I think that is a completely humane view and recognition that we all have. But as a society and as a community, we have a responsibility to help our fellow citizens up and get them back on track again. That is exactly what we are doing with the proposal we are dealing with today. We are handing out a helping hand to some of the people who, unfortunately, under normal circumstances would not even seek the help that we as a society offer. In fact, in all sorts of other areas of life, these are resourceful people who have ended up in drug abuse. It is people with a job, people in education, people with ordinary lives, but also people who have great difficulty in facing up to the fact that they have become abusers and therefore will not seek treatment at normal abuse centres, even though they really need help to get life back on track. These are the people to whom this bill is directed. It is important that we give them a helping hand, and it is also important that we accept them before they lose their jobs; before they get divorced; before they drop the education they are doing because the abuse gets out of hand. The proposal has a long, long history behind it, and it has broad political support. Most importantly, we know from the studies that it has some very promising prospects. For the experimental project, Project Anonymous Drug Abuse Treatment, was launched in connection with the 2010 Rate Pool Agreement and the projects then ran from 2010 until 2013 in Copenhagen and Odense. With the 2014 Rate Pool Agreement, they were then extended by 1 year, and finally, in the autumn, we agreed that we should extend the project further, this time until 1 July 2015, when the proposal we are dealing with today can take over and make it permanent. The Danish Social Protection Agency has carried out an evaluation of the experimental projects in Copenhagen and Odense, and it actually shows several interesting points and results. Firstly, the progress projects succeed in reaching a group of people who have not previously sought out the treatment system, and this is, of course, very positive in itself. They are people who live in an incriminating double life, in which they constantly have to hide their abuse from their employer, their spouse, their children or their friends. Secondly, the experimental projects produced very good results. In 2011 and 2012, 430 people were enrolled for treatment in Copenhagen and Odense. 59 per cent. the process was completed, and out of them 39 per cent had been completed. not used during the last 30 days of treatment. Thirdly, the pilot projects showed that discretion and anonymity were absolutely crucial to the target group, and that is why we have put great emphasis on this in the final legislative proposal. But it was also something that we spent an extraordinary amount of time discussing with each other in connection with the adoption, where we were around in all sorts of crinkle hooks with whether you could put your thumb over the health insurance card and how we best arranged it in a way that we could both find out how the cash flows should be, while there was an anonymity. It is quite complex, although it may seem relatively banal. But that is the cornerstone of this proposal: it must be done anonymously, because we are talking about a group that lives on a daily basis hiding their abuse from employers, from friends, from spouses, from educational establishments, etc. So the anonymity is at the center. We are committed, among other things. the municipalities to enter into agreements with at least two treatment sites, one of which must be outside the municipality, and that is exactly in line with the anonymity. Now I come from a relatively small town, Korsør on West Zealand, and anonymity is very good, but everyone knows each other. So if you walk in through the door, it's very anonymous and white, everyone knows what it leads to, and then the anonymity goes completely. That is why it is vital for us that one of the offers with which agreements are made should be outside the municipality limit, so that, as a citizen, we can look elsewhere and thus have anonymity, even if we live outside the cities. It will also be the case that when you turn to the municipality for help, you can do it anonymously via a website or by calling, and then, of course, you have to have a clarificational conversation with the municipality to find out what treatment you should have and whether you even fit into the target group. That conversation must also be as discreet as possible and it can be done, for example. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. The same applies, of course, to the treatment itself. It can, for example: In this way you have the opportunity to do your job even if you go into treatment and then avoid sharing the entrance with, for example, the treatment site. a non-anonymous treatment site. We in the Social Democratic Party are very happy with the way we have landed this proposal, because it will mean that just because people are losing a step at some point, it does not mean that they are lost. With this proposal, we can catch people before losing a single step means that you may lose the whole course of life that you otherwise have going on. So, of course, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227103456	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Karin Nødgaard as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227103508	When you think of a drug addict, you probably often get a picture of a person who looks a little overwhelmed, a person who has several forms of abuse, one who has experienced a childhood of failure and deprivation and often a lack of resources for parents both financially and humanly. There may not be a specific definition of a drug addict. Like everyone else, drug addicts are also people with their own history and background, which is why we cannot say today that the addicts are in a certain way, because each individual is in its own way. Part of the real world is that there are actually drug addicts who look like most of us, who in appearance are well-functioning, who are immediately happy and adapted people with family, jobs and housing, and what is involved, but who have been trapped deep down by the disgusting nature of drug abuse. There is no doubt that it must be one of the most disgusting things that can happen to a person and that drug abuse in the same way as alcohol abuse can pierce your body and soul up in a way where you yourself are not the one who can act and decide because there is some kind of demon that has taken your body. It's as unhappy as anything can be. It is so hard to take the fight with this demon who has taken up residence in your body, and for many it is a very lonely and often invincible battle that must be fought. Some make it, but there are also some who do not make it and end up in a personal deroute, where it only goes one way and it is down. It's very, very sad. Could it be said, as a legislator, that we as a society can do this by banning drugs or alcohol for that matter, of course, it could be worth considering, but we know that this is quite impossible from a realistic point of view. Unfortunately, drugs are available, and that is why I think it is important for us as a society to find out how we can take action to help those who have been caught by the abuse. Some can be helped, and others are facing greater challenges, both for society and for the individual. There is, of course, the whole question of recognising that you have an abuse. This realization may be easier for the person who looks a little overwhelmed and who lives in an abuse environment. More difficult it is for the immediately ordinary, well-functioning person who lives a life with a hidden abuse... a person who has fought so hard for others not to discover anything, struggled to keep the nice facade and maintain what one might call the nice life. That's the group that this bill is about. For the Danish People's Party, it is gratifying that we in the movement pool, also on several occasions, have focused attention on the group of citizens who have an abuse and who need help to get out of it. There is no doubt that it is difficult to recognise an abuse, but it must be even harder when one has acknowledged it, so also to ask for help. In fact, I think it is admirable that we can get there. When that recognition is reached and you want help, I think it is good that you can get an offer of anonymous outpatient treatment. It is precisely in the way that is estimated to be a path that can actually change a person's life from being an addict to being a person without abuse. It's a fight human, but it's a fight worth fighting because there can be so much good after you win. When the treatment can be done anonymously, it will do, if I may say so, the fight to get back into a normal routine a little easier. This has been demonstrated by attempts at the scheme, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, and it is therefore important that a decision is now taken to make it possible for many more drug addicts who alone have drug abuse and not other social problems. As the previous rapporteur mentioned, there is also the whole question of how to comply with the requirement of anonymity. I myself asked questions, even when we were sitting and negotiating, and others did, and we just have to say that we have to be able to do so. As a citizen, we must be sure that those authorities who become aware of your situation must respect their professional secrecy. The Danish People's Party considers that this proposal makes it possible to oblige municipalities to initiate an offer of anonymous treatment for persons who have an abuse, but not other social problems, and persons who would not otherwise have sought out the treatment system. That's pretty important. This is the way forward to prevent abuse from either escalating or becoming part of other social problems, which may eventually end up crippling individuals both physically and mentally. Therefore, the Danish People's Party is very pleased with this, as we have agreed in the movement pool circle, and of course look forward to following it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227103946	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227103955	Some people with a seemingly quite common life with family, education, and jobs are struggling with drug abuse, and without help they risk ruining their lives. Perhaps everyone in the family doesn't know, employers and colleagues shouldn't at least find out, which is why it's crucial for these people that they can be anonymous for them to even seek help. Many of them are simply afraid that their daily lives will crumble if their drug abuse becomes known to neighbours, colleagues or perhaps by an employer. With this proposal, it will therefore be possible to have a clarificational conversation and to be considered without having to give your name or your CPR number. And, as the Socialist rapporteur said, it is not difficult to imagine how important it is that there is, in fact, completely discreet access. We build on the good experiences from Copenhagen and Odense. Now it will be an opportunity throughout the country, and it gives hope that we will succeed in early treatment and thus succeed in avoiding some of the social problems that might otherwise result from drug abuse. So the Radical Left would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227104117	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the SF rapporteur, Mrs Trine Mach, who is running.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227104130	Thank you. Since the SF rapporteur cannot be here today, I have promised to read her speech. In SF, we're really excited about this bill. A number of years ago, the SF had a motion for a resolution which gave rise to the initiation of anonymised drug treatment trials. The results have been so good that it now makes sense to spread them throughout the country. The proposal is aimed at a growing group of addicts with a hidden abuse of hashish, cocaine, ecstasy or amphetamines, a seemingly well-functioning group of people with work and families. Many of these addicts do not go into treatment because they do not experience themselves as real drug addicts. In addition, those concerned do not wish to be a matter in a municipality. Even people who have openly recognised that they have an abuse fail to seek treatment when they are made aware that municipal administrations will gain insight into their abuse problems. There may be different reasons for this. Some lack confidence that confidentiality is respected in the municipal administration. They fear that information about deeply personal relationships will end in the wrong place and fear the response from the environment. But it may also be that the actual abuser disputes a perhaps high-ranking position in the very municipality which is responsible for the treatment or payment for it. Regardless of the reasons, there are people who want to be drug-free but who do not ask for help in the public system because they cannot be treated anonymously and therefore do not receive the help they need. The attempts of the last few years on anonymous drug treatment have been successful, and therefore we in the SF are now pleased that we are extending the possibility of anonymous drug treatment to the whole country, so that municipalities are obliged to launch offers of anonymous outpatient treatment for people who have a drug use, but not other social problems. We are pleased that the proposal states that it must also be possible to search for offers outside one's own municipality, just as it makes sense that the visitation should not necessarily take place at the municipality, but should also take place directly on the offer if the municipal council decides. We also believe that it is a good thing that it is stressed that the offer should be placed separately from other treatment offers. Hopefully, the proposal will give more addicts the opportunity to get treatment and help to get out of their abuses before there is a risk that their lives with family, education, social relations and work will collapse. That is why the SF is happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227104346	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur who comes running.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227104358	Of course, the Enhedslisten can also support this bill for the many good reasons that many have already spoken about here from the platform. However, we have to say on the Enhedslisten side that we would have liked it to be a little less a discount version of what is needed. First of all, we agree with several of the parties to the consultation that the target group is too narrow, that is to say to exclude people who, for example, are in the process of being consulted. is affected by unemployment. This seems strange to us, and it should probably be more up to a concrete assessment in each case whether it is this offer that you need. The target group should therefore be extended in order to adapt the offer and the need for anonymity to others. Secondly, the requirement for local visits may prevent some from addressing, as several interested parties have also pointed out, if the anonymity is very important to them. Several consultation parties, e.g. The social educators, the Danish Nursing Council and the Danish Social Advisor Association have to be said to be some of the people who know something about the area and are critical of the fact that it is the municipality that has to search for the treatment. The Ministry, as has also been mentioned here earlier from the platform, has responded to that criticism by pointing out that there must be access to contact the municipality and be searched without giving name and cpr number, and by the fact that the clarifying conversation must take place in discreet surroundings as it is called. I am not sure that this is good enough for people who are very afraid of being identified and who are afraid of the social consequences in the circle and at work if anyone should find that they have an abuse. As several people have pointed out, this is an offer aimed at people who, moreover, are well-functioning and therefore anonymity is very, very important to them. But even if it is true that no one will be discouraged from participating because of the visitation, I still find it difficult to understand why you cannot turn directly to the offer in question. If you had both options, so that you could both approach the municipality and the offer in question, it might pick up more people who need treatment. Finally, I would also like to mention another criticism that has been made, namely that the treatment offer is narrow because it can only involve group therapy and a single individual conversation to end a process. I have to say that it is certainly retail regulation, so it would be something that group therapy should be the treatment. There may therefore be a need for other measures, and not everyone responds equally well to this type of treatment. Although you can list a great many good elements about it, and although, as has also been mentioned here, there has been success with it in the project "Anonymous Drug Abuse Treatment," not everyone can be included in the same forms of treatment, and not everyone needs the same forms of treatment. We think that is a little too narrow. We are a little sad that it is a discount version, as I said, but we are positive that it is the first small step, and that is why we will of course support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227104740	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227104750	As the previous rapporteurs have pointed out, the aim of this draft law is to oblige municipalities to make offers for anonymous outpatient treatment to persons who have a drug abuse, but not other social problems, and which otherwise cannot be expected to have sought out the treatment system. The aim is thus to prevent this group of citizens from developing social problems in addition to drug abuse in the long term. Of course, the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal, and at the same time I should like to welcome the Conservatives' support for L 132 and look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227104836	Thank you. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227104844	Thank you, President. I would like to express my thanks for all the good comments that have been made and, as such, also for the good debate. A drug abuse that starts as part of a festive weekend or something you do with friends after work can, as several rapporteurs have quite rightly said, develop into a serious problem and it can also develop into a serious social problem. This is just about prevention. This may have major consequences for the individual and, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is not only for the individual, but also for the surroundings for the family, friends and so on. That is why I am really pleased that with the bill on anonymous outpatient drug treatment, we ensure that we have the right treatment options for people who are struggling precisely with drug abuse but who do not have other social problems. An anonymous treatment offer can help to ensure that we get people into early treatment and, as I started by saying, prevent them from developing the social problems that often come with long-term drug abuse. We know from the experimental projects that have been in both Copenhagen and Odense that anonymity in the treatment plays a crucial role in motivating this group to start in a course of treatment. The anonymity is really important because these people often have an ordinary everyday life with family, work and friends, and of course it can also be people who are in the process of education. And they may, as virtually everyone has said, be afraid that this everyday life will crumble if their drug abuse becomes known. As usual, I look forward to the committee reading and we will of course, as usual, answer any questions the committee may have. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227105048	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227105104	The debate is open. Sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227105125	As Mrs Karen Ellemann, the rapporteur on Social Affairs, cannot be present today, I should like to say on her behalf that no woman should live in fear of violence from her partner and that all women should be able to receive help in a life without violence. The current regime includes advice only for women with children, and in the Left we find it basically right that women without children staying in a shelter should also be able to receive help after their stay for a life without violence, especially when we can see that women without children in shelters have suffered as much violence as women with children. That is why the Left supports the proposal to strengthen action for women in crisis centres. However, we can be concerned about the accountability of crisis centres to municipalities. If a woman moves from the shelter or wishes to remain anonymous, technicalities relating to the obligation to provide guidance to the municipalities and the question of which municipality the woman may be associated with must not stand in the way of the necessary help for a life without violence. The Left will look at these challenges in committee. All in all, the Left looks forward to being able to vote in favour of this draft law, L 138, after a constructive committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227105259	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227105306	We are talking about the fact that it is one of these proposals where it is actually absurd that it is not already so. In other words, how it has ever actually come about that there is a distinction between the advice you get, whether you have children or not. I mean, I can easily see that the need is extra large when you have children, but of course there must also be advice for women who are victims of violence, even if they have no children. Let's do it. That's so good. Then I would just say, instead of repeating what the rapporteur of the Left has said, because I think we are very much in agreement on this, that it can be done anonymously, that is. that the municipality then becomes aware that there is a citizen, but not who it is. Now I am not going to put questions to the rapporteur of the Left, because I assume that the speech was made on behalf of another rapporteur, and then it is not usually customary, but I would just like to clarify that it is possible to be anonymous and yet to indicate which municipality you come from and thus get the advice you need. And anonymity, following on from the proposal we discussed before this, is also in this case sometimes very important for women. For us, it is important for the municipalities to have this obligation to provide information, and when it is important, it is of course because if the municipalities do not have knowledge that there is a citizen they have to help, then it is difficult for the municipalities to help the person concerned. Then it's gonna be a guessing game. It just doesn't work. So it is crucial that the municipality is told that there is a woman and that she needs advice, so that they know that it is now that they have to move out and that it has to be done as early as possible. The legal text distinguishes between initial and coordinating advice. This simply means that as soon as possible women must have that conversation with an employee from the municipality who can advise on everything from housing, economics, the labour market, school, day care and health care, and the coordinating advice, that is, what can be called substantive counselling, must be put into effect at the latest when the woman starts preparing to move out of the shelter. So that's what's meant by the difference between those words. Yes, and this is, of course, the basic thrust of the proposal, so you can say that it is a small proposal, but for the women involved, it is of course incredibly important that we put in place a tighter safety net around them when they get into the situation that they have been subjected to violence. Perhaps it is for the women involved, the biggest crisis they will ever face in their lives, and it is of course crucial that we close the safety net around them as far as possible. So, of course, the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227105525	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227105537	As with the previous proposal, in which we talked about the terrible thing that can happen to one's life in connection with drug abuse, we must also say that when one is subjected to violence, it is surely one of the most terrible things that can be experienced as a human being. Violence is, in fact, a matter of punishing another person and showing that one has a superiority, a physical or mental strength or power, in an attempt to weaken another person. Reports of violence are everyday in the media and in the news, and in films there are many genres of violence as a theme. When it is reports from the real world, we as citizens deal with it with disgust and abhorrence and sometimes with a form of powerlessness, or here at Christiansborg, with a political discussion on how we can do things better to prevent violence. When it's on film, we can either turn off the TV if it gets too much, or just watch a movie as entertainment. Afterwards life continues unchanged, at least for most of us. There are probably some, unfortunately, who are affected and inspired by what they see, both in news and on movies. Of course, I am not going to use my speaking time for that now, but I really think it is quite interesting. For some people, everyday life with violence is not a movie that you can just turn off, or something that happens elsewhere, with your neighbor or in other countries. For some it is reality and everyday life. The fact that this is the case is totally unacceptable. It is sad that some people often see violence and power as part of a relationship with some people that they have loved or still loved. What makes you suddenly decide to hurt another person? What makes you think that there is someone in your vicinity who is so close to you that you want to hurt so much, maybe even someone you have some kids with. As you know, reality is such for some people in Denmark, and it can be both men and women who are subjected to violence from a partner. This proposal concerns women, women who end up in women's crisis centres. And now, with a smile on my face, I can say that the debate on men and men crisis centres is taking place elsewhere at the moment. But it should not be forgotten, it is also important. There is no doubt that the work being done at the women's crisis centres is an incredibly good job. It is a job that actually allows you to go in and help some women who are in a quite unhappy situation where they have often had to leave the safe, private environment at least those who should be safe and leave everything they own and have, sometimes accompanied by children, because it is no longer possible to be near your parties because it is violence. You can't stop thinking about those women who used to have no place to escape. They remained in the violent frame and were even more harmed to body and soul and mind, just as their children did. So fortunately there is today an anchoring of the women's crisis centres, and they are also widely available in Denmark. In the pool, we have focused on improving the situation of women who stay at women's crisis centres, but also on the fact that women, whether they have children or not, have the opportunity to get out of the centres with a strengthened confidence and belief that there is a life without violence that awaits them and that it is important that they do not return to a violent partner. There is no doubt that there is a need for increased counselling along the way and after. This benefits both the individual woman, the possible children and the authorities, both in the shorter and longer term. The vulnerability of a woman may be difficult to remove completely, but everything that can be done to reduce it needs to be done, and it is here that the measures contained in this proposal should help to improve it. It is essential to ensure that those women who have been at a women's crisis centre have a life so that they do not need to return again. Unfortunately, there is a tendency to do so, as we see today that 35%. of the women actually returning. The involvement of the municipalities is also essential. It is not always the municipalities that have the necessary knowledge that women are in a crisis centre, or they will only be aware of it relatively late. We must work to improve this, and I believe that we will actually do so with this proposal. It is important that the municipalities have the necessary knowledge so that they can initiate assistance for the woman, whether she is staying at a shelter alone or whether she has children with her, and so that the municipality can help organise a coherent effort for the woman both during and after the stay. The introduction of an obligation to provide information should contribute to this. The rapidity of this is an essential condition for women to have a better life and to learn to live with their past and with a hope and an expectation of a better future without violence and oppression. The Danish People's Party hopes that with this part of the pool funds we will contribute to the success of violence-stricken women and their potential children in life that they have not had so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110035	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110043	Thank you. In fact, I feel a bit like my Socialist colleague, namely that this is one of the things that is so obvious that one wonders why it has not been like this all along. Because I think that as politicians we must make an effort to help the women affected by violence to create a new life free from violence. And with this bill, we are expanding and strengthening the current family counselling system, so that women who do not have children also have the opportunity to participate in it at shelters. In addition, the women's crisis centres and welfare homes must inform the municipality in connection with admission and printing. And they have to, so that the municipality can help create a safe and good and new life for these women as soon as possible. So I actually just think that as a radical rapporteur I would like to say thank you to the pool of rates, because we could agree on this. We are happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110153	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Mach as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110202	Thank you. As the SF rapporteur cannot be here today, I will read her speech. Violence against women is a major problem and it is important that more women are given the courage and strength to quit and leave violent relationships. The crisis centres play a very important role here. Knowing that there is an opportunity for a Hellenic and a helping hand may also be what gives the strength to leave a violent relationship, and that is why we in the SF are pleased that with this bill we are expanding and strengthening the efforts of women in crisis centres, and we think it is very good that women without children are also now being given the opportunity for advice. Women who go to shelters often have many difficult experiences in their luggage. Many have experienced traumatic experiences with both physical and psychological violence. It is important that there is a place where you can come and get calm and stability, but it is also important that you get help on how to move on with your life. The proposal gives all women in crisis centres the right to initial advice on housing, the economy, the labour market, school, day care, health care, etc., and also provides coordinating advice when starting to be ready to move out of the shelters. This is a really important effort, because if you don't get help building something new, it can be difficult not to end up where you came from before you went to the shelter. Another element of the bill is to ensure that the municipalities are informed when women move out to the shelter again to build a new everyday life. This is important because it gives municipalities much better opportunity to support both women and their children. There has been criticism of the fact that the draft law has gender implications because there is a lack of offers for victims of violence. It is estimated that around 29 000 women are exposed annually to physical partner violence, where the figure for men is 10,000, and it is important that proper support is also provided for this considerable group of battered men, and this is certainly a matter that we would also like to give priority to. But this proposal that we have here is about women in the country's women's crisis centres, and from the SF we are happy to support it because it is so much a helping hand that these very vulnerable women need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110406	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110419	The Enhedslisten, of course, also supports this proposal, which extends the group of women affected by violence who can get help and advice as they need. I would like to mention some issues that we should discuss further after this bill, because I also believe that everyone can agree that the problems have not been resolved by this bill. One of the issues that is problematic is that today, when women with children can get advice, I also agree that it is a little crazy that this dividing line has been created in the past, it does not always work in practice. There is really no advice for those women who should get it. Of course, we do not solve that problem by simply writing in the law that there are now more people who should have that advice. In addition, several consultation parties also address the question of who should have the advisory obligation and whether the death and torment should be the municipality that advises those women who are in a very vulnerable position when they have been affected by violence. We in the Enhedslist think this should be considered. There may therefore also be situations in which advice with a positive effect might be provided by a third party who has a prior knowledge of the woman affected by the violence. It could also be the shelters. Although we have a great deal of understanding for the Ministry's argument that the municipal caseworker can provide holistic help and we very much agree that it weighs heavily there are therefore also situations where, for example, there are situations in which, for example, there is a large number of cases in which there is a large number of cases. A major burden on the social workers in the municipality will speak against it if, for example, there is no need to do so. At the same time, a person who has dealt with the problem of women and who has helped her in this regard. Then I would like to point out that the need for advice on behalf of women affected by violence continues for a long time after a woman has moved from a shelter and has established herself in a new home. It is here, when you have to stand on your own feet and have been through something very, very violent, that there really is a risk of falling back into a violent relationship, a violent relationship. That is why women affected by violence should have the right to be protected so that they are not left entirely alone when the acute crisis has resolved. With these words, of course, this is an important step and, as several have pointed out, it is a little strange that it has been the case in the past that women who did not have a child with them at a shelter could not get advice, so this is important. We in the Enhedslisten would like to ask the Minister some questions about how we can, in practice, improve the advice that is already there and try to start that debate, but of course we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110740	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110748	The draft law is presented in the context of the implementation of the 2015 Rate Pool Agreement. There is agreement among the pool parties to allocate funds to the extension and strengthening of the advisory system in the Services Act, so that this includes not only women with children but also women without children. At the same time, there is agreement to introduce a duty of orientation for women's crisis centres, welfare homes and shelters, where, of course, anonymity must be ensured. The Liberal Alliance can support the proposal and, at the same time, I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support L 138.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110833	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227110845	Thank you. It'll be quick. Once again, I would like to thank you for the comments that have been made and for the good debate as well. Violence in close relations is, to such an extent, a serious problem which we all take very, very seriously. The women we are talking about in this case, who are subjected to violence, are also in a very vulnerable situation. Of course, they need help to create a life free from violence, and it is also absolutely right, as Mrs Karin Nødgaard from the Danish People's Party says: You cannot just turn off what you can for a television. This is a problem which is there and which they have to deal with, and that is why, of course, it is also pleasing, in spite of the amazement that has occurred among many rapporteurs, and which I myself also share, that we are taking due care to correct precisely the imbalance that has occurred. In view of this, of course, I am also very pleased that the draft law extends and strengthens the efforts offered to women who are staying at shelters. With the bill, as several speakers have said, we provide women with a better basis for creating a life free from violence. In this way, we are also in favour of reducing the proportion of women who, through life, need more stays in shelters. At the same time, the draft law proposes that women's crisis centres and, in particular, the welfare homes should be given a right of orientation. As a number of speakers have said, the obligation to provide information must help to ensure that local authorities are made aware of citizens staying in a shelter or a welfare centre so that they can offer as soon as possible what, I believe, has also been lacking in implementation: the aid and support needed to enable the individual to move forward in his life with a much more stable life. I look forward again to the committee reading and I will, of course, answer any questions that the committee may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227111101	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150227111118	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 10 March 2015, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
