ParlaMint-DK_20150217130003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130019	We all feel great anger and grief about the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen this weekend, when two people were murdered and five police officers injured. We all have deep sympathy for those who have personally been struck by the impact of the powder keg and by the synagogue, and with their relatives, their companions, their friends, but we have all been struck by what happened in our country. The heart bleeds when peaceful citizens are killed for their use of freedom of expression or for their belonging to Jewish society. In the last few days, and not least at the mighty public meetings last night, we have manifested, across religious and political attitudes, our determination to stand together and do everything possible to prevent new attacks on our popular community. A few terrorists will not succeed in a struggle between the world's religions. Terror strikes the world over innocent and innocent people in all beliefs. In fact, most victims of terrorist attacks are peaceful people with Islamic faith. Unfortunately, we knew that Denmark was at risk of being hit, as it was among other things. happened in London and Madrid and most recently in Paris. Fortunately, good intelligence and police cooperation across borders have prevented many tragedies since 11 September 2001. But at the weekend we were hit in the heart of Copenhagen too. I think we are all terrified that a rootless criminal has apparently been inspired by the barbarity of IS and al-Qaeda and has set out to imitate the horrors of Paris here in Copenhagen last month. We all feel the greatest admiration both for the swift and courageous response of the police and intelligence services to the specific attacks and for the rapid detection of the perpetrator. Let us remember with one minute's silence the victims of this weekend's terror in Copenhagen and confirm our common will to stand shoulder to shoulder in defending our democracy and our freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130420	Today there are the following reviews: Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 73 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on adult certificates for persons working with the handicapped). Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 74 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the conclusion of agreements intended to contribute to the effective execution of the country of origin's service and to closer cooperation in the field of investigation and crime prevention). Jane Heitmann (V) and Hans Andersen (V): Request no. F 22 (What can the Ministers say about the government's efforts and initiatives to maintain people with depression and other mental disorders in the labour market?). Uffe Elbæk (UFG): Request no. F 23 (How will Denmark in the future deal politically with issues of participation at major sporting events, where the host country often uses the international sporting event to strengthen its reputation in the world at the expense of human rights?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing, Doris Jakobsen, who has been on leave, I have been informed that from 12 February 2015 she will be able to rejoin the Parliament. Nick Nielsen's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130538	The matter entered as item 7 on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130549	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130610	Are there any objections to the promotion of this question? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130631	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 22 by Søren Espersen (DF), Claus Hjort Frederiksen (V), Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Helle Løvgreen Mølvig (RV), Villum Christensen (LA), Per Stig Møller (KF) and Nick Nielsen (SIU), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 97 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF) voted against 19 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V-22 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 23 by Annette Vilhelmsen (SF), Finn Sørensen (EL), Johan Lund Olsen (IA) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130739	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130809	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130827	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130843	Does anyone wish to speak? This is what Mrs Anni Matthiesen, as rapporteur for the Left, is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217130859	L 94, which we are dealing with here today, is a draft law tabled by the Minister for the Environment, and a draft law which, even after a great many questions and many answers and after several consultations in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, still leaves a great many people in uncertainty. The bill takes thousands of acres of usable farmland out of ordinary operation, and the consequences for farmers are a bill in the million class due to lost land value in addition to impaired creditworthiness, interest rate increases in the bank and forced change in their production. How many people will have the opportunity to continue in their profession with these changes in their production? Many farmers are bound by this bill. They will have difficulty selling the farm, they will not be able to make a generational change, nor will they be able to get an economy in the production that they might otherwise have been working with for many, many years. The bill for this bill therefore ends with the Danish farmers. We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have had the presence of several rural associations, of several different farmers, and I have been looking to see for myself how these changes to section 3 areas will affect farmers around the country. The government estimates in the bill that farmers' losses will be around 47 million. I have to say, however, that I think it may have been forgotten to include the loss of value that is happening on the ground. I can tell you that only those farmers who have appeared before the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy speak of each of them having a loss of value of between 3 and 4 million. kr. on their property. When the Minister for the Environment says that these farmers will have three seasons to convert their production into, I would stress that it would be a very good idea if the Minister for the Environment went out and talked to some of these farmers who are affected by the bill here. The draft law already affects the possibility for farmers to be able to renew the bank credit; even now, while we are standing or sitting in this Chamber discussing things, their ability, when they go to the bank and have renewed the bank credit, to have it renewed, or, for that matter, to take on new loans in the future. Finally, I would like to stress that the Left would like to see the nature that we all want to take care of across the parties as well. But we have to say that we are surprised that the government chooses to take exactly 10%. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. That is why the Left cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131229	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131240	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 1-9, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131254	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131313	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (LA) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 14 (EL and LA), against 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2 submitted and acceded by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 3 and 4 were accepted by the committee, or by Amendment No. 5, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 by a majority (V, EL, SF, LA and KF) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 58 (V, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 54 (S, DF and RV), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. I propose that the bill should then go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131509	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131526	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by another minority (SF and EL) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote on 29 (DF, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 80 (V, S, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on Amendment No 17. 3 of a minority (DF), joined by another minority (EL), and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 22 (DF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 90 (V, S, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (EL), lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131654	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131710	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131830	I guess if a few conversations are dimmed, we can start the first reading of the bill. The debate is open. Sir. Mads Rørvig as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217131852	Thank you. Today we're going to treat L 123. It is a draft law amending the VAT law. The first part of the bill is about changing import VAT on Danish-language magazines. It is proposed to introduce import VAT on all Danish-language magazines, magazines or the like in Danish, which are sent to Denmark from outside the EU. Non-Danish-language magazines whose value does not exceed 80 DKK will still be exempt from VAT if printed outside the EU's borders. According to the Minister for Taxation, the proposal is estimated to generate an additional revenue of 40 million. kr. annual after retreat and behavior. The aim of this part of the draft law is to eliminate distortions of competition between companies within and outside the European Union. The second part of the bill is about changes to the billing obligation. It is proposed to relax the invoicing obligation so that there is greater scope for derogating from the VAT Act's requirement for invoicing. Following this, it is proposed to provide for exemption from the invoicing obligation for sales to non-taxable persons for companies covered by the Mini One Stop Shop scheme. The aim of this is to reduce administrative requirements for companies and not to force companies to issue invoices in cases where practical circumstances contradict it. In relation to the first element of the draft law, we in the Left have great sympathy for the proposal. This will bring a greater degree of equality between Danish printing works and foreign printing works located outside the EU. We have seen a tendency for the production of Danish-language magazines to move abroad. It can be said that it is not low-wage countries that send it, but it is mainly Norway and Switzerland that are just outside the European Union. It illustrates very well what issue we are talking about, namely that we are not moving production out of Denmark because we are not competitive, but solely because of a rule on VAT. The best example to illustrate this is the magazine Illustrated Science, which most people know. The Danish version of the magazine is printed in Norway, but the Norwegian version of Illustrated Science is printed in Denmark. It illustrates very well the problem we are dealing with here. There are, of course, arguments for and against, and this is not an easy matter to resolve, but we in the Left can support the model proposed by the tax minister. However, we would also like to have an influence on how to use the proceeds which this bill naturally brings, and we look forward to discussing this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132204	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Astrid Krag as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132210	The proposal we are discussing here today has a long history, even longer than my time here at Tinge. It has been the case for many years that publishers of magazines have been able to make use of the VAT rules in such a way that they have actually been able to avoid paying VAT on magazines sent to Danish subscribers from outside the EU. It can be said that today our VAT rules are such that we indirectly and not of our own active will support printing companies outside not just Denmark but outside the European Union. The VAT advantage it gives, the VAT gap there is, graphic companies in Denmark cannot compete with. This leads to totally unfair competition in the printing industry, which has already cost good Danish and European jobs. Back in 2004, the previous government tried to put an end to this abuse of VAT rules. Unfortunately, what was done at the time was not enough, and with the proposal we are now debating, the government wants to put an end to the abuse of VAT rules and the unfair competition that the graphics industry has experienced since. This is therefore the reason why the bill is targeted at Danish magazine publishers who are trying to avoid payment of VAT by moving their printing activities outside the EU. We propose to place import VAT on Danish-language magazines and the like that are sent to Denmark from outside the EU, whether the recipient is a private person or a business customer. It should not be a matter for the VAT rules to determine whether a company has its Danish-language magazines printed inside or outside the EU. Does this mean that it will be extremely expensive in fees for the individual subscriber to receive his magazine? This is an issue which I can see has been raised in the discussion. And I would say that it is expected that the vast majority of Danish-language magazines, which continue to be printed outside the EU, will be sent to Denmark in total shipments and therefore also imported together, and they will therefore only be charged one fee by Post Danmark. The proposal also envisages that foreign companies that are part of the Mini One Stop Shop scheme may be exempted from the invoicing obligation, and that is precisely in order to maintain the administrative relief it must be for companies to use the Mini One Stop Shop scheme. Overall, the proposal will help to increase turnover and provide more graphic jobs in Denmark and in the EU, because the unfair and otherwise unintended competitive advantage that printing companies outside the EU have today will be eliminated. At the same time, the proposal helps to lighten administrative burdens, which is why the Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132448	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132453	Mrs Astrid Krag says, like the government too, that if, for example, there are a consignment of magazines of 1,000 pieces is sent. to Denmark from abroad, they will only have to share an import fee of DKK 160. But the industry reports that this is not the case because subscriptions to magazines have been sold on different terms. Some have purchased a 6-month subscription at a price x, while others have purchased a 3-month subscription at a price y. And actually, you can't do this here without doing an individual treatment of each shipment to each subscriber. What does Mrs Astrid Krag say about that objection from the industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132546	When I say that it will not be very expensive in fees for the individual subscriber, because you can handle it here in the Post Danmark framework, it is because that is my impression. If sir... Ole Birk Olesen has a different impression and the industry says otherwise, but then it will be appropriate to have it clarified further during the committee procedure so that we can reassure some of those who may be insecure. Well, I've also heard some abnormal stories about how to get out and break the letter secret and hire an army of people to sit and judge whether anything is written in one language or another. I have been reassured by the professional assessments I have heard, and I think Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will be able to stay in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132624	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132626	However, Mrs Astrid Krag may admit that there is a difference in VAT on a subscription lasting 3 months compared to a subscription lasting 6 months because there is a difference in price. And so there are so many individual agreements with customers that will make the 160 DKK. must be charged many times. Should I understand Mrs Astrid Krag as saying that if Mrs Astrid Krag finds out at committee reading that what the industry is saying is actually correct, she does not support the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132703	I'm not quite sure I fully understand the thought example, sir. Ole Birk Olesen comes along, which is why it is also very good that we can get it clarified during the committee procedure, but on the bottom line it says that right now we have an unfair competitive advantage that has never been intended and that not only sends jobs out of Denmark, but out of the EU because there is a VAT gap that we only got partially closed in 2004; we are going to close it completely now. That's what's on the bottom line. It has never been intended that this is how the VAT rules should be applied in relation to the printing of magazines. That is what is on the bottom line, and then we have to look at the more low-practical things in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132735	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132740	Thank you. Mrs Astrid Krag says that this proposal guarantees more equal competition. Then I would like to know whether Mrs Astrid Krag is not helping to create some other imbalances in competition, because only the Danish-speaking people will get a tax, and not the magazines that come in English, German, Arabic or Swedish or any language that can now be imagined. Does it not create unfair competition that only Danish-languages are now being imported, and all other languages are being freed from VAT? Can Mrs Astrid Krag reveal why import VAT is not applied in all languages instead of just in the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132819	It is based on a basic assessment that Danish-language magazines do not operate in the same market as non-Danish-language magazines. Danish-language magazines are more targeted at the Danish market, and magazines in foreign languages typically have a larger and different market. That is the reason for that demarcation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132838	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132841	I do not entirely agree with that conclusion. There are many of us who can read Danish and read English and read other languages, and if you can now get it much cheaper in a foreign language, I think there are a number of Danes who will choose it. There is, however, the problem that typically the older generation, which may not be multilingual, has to pay more money than other Danes. I certainly do not think that is fair, nor is it a fair competitive situation for Danish magazines that they should be hit harder in terms of VAT than foreign magazines should. I would also like to hear about the problems of demarcation. Who will check whether it is Danish or, for example, Danish? English? I understand that the bill says it is 50%. of the magazine, which is to be in Danish, but should Post Danmark then open each magazine and check if it is in Danish? Or what, if the cover is in English, do you have to assume it's English, or do you still have to check out? Or if it's inside an envelope, can Post Danmark open the envelope? This opens up a holocaust of control. How can you even check that it is a Danish-language magazine that is being sent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217132942	First to all these very specific questions about how to deal with this in practice. I think we shall have some answers in the committee's work. It is actually possible to deal with things as they are today, and I am quite sure that in future we will also be able to do so without breaking the letter secret and what else we can hear from very imaginative concerns about this. Then I would say that it is a prerequisite that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party puts in that if you can get it a lot cheaper in other languages, then something happens with the Danish language. The rapporteur of the Left was so cool that he actually had the Norwegian version of Illustrated Science with him here. Now I just have to point out that it has been on the platform to say that the Danish printing works are fully competitive. When the Norwegian version of Illustrated Science is printed here in Denmark, it tells us something about us being competitive, and this fear that it will cause prices to rise if we get the printing of those magazines home, I do not share, but it must be clarified further in the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133039	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133046	Here we are discussing a bill which is about introducing a language tax in the Danish language. Specifically, it is about the introduction of import VAT on Danish-language magazines, magazines and the like, but not in English-language, German-language or Swedish-language magazines or magazines in other languages, no, only in Danish-language magazines. And we in the Danish People's Party think this is a really bad solution. The reason for the proposal or the problem, if I can call it that, is that today there is a negative competitive position for Danish printing works because magazines printed in Denmark are subject to VAT, while magazines printed outside the EU, which are sent to Denmark, are not subject to VAT if they have a value of less than DKK 80. In the Danish People's Party, we fully agree that there is the problem that puts Danish printing works in a bad competitive situation, which also emerged when legal proceedings took place in 2004 and 2012. We simply think that it is a really bad solution that only the Danish language should be subject to VAT. We think that we should look for ways of finding other solutions that were more evenly distributed in terms of competition, so that it is not only the Danish language that is affected by this. I would like to say that I think the government's solution opens up a number of issues and thus also issues which we will be able to clarify in committee if that is what it takes to get an answer to them. For why is it only Danish-language magazines and magazines, why not all other languages? I hope, then, that the Minister can perhaps confirm that there will still be a so-called VAT hole, as Mrs Astrid Krag said, in that it is only for Danish-language magazines that the problem is solved here, but not for magazines in all other languages. I would also like to question whether this is at all a VAT gap. In other words, when we close gaps fiscally or VATly, this is typical because we have inappropriately less revenue than we expected. Then you close the hole. So you don't get any more revenue in the Treasury. That's what you do with this proposal. That's where you're supposed to get 50 million. kr. That's all in the box, and it's not like it's a tax hole. That may well be a problem we have to resolve, but I do not think we can call it a VAT gap. Another thing that I think is a huge problem with this proposal is the delimitation difficulties, for how much should be done, for example. be in Swedish, so that no VAT is charged? Yeah, the bill says 50 percent. of the text must be Danish in order for it to be Danish, but who should control it? I mean, if a magazine, for example. Sent in an envelope, should you open the envelope to check it out? No, you can't do that because of the letter secret. Or what if there is a front page in English, one should assume that it is an English magazine, or must Post Danmark open and browse through the magazines to find out which languages are then inside, also to check if it approaches the 50%.? I think this opens up a series of circumvention options that make this bill really, really bad. Should Post Denmark e.g. be able to identify that the magazine in question is the Danish language based on an assessment of the envelope of the shipment, or how should it be dealt with? One might also ask the tax minister how many extra employees, for example. Post Danmark or SKAT must hire to make this check to find out if it is now a Danish-language magazine that is subject to VAT or if it is a Swedish or Greenlandic magazine that is not subject to VAT. So I think there are a lot of delimitation problems that are worth addressing in committee. The employment impact of this bill has also been called into question, as in several of the consultation responses, and I have noticed that 14 out of 15 are negative in relation to this one, among others. Says that there's a high probability that this is going to give a negative employment effect. This is among other things. based on some calculations made by Copenhagen Economics and where they have estimated that it will cost between 143 and 218 jobs. 3F Post estimates that it will cost only 100 jobs at the distribution stage, and no one has at present immediately made it probable in the bill that it would provide more jobs in the printing industry. So that is also something I think we should do more in committee. Then I have to say that the purpose of this bill is to create more equal competition, to close a so-called VAT gap. But this proposal does not create a level playing field. VAT is added only to Danish-language magazines, but not to English-, German-, Swedish- or Arabic-language magazines or other. So there will still be a so-called VAT gap for those languages. In most cases the Danish-language magazine would in fact already be more expensive than comparable non-Danish-language magazines, because there is typically a smaller market because we are a smaller country, a smaller language. So, in fact, you just want to increase the competition gap, and I think that is really bad. I think it is a really bad idea to make it so that people who read foreign languages now get away with cheaper tax than you do if you read Danish. In conclusion, I would like to say once again that the Danish People's Party recognises the problem that exists by the fact that the printing works are today at a competitive disadvantage. However, I think this is a bad solution to the problem, and we would therefore appeal to the tax minister to call the parties now so that we can have the drilled out, if there are any other solutions that could be better than this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133628	A brief remark from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133632	First of all, I would like to acknowledge what must be the invention of a new language flower in the Danish language, namely the concept of a language tax. So, can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party tell me that there is speculation in this when it is non-Danish-language magazines? The point is that we can see that it is precisely speculating on using this VAT hole to bypass VAT in relation to the Danish-language magazines. What the rapporteur of the Left mentioned in relation to Illustrated Science, where the Norwegian version is printed in Denmark because we are competitive, proves it very well. Is there any justification for the otherwise very exciting linguistic innovation of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party when he talks about a language tax in the Danish language? I simply do not see it in the proposal here. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: how will this be approached by the Danish People's Party if you actually mean what you say, so that you can see the problem, and it is not the idea that someone should be able to circumvent VAT legislation in this way? Does the Danish People's Party have any idea? Or has all the gunpowder been used to find places where you can problematize how this can work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133738	As I hear the long question, there are two things in it. One is whether we actually recognise that this is a problem and that someone can speculate on it, and the other is what you can do instead. And yes, I have actually said it twice, both at the beginning of my speech and at the end of my speech, that we recognise that this is a problem. In fact, I have appealed to previous tax ministers, both Holger K. Nielsen and Morten Østergaard, when he was the tax minister, and now it is changing a bit, and of course the current tax minister cannot do that in order to get the parties called to find a solution to this. One has not chosen I would just quietly say that I think that a language tax or a VAT alone on the Danish-language magazines is a super bad idea. If we were finally to do something, we would have to put it all on, that is to say on magazines in all languages, or find another solution if it were to protect the industry, it could be through the Finance Act, it could be cultural policy. One could, for example: mention that you put the corresponding Danish magazine into a newspaper, then it is without VAT, and you buy it in a kiosk or get it via subscription, yes, then it is with VAT. So there will still be some competitive situations that will not be solved with this, but there the Minister could call a meeting on it and then we could try and see if we could find a common solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133846	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133849	The latter is certainly not a quite correct reflection of what the tax rules are like. You can't just take a magazine and stuff into a newspaper and get rid of VAT like that. However, we may also need a technical review in committee of what the tax rules really are now. I just wanted to say that it's always nice to have coffee with Mr. Simpson. Dennis Flydtkjær is not at all that, and I am sure that the Minister also thinks that it is interesting to hear what concrete solutions the Danish People's Party sees instead. And thank you for recognising that this is a problem, a problem that the Danish People's Party has also called for a solution to. But if this solution does not work according to the Danish People's Party, it would be really nice if we could hear over a cup of coffee what it was then that the Danish People's Party would take to such a meeting with the Minister. I haven't heard anything concrete yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217133934	You can do it in several different ways, and I would very much like to have a cup of coffee with Mrs Astrid Krag and the Minister of Taxation, where we can have bored out what is up and down in it and the possibilities in it. After all, this is about protecting one's own production in the printing industry, and you can do this in a number of ways to regulate one's way out of it, among other things. through EU customs rules, where you can wait for the EU to come up with a solution. You can create business support schemes. You can try to see if there are any solutions to the budget law and do as you do with, for example, the budget. support for newspapers and other things, but it could also be that VAT was put in all languages and not only in Danish and thus solves the whole problem. There is therefore a whole range of other options that can be taken instead of simply saying that it must now be the Danish language that needs to be tightened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134019	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134032	Thank you. I was supposed to start with my speech, but I actually think I will sign up to the Danish People's Party's tax rapporteur, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, to also stand up here and make some suggestions about what to do. Then I have allowed myself to think a little further, and there I think that if you now ban English in educational establishments and ban English in written language, it might be that you got beyond that problem. I do not think the rapporteur is listening, but it was meant with a glimpse in the eye. It can be said that this is primarily a question of putting the competition conditions of publishers of magazines on an equal footing. Actually, that's what this is about. Then you can always discuss whether we are going to a perfect solution or not, and it is fine to take that debate, but I think we are going in and dealing with a problem, and the problem is that publishers of magazines have been able to exploit and have also formally exploited a small limit in the VAT rules and thus avoided paying VAT on magazines sent to Danish subscribers. So I do not subscribe to the claim that this proposal affects Danish-language magazines precisely because we go in and close that gap, and I do not think we will see any major change in behaviour, because this is aimed at Danish-language magazines. As the VAT rules are now, we are actually granting subsidies to printing companies outside the European Union, and we must also note that the graphic industry in Denmark cannot compete with that VAT advantage and that costs jobs. So if there are some technical things, if there are some things that we are going to discuss, we are happy to do so in committee, but I think that this is an issue that has been going on for so many years, as long as I have been a tax rapporteur, but also many years before that, that we need to harmonise the rules so that we equate the conditions of competition. With these words, the Radical Left can see that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134307	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134312	I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Nadeem Farooq, if he seriously thinks that you equate magazines. There may be a magazine about horses, where you are charged VAT, if it is a magazine about horses in Danish, but if you order a magazine about horses in English, there is no VAT on them. How can you say it's equalizing magazines?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134335	This is as close to equality as we can get, precisely because we have the challenge of the VAT gap being exploited. There I think it is particularly the challenge of Danish-language magazines that we are aiming at now. I do not imagine that this will lead to a change in purchasing behaviour on a large scale, which will affect Danish-language magazines. I do not really believe that the tax rapporteur himself does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134407	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134410	It is a rather remarkable rhetoric to say that one is as close to an equality in terms of competition as one can get. But you're as far away as you can get, aren't you? One has no VAT and the other has full VAT. I really do not see the logic of how it should be equal to competition when one gets full VAT and the other does not for any VAT. Could it not be imagined that if there was a horse-interested girl out there who could speak English, she would choose the English-language magazine instead of the Danish-language magazine and that this would cost Danish jobs? Isn't this a problem that the government should take a little more seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134446	Here I take the view that it is the Treasury's assessment that there will be only a very limited change in purchasing behaviour towards English-language magazines.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134459	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134503	It can of course be said that there is an equality of magazines in relation to the application of VAT, regardless of whether they are sent from abroad or from Denmark. On the other hand, I'd like to know if Mr. Nadeem Farooq can admit that the ideal situation is that magazines are printed in the country where you are best at printing magazines, and if it is in Norway, that is where they should be printed, and then sent to Denmark, and then Denmark must do something else that we are good at, and send it to Norway. Will Mr. Nadeem Farooq recognizes that there is an extra bureaucracy associated with this VAT application and customs clearance of magazines when they come from abroad, as magazines printed in Denmark, are not charged with a customs fee and that it can be a customs fee imposed several times and not just once in a single month edition because there are different subscriptions etc. etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134617	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134620	So, in order to be equal in one area, there will be a new imbalance in another area, Mr President, because of the fact that we have not been able to find a solution to this problem. Nadeem Farooq's side recognises that there is a greater degree of bureaucracy, customs, fees, etc. magazines if the solution to have them printed abroad is chosen. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134646	I would say that the fact that we are getting as close to equality as possible, now that we have the VAT rules that we have, means that we are also paying a price for that equality. But overall, it makes sense to do so, including socio-economic ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134704	Thank you to the radical rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134725	Today we are discussing a bill which we have been looking forward to for a long time from the SF on an amendment to the VAT law, namely on the introduction of import VAT on Danish-language magazines, magazines and the like, and on the authorisation to relax the invoicing obligation in order to derogate from the general VAT law requirement for invoicing obligations, as well as exemption from the invoicing obligation for companies covered by this new Mini One Stop Shop scheme. The reason why the SF has been looking forward to the bill is, as has also been said by several of my colleagues up here, that we had had an unintended situation due to the change that took place in 2004 in Danish printing activities, in the form that the printing of magazines was to some extent flagged out to countries outside the EU because there was an economic advantage in it. That was not the intention, and that concern was also addressed in 2004. That is why we are pleased that we are now finding a system so that Danish printing works should not be exposed to unfair competition, in that it is better under the present system to pay for printing, for example. Norway, despite what the rapporteur of the Left also showed from up here, that it is better for Norwegians to be printed in Denmark. It is a strange situation to be in that it is economically more advantageous to print in Denmark, but that because of our VAT rules we ourselves get printed abroad. In relation to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, namely that this was a tax in the Danish language, I would say that the situation we have now is an injustice and a tax on Danish jobs, one can say, because there are Danish jobs that have already disappeared because of the current situation. Therefore, it is good that we get it right so that we can continue to have jobs in the printing industry and in the printing industry in Denmark. So all in all, the SF supports this proposal. We think it is very good both because of the Danish jobs that are in it, but also because of the fairness that lies in the fact that we are now getting more organized conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134945	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217134949	I just want to ask the SF's rapporteur how many jobs there are in this proposal, when you include both the printing industry and the publishing industry... or what you call it... because if you look at the consultation answers, you can see that at least a strong doubt has been raised as to whether this does not lead to negative employment in Denmark. So I just want to hear what SF's impression is about the employment impact of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135016	I cannot say that precisely, but we have certainly listened to the many meetings of the industry, which I am also sure the DF's rapporteur has participated in, that it has already cost jobs. And it goes without saying that if it is better to have Illustrated Science in Norway printed in Denmark, i.e. if it is better worth it, but that it is not worth it because of the current rules to print Danish-language magazines in Denmark, then it costs jobs. I also think, and now DF's rapporteur is not dumber, he is actually a very intelligent man, that you always have to show some kind of source criticism and look at who has certain interests in maintaining the status quo. And it is clear that if you are a publisher, you want to get rid of VAT. There is nothing strange about that in itself, that is to say, that you want to pay as little costs as possible. We do not think that is fair, nor do I understand that the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party does not think that it is right for us to do what we can to maintain some fairness and protect Danish jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135118	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135122	As I said, when I was on the platform myself, I am, in fact, involved in the issue, but I am asking critically about SF's reason for supporting this proposal, which alone is that it has a positive employment effect. Then I just ask if you have that figure for the total effect, and I understand that you can't answer that. I do not see it immediately in the draft law either, but I can then see from at least part of the 15 consultation answers, where the 14 are critical of this proposal, that they are almost all counting on it having a negative then it's just that I think SF's reason to support this bad solution falls a little apart. Although we agree to recognise the problem, it is not certain that this solution is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135204	I do not see that it would be negative for a whole industry to eliminate a really bad model, which was not drawn up on purpose. After all, in 2004 we were already aware of the problems that could be involved in this; this was discussed at the time. There are now printing works which, for example, print at higher cost. Norway and Switzerland, that is, elsewhere. These are not low-wage countries. They are printing in high-wage countries, but at lower costs, because we have put ourselves in a situation that we did not want to be in, but which we can now change where, because of the VAT rules, we could print cheaper in these countries, even if the costs were higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135253	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135309	This is a proposal that Enhedslisten has been working for for quite a long time. I can say that I have raised several times with successive tax ministers the question of when we, like us, got started on this and got it implemented. And we are pleased that there is now a proposal that we can take a position on. We can support it from the very general point of view that we want to close the VAT gap that is obvious. It cannot be the case that a production is placed in a place to exploit a gap in tax legislation, in VAT legislation, nor do we think that things should be put in tax havens just because it is best for those who produce that thing. So it is quite simple: it is a VAT gap that must be closed and we support it. Then it has been debated whether it has any effect on employment. There is little doubt about that. I have heard that one of the printing works in Norway today will move to Denmark because they already have good experience of printing things in Denmark. I don't know if that's true, but it's one of those rumors you can hear on the water pipes. So I have no doubt that it means more employment in Denmark. How much? is then asked. There we have seen that in the Graphic Employers' Association and now it is not always that Enhedslisten supports the employers' calculations that hundreds of jobs were lost when the VAT gap was created. That is why we have to assume that when the hole is closed, there will be a good number of jobs the other way. Then there is a third factor which I have not heard any mention yet, and that is that it also gives a CO2 because it is quite foolish to print a magazine intended for the Danish market in Switzerland. It's a little less foolish to do it in Norway, but in both cases it's at least a CO2 so I think there are three good reasons to support this proposal, and Enhedslisten does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135515	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217135525	The purpose of this bill is to solve a problem for the graphic employers in Denmark, which is as follows: When they print magazines in Denmark for emissary to Danish customers, the magazines are subject to VAT, but if the same magazines are printed abroad and sent to Danish customers, they are not subject to VAT. And it is a challenge for Danish graphical employers to compete with foreign graphical employers who can print favorably because of VAT legislation. So the problem is real enough and we agree that there is a problem. Then the question is whether the solution is a good one about the solution you have come up with may even be so bad that it creates more problems than the problem you want to solve. We believe that the proposal before us creates more problems than it solves. It creates the problem that a tax is imposed on Danish language. And regardless of the fact that the Treasury says that people in Denmark will not switch to other languages to any significant extent, we allow ourselves to question that claim from the Treasury. The Danes are increasingly • for every vintage that is born and grown up and can read magazines better and better at reading e.g. English. My generation is better than my parents' generation to read English, and my children's generation will probably be better than me to read English. Therefore, to a lesser extent, it would be a problem for the Danes simply to order a magazine in English, if it is already a little cheaper to buy from a large English production of an international journal than to buy from a smaller Danish production of an international journal. And if there is even VAT on the Danish version, but not in the English version, you can also buy the English one. We do not think this is appropriate in a world in which we want to preserve Danish as a language, as a peculiarity for Denmark and certainly not hinder the Danes from retaining their own language. Then there is the fact that there will be an import fee on the magazines when they are sent from abroad and have to be cleared and paid VAT, of DKK 160. On this point, the Ministry says that it will only be imposed once in one edition, a monthly edition, for example. But the industry says it's not like that. This is different, says the industry, for each edition has been sent out in different types of subscriptions, and each type of subscription has to be cleared independently because there are different VAT amounts. Each time a fee of DKK 160 must be added, and in principle one can imagine that this fee should be charged to every magazine, says the industry. Then there is the third problem: a massive control effort must be made, letters opened and checked whether the magazine is formulated in Danish or whether it is formulated on e.g. English or possibly Norwegian, which is very similar to Danish. And what proportion of the text in the magazine is then in Danish, and what share is in foreign? A clearing question that the Minister may be able to answer when he comes up here is: If you print one page with a very dense text in English with very small types, just like that in the back of a place, so that text in words and letters constitutes a larger share of the written communication in the magazine than the remaining Danish, which is printed quite normally, would that mean that you should be charged the Danish VAT? Alternatively, one could enter into a discussion on whether magazines in Denmark should be subject to VAT at all. In the past, magazine-like production, which comes from newspapers, is not subject to VAT. So it could be that one should make an equality and say that journalistic production, whether it comes in the form of newspapers, which do magazine-like things, or whether it comes in the form of magazines on a monthly or weekly basis, just had to be exempt from VAT at all. I do not have the funding for that for today, but it might be worth considering whether it could be found. We don't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217140049	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217140056	As a starting point, the Conservative People's Party is always sceptical about proposals that drive more money into corporate taxes, regardless of how they are classified. In this case, however, we think that it might be sensible not to have the molbo-like approach to tax financing, that it is worthwhile for Danish companies to produce exactly the same printed matter in Norway or Switzerland or other countries outside the EU and to avoid paying VAT instead of in Denmark when we have well-functioning and efficient printing works Denmark. And those printing works supply products to the countries concerned. After all, it seems rather shaky, and it also seems rather strange that the legislation has been designed in this way. That is why it makes sense to talk about how we could organise the VAT system in such a way that there was equality of printed matter produced in countries outside the EU with printed matter produced in Denmark, for example. So, as a starting point, we think that what has been proposed here is sensible. There are also some challenges. Some of the rapporteurs, including LA's rapporteur, also mentioned this, namely the definition of the language of the magazines. What does this mean for the Danishness in some of the magazines that are? For we are also interested in the Danish language still being protected and maintained in relation to communication in magazines. This is one of the themes that we would very much like to discuss during committee reading, so how we ensure that there is still the same possibility that Danish-produced magazines are also in Danish in the future, so the prophecies we have heard about that will mean the closure of some magazines will not come true. Because we are certainly not interested in that. So we still think there are a lot of questions in this area. There are still a lot of things that you have to go into in depth to ensure that it becomes a balanced proposal that comes out of this, so that there will still be Danishness in the magazines that are offered to the Danes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217140311	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217140323	First of all, I would like to thank you for the good debate on this proposal. Many points of view have been raised, but I can hear that all rapporteurs agree on the basis of the identified problem, and then there are different approaches to the proposal put forward by the government. I have, of course, also heard the views on the issue, which we would like to see deepened in committee, and it is clear that, of course, I am making myself available to answer the questions that have been raised, some of which are quite technical in nature. Of course, we should be happy to help promote understanding of them, both in relation to the rapporteurs and the Committee on Taxation. For many years publishers of magazines have used a small limit in the VAT rules to avoid paying VAT on magazines sent to Danish subscribers and as the VAT rules are now, we provide indirect support for printing outside the EU, as several rapporteurs have indicated. The graphic industry in Denmark cannot compete with this VAT advantage and there is a risk that it costs and probably has already cost Danish jobs. The previous government tried to stop this abuse of VAT rules, but the solution adopted in 2004 did not prove sufficient to stem the distortion of competition created by VAT rules. What the government is now doing is picking up the attempts of the previous government to solve the challenge of circumventing VAT rules, and that is why we have put forward a proposal targeted at publishers who avoid VAT in Denmark by moving their printing activities outside the EU. Some of the questions that were raised during the course of the debate will, of course, try to answer them in the next reading of the committee. Of course. However, I would like to try to sketch out a few of the elements that have been asked about. I noted, among other things, that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen raised the issue of the treatment of import VAT. It was both in Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen's rapporteur's speech, and I think it was also in a question to Mrs Astrid Krag during her rapporteur's speech. It is of course essential, as the consultation note also points out, that it is possible to have the entire subscription edition introduced together, and if the possibility, which has been outlined, is taken into account, the import VAT can be declared and settled on the basis of the total cost of the magazines. In this way there is therefore no need for an individual VAT calculation and handling of each magazine. So a model has been outlined, and if you follow it as a publisher, you can settle for a total treatment, whether you send 100, 1,000 or 10,000 magazines into a chop. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen also raised a question which was perhaps of a more personal nature, namely how his children had to use magazines in foreign languages. Well, now I don't know Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen's children personally, but I'm sure they're very advanced, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also outlined it when it comes to English, for example. That is why I am quite sure that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's children, like many others, do not even request the magazines they read and use in paper form, but in electronic form. And as you will be aware, there is actually VAT on magazines that you subscribe to, for example on your iPad or computer. It is just to stress that the equality that we are proposing in this context is, of course, based on the fundamental principle that there is and there are people who naturally find it very interesting to subscribe to certain types of niche magazines. One issue that has also been raised in the debate is, of course, how market developments will be. There I would like to stress that it is therefore the Treasury's assessment that subscriptions to Danish-language magazines are only to a modest extent converted into subscriptions to non-Danish-language magazines. That is why we do not expect to see a significant impact on Danish-language magazines in this context either. What one might imagine, however, was that some of the magazines that have so far been published in Danish and have been produced in a non-EU country and sent to Denmark will in future be produced and printed in Denmark and distributed along that road. And if sir... Mads Rørvig's example may even be concluded that, at least in some cases, it will also be the case that the publishers will thereby achieve a saving in relation to the cost of production that will otherwise be. Of course, that must also be taken into account in this context. Questions have also been asked about what the relationship is about, in relation to how much of the editorial content of a magazine should be written in Danish and how much should be written in foreign. We should very much like to clarify this, but it is the 50 per cent limit that has been set up, and that is what we are discussing in the usual way. We would also very much like to be allowed to elaborate on that part of it in relation to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's question. I hope, of course, that the Folketing will generally support this proposal, so that the graphic industry in Denmark will have equal conditions of competition and publishers will not continue to wonder where they choose to print their magazines. I also understand that the second part of the proposal's content does not give rise to a great deal of debate in the House, and of course I take that as an expression of a broad consensus on it. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, as I said, I will, of course, endeavour to answer all the questions that may be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141043	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141047	When the tax minister turns his morning newspapers or tabloid newspapers through, does the tax minister sometimes come across the fact that much of the material brought in these newspapers looks like magazine material? There are food recipes, there are car reviews, there are accommodation supplements etc. Sometimes it is found on ordinary pages, but sometimes it has got its very own little add-on with colors on the front page, and it looks like a real magazine, maybe it can even be a bit glittery paper. Will the Minister of Taxation admit that it is then exempt from VAT because it is published by the newspapers while it is not exempt from VAT when similar material is published by publishers who make magazines? Could this problem be solved if one's drug was equally exempt from VAT, regardless of who the publishers were?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141151	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141154	I assume so, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen is not in favour of removing the VAT exemption from Danish newspapers, but Mr. Ole Birk Olesen himself explains. The removal of VAT in this area will not be possible under the EU's VAT directive, but it is clear that when I read my newspapers, I must also honestly admit that I notice that there is something that has a softer character. I usually skip it as irrelevant, I should like to say, so I do not have an overview of how much it amounts to. The rules, in relation to newspapers having a zero VAT rate, are an old rule which cannot be extended in relation to what is applicable, but it is also clear that there must be a clear link between the content in the newspaper and any additions that may be made. It is, of course, an individual assessment on a case-by-case basis, and I think that if it is the case that there is something that can be called into question in relation to this, it is of course necessary to do so in the individual cases. I think that even in the industry you are very aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141319	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141321	The tax minister said in his speech that a publisher can send the entire weekly or monthly edition into a pile and get it all VAT-treated and customs-treated once and only pay the 160 DKK. in fee for the entire edition. It is reported from the industry that because you have so many different subscription schemes, including discount schemes, which are carpentered individually, you cannot do so because each shipment with different prices agreed with the customer has to be dealt with differently. Does the Minister agree that this is what is happening in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141401	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141402	As I have said, the consultation note with the comments made by the Ministry also indicates a way to avoid having to deal with VAT several times. I am quite sure that if it is the case that some people in the industry want to go into more detail about how to do it, then of course you must finally turn to get it further. I have to say that I also assume that it must be the case that there will be some who do not need to do such a VAT treatment, as it might be that some chose instead of simply printing their magazines in Denmark or elsewhere within the European Union when this legislation is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141455	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141458	I would like to ask you about the delimitation problems that I can immediately see coming up with this bill. As the bill says, it has to be over 50 per cent. of the editorial text which must be in Danish, so that it is a Danish-language magazine and must therefore be subject to VAT. But can't the Secretary of State lift the veil on who's gonna control it? Is it SKAT that should be out at Post Danmarks center and that should control it, or is it Post Danmark itself who should control it, or who should carry out the control task? That was one question. The second question is: what if a magazine or journal is sent in an envelope, is it even possible to do that control, or can one then assume that one can so quietly send it without being charged VAT? Or what if you find out that this is a magazine where the front page is in English, do you have to open and check to see if it is now the Danish language inside? I think it opens up a barn gate for circumvention possibilities. I'm sure there's a lot of other options you can think of. I also have one final question: how many people should be employed in Post Denmark to do that check? And if it's SKAT that's going out and doing it, how many extra resources are going to be set aside to carry out this control?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141611	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141613	There are, of course, many questions that can be clarified, and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær of course also be very welcome to. But the starting point is, of course, that it is always the publisher's responsibility to comply with the rules that now exist. On questions of doubt, SKAT must assess whether the editorial content of a publication or the conditions relating to it is now also within the framework of the legislation. But, of course, that does not alter the very basic fact that a number of the issues that are being raised are also based, I think, on a rather curious premise that it should be imagined that the previous practice, which has been for printed magazines outside the European Union, continues unconditionally. One could imagine that a number of the administrative challenges that a part of the industry sees are simply eliminated by itself, because one chooses to print a magazine within the European Union and not outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141726	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141729	I agree in principle that, in the best of all worlds, all people would observe the rules we have adopted in here, but unfortunately that is not the truth. That is why there is a need for SKAT to have some supervisory tasks where they go out and check whether people pay the tax, VAT or tax they have to pay. Many times you see that they don't. Now I just imagine that there might be some who might have wanted to cheat on these VAT taxes too, and then it's just that I ask the tax minister: who should control it? Is it Post Denmark, is it SKAT? How many extra resources are being set aside or is something being set aside at all for this? And what if the magazine is sent in an envelope, is it even possible to control it? I think it is a little alarming that the relatively basic question of this draft law is not being answered at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141813	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141814	I must, however, contest the fact that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also puts it in that the practice that has been so far has been cheating. It hasn't. It has thus been the application of a de minimis limit which is unintentional. So you can't really define it as cheating. That does not change the fact that I would like to wait and see what developments will then be. It might well be that there is virtually nothing to control when this law comes into force, and I will of course wait for that in any case. But I would very much like to answer all Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's question, also in writing, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141858	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141917	The debate is open. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217141937	The proposal L 124 is part of the growth package that was agreed between the government, the Left, the Conservative and the SF back in June 2014, and with this bill we, on the part of the conciliation parties, would like to meet the wishes of the offshore industry in relation to achieving the same advantageous tax agreement as other parts of maritime Denmark. In the past, special ships such as watchships, wind turbines or ice-handling vessels were not linked to the tonnage tax law and were therefore exposed to disproportionate competition from similar vessels from other countries, which in the long run costs both jobs and growth in the offshore industry. It is therefore gratifying that, with a change in the tonnage tax law, we will have the opportunity to make the Danish offshore industry even more competitive and thus ensure Danish jobs and growth in the maritime sector. With the extension of the tonnage tax law, the possibility of other companies taking part in the work of servicing and otherwise assisting the growing Danish offshore industry is being extended, which only strengthens Danish maritime competition in the global market. The Tonnage Tax Act is an advantageous tax law, which in the past has only been reserved for ships with real freight transport, but that is being changed now. The new legislation extends taxation to ships which have more specific tasks to enable them to compete more effectively in a changing maritime market. I should also like to mention that, in this legislative measure, there is not also an extension of the so-called DIS scheme, which is the tax-free fee that shipping companies have to pay to the seamen covered by the scheme. Thus, it is merely an extension of the vessel portfolio, in relation to which vessels may be subject to tonnage tax, and not at the same time an extension of the scope of the DIS scheme. In the Left, we are in favour of these measures, which are intended to ensure that Blue Denmark is in the future, and here it is not Denmark, but that part of the industry that is on the wave the blue, I am thinking of • even more growth and prosperity. And if the rest of blue Denmark gets it too, it doesn't matter. The law is fully in line with the focus we have on continuously making the various Danish industrial sectors more competitive. The maritime industry fills a lot and, like other parts of Danish industry, must have good conditions in order to withstand the increasing international competition. The new tonnage tax law gives Blue Denmark a greater degree of competitiveness vis-à-vis foreign competitors and at the same time will ensure that the maritime industry is up to date with international standards. The Left is in favour of the bill and looks forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142227	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142230	I understood that it was part of a growth package to create more employment, and then I assume that we agree that the huge employment that lies in, for example, employment. Esbjerg, is located there because there is a need to sail wind turbines out of Esbjerg, which is needed to service oil platforms out in the North Sea. How many more wind turbines have to be transported after this, how many more platforms can you expect to be created after this? Or, to put it another way, how many more jobs can you imagine this will provide?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142307	I don't have any figures for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142312	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142313	No, but when you stand here and advocate a tax relief to create employment, you might have thought a little about what it will then give of employment. In other words, does this mean that more things are being sailed from Esbjerg, that there will be more employment in Esbjerg, or does it just mean that the companies operating in Esbjerg for the companies only operate where there is reason in it • get a tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142342	It's not just. So, this means that Danish companies become more competitive towards foreign companies, and thus that the jobs that come will become Danish companies and that they will be Danish jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142354	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Astrid Krag as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142405	In Denmark, we have a proud tradition that goes back many, many years to be the world leader in shipping, and not only leader in the world's seas, but also leader in the global market. This proposal is about extending the tonnage tax scheme so that it can also benefit the Danish offshore sector, i.e. wind turbine ships, as Mr. Frank Aaen was in, hotel ships, guard ships, etc. We are doing this to improve Danish competitiveness, which will ultimately ensure investment and jobs. The bill, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, is part of the government's growth package in 2014 and an agreement from June last year between the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservatives. And I would say that I am very pleased that at that time we managed to find a broad majority in order to strengthen the framework conditions for Blue Denmark, so that it is also the expectation that there will be a broad majority behind the bill here. We are also amending the maritime tax law with this bill and, like the rapporteur of the Left, I would like to say that it is not about extending the DIS scheme; someone has problematized that when we do not, there is a symmetry that is being lost. However, I have to say that the changes we are making are entirely in line with the agreement on a growth package and are therefore a response to what has been widely agreed politically. The government has worked hard for, the Social Democrats are working hard for the Danish business community to have the best conditions of competition. The proposal here is about securing it for Blue Denmark, and this is an important step towards securing investment in the country and thus jobs. That is why, of course, we also support the proposal from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142553	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142558	Again, do you have any idea in the Social Democratic Party what this gives of employment? I believe that there is no indication that there will be more employment, for example. Esbjerg, just because the companies operating from there are granted a tax relief. So isn't this just a tax relief for business, which is a gift to the bourgeoisie that wants all these tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142625	Thank you. Many of the measures that have been made in the growth plans implemented by the government are, after all, some things that have also emerged from the framework conditions that we can see Danish industry has when conditions change in other countries. This is, of course, one of the things that is important when we are going to be a competitive country where we continue to choose to invest and run our business. This is one of the keys to the existence of jobs. This is part of it. I do not know whether there is a definite growth and jobs estimate in relation to the overall growth package or the concrete element here. I was not in the negotiations, but I am sure that the Minister will be able to reply to that or that we will be able to have it answered in committee. But maybe I'm the opposite, sir. Frank Aaen, if I hear him correctly, has no doubt that it is important for Denmark to be able to compete here if we are to be a strong player in the global maritime area, as we have been up to now, and as I believe we should be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142719	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142721	What is just my point is that it does not create more employment in Esbjerg or in the North Sea, that companies operating there are granted a tiny tax relief, because they operate there because it is a good idea from the production that is, with energy and wind turbines. That is why I say: the only thing that comes out of this is that perhaps there are a little more ships that are being flagged for DIS, i.e. for the Danish Register of Shipping. It's possible. But why do companies have to be granted tax relief just to move flags?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142757	I can answer Mr. Frank Aaen again that it's not my experience that it's the correct picture. One can partly talk to the industry about this, and one can look at what other countries around us are doing with expansion. The enlargement we are making here makes Denmark the front, also compared to what we are doing, for example. has done in Sweden. It's important. It means something. Then I agree with Mr. Frank Aaen in that the trees cannot grow into heaven in the way that we can unlimitedly favour certain professions. Then I think that many professions would line up, and it could be very expensive. So, of course, there must be a balance all the time, and therefore it is also nice to note that what we are doing here hits a balance that has ensured very broad support in the Folketing. And that's usually a very good clue in terms of whether you've hit right with what you're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142845	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217142854	This bill is about the implementation of an agreement with the Danish People's Party on a growth package. This is a partial agreement, I think I should say where the only parties that are not included are the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten, but as my party is included in the agreement, we can of course support this bill. The draft law, in its simplicity, is about strengthening the framework conditions for what is called Blue Denmark, which is a major industry for us, and it is important that we continue to have very good framework conditions in this area, which is also why we have such large industries in this area today compared with so many other countries. In concrete terms, it is a question of extending the tonnage tax system so that special ships can also be put into this scheme. It could be wind turbine ships, ice handling ships, hotel ships or guard ships. In future, if this is adopted, they will also be able to get the tax that other ships have been able to get. The aim is, among other things, to: to attract new vessels to Denmark and secure investment and thereby also jobs. But in relation to some of that, sir. Frank Aaen has asked about it, too, to protect the profession we already have today. If we do not continue to ensure good framework conditions for this industry, contrary to what other countries might do, it may also mean that jobs are being relocated to other countries. That may also be a good reason why we are now making this scheme, namely that we want to protect the profession we have, after all. It is not only to give tax relief to the professions that you then have, so that they will then have better conditions. I believe, also on the basis of what the industry itself has stated in the consultation answers, that it has been afraid that this has reduced the exploitation of the potentials you have to create jobs, and that is what you are counting on with this. I do not have a particular figure from the Treasury on what it will give, but the industry itself hopes that this will have a positive effect on employment and, if nothing else, protect the profession we already have. In the Danish People's Party, we can at least support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217143058	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217143107	Now my esteemed fellow rapporteurs have said a lot about this bill. I very much agree with your presentation of the proposal. Let me add that, for me, it is extremely important that we not only have attractive framework conditions for our business but also stable framework conditions. In particular, it applies to those industries where we have strength positions. It's Blue Denmark. It is also about taking due care, looking at how the conditions of competition change globally, and so ensuring that we are on the top, that is to say with the promotion when it comes to strengthening the conditions of competition in Blue Denmark. When I say it is about being attractive, it is also about taxation, the labour market and the various schemes; the DIS scheme is an example of that. In addition, it is also a question of stability. I think there is. I would like to emphasise this when it is a broad majority that supports the extension of the tonnage tax scheme. In fact, I believe that the strength position we have on Blue Denmark's territory is something we should safeguard and develop in the future as well. But this is a really, really good step in that direction, and I would like to support that. Radical Left supports L 124.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217143255	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, on behalf of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217143316	In July, the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the SF signed a partial agreement under the agreement on the growth package, which contains the present bill to strengthen the framework conditions for Blue Denmark. The growth plan has been drawn up on the basis of the recommendations of the growth team from Den Blå Danmark and with contributions from a wide range of stakeholders from the maritime industry. The growth plan concludes that there is a strong growth potential for Danish maritime companies and good opportunities for Danish employment, for example. Special ships. As the tonnage scheme is State aid to the maritime sector, the scheme is therefore designed within the framework of the EU maritime State aid rules. It is not included, as has also been said from up here, in the agreement on the growth plan that, in addition to the extension of the tonnage tax scheme, the so-called DIS scheme must also be extended accordingly. The proposal does not, therefore, extend the scope for shipowners to pay their employees seafarers with a net tax-free fee. SF is part of the agreement and supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217143428	Thank you. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217143447	It cannot be ruled out that this proposal means that a little more special ships will be registered in the Danish International Ship Register. I guess you can count on that. Does it have any impact on employment to the extent that there is any Danish employment on those ships? We know, of course, that the extent of Danish employment is very modest both on the long-distance vessels and those who, in other words, typically sail a little shorter routes here, for example. from Esbjerg to the North Sea. In other words, more employment does not give it, and it does not give it for the simple reason that there are no more tasks to be done. After all, no more wind turbines should be transported into the North Sea than before. There is no need to transport more to the drilling rigs than before. There will be no more supply ships and what they are all called than before. So it doesn't give you any more employment. It is, after all, pure fantasy that happens when you talk about the fact that it is for the sake of employment in the Danish shipping industry. It is possible that it gives a little more employees and a little more tonnage in the ship register, but that happens just by moving a ship from one register to another register. It is not that there is more to be done under any circumstances. So I think that this should be seen as what it is, and that, of course, is what the bourgeois people in this Chamber have gone for. That is to get a tax relief for the shipping companies. That is the objective: that is the result, because the ships that currently operate from Esbjerg and other ports with the types of activity we are talking about today pay tax on their profits, which are considerably higher than the gross tonnage tax. So there are a lot of ships moving away from today to pay taxes to the extent that they have not used other schemes, and unfortunately there are many of them, but they are still paying on the basis of ordinary corporation tax, and now they have the opportunity to move from corporation tax to tonnage tax, which is considerably lower, also over time. Then it says that the loss of revenue is very modest. Now it would be a good idea to make a bill that improved the Blue Denmark with a revenue gain, but that is of course so much required. But is the loss of revenue modest? I would just like to say that when the tonnage tax was made, it happened at a time when A.P. Møller had a lot of ships registered in Bilka, Danish Supermarket. In fact, one of the largest Danish shipping companies was Danish Supermarket, not because goods had to sail to the Danish Supermarket. But because the Danish Supermarket was the owner of those ships. They did so because, in that way, during a period when the ships were built and written off, they could benefit from a lot of tax advantages, i.e. through depreciation. That means that the whole logic of the Danish tax system is that on the day you make profits on your assets, that is when these giant ships can make profits on their operations, tax will have to be paid on the profits of the operation. But then the cunning thing happened that one could move the ships into Danish tonnage tax, and vupti, then one did not pay corporation tax on the profits and went on to the very light tonnage tax. So it was a huge amount of money, and I will ask the Minister about it. It was a huge amount of money that never came to taxation in that way. The money has been deducted from the building and the development of the ships in the first years of operation, but since tax had to be paid on the profits of the operation, the profit completely disappeared from taxation because they could switch to tonnage tax. It is the same thing that is happening here, and I hope that the Minister can give an answer as soon as possible on the extent to which it has been ensured that the scam is not used once again, that is to say that shipping companies that have made deductions can now evade normal tax. Can I make one more thing? I think I can see that when I look at time. So I just want to say that if you want to do something for Danish employment on ships in Denmark, you should remove the quite unreasonable rule that means that Danish trade unions must not organise and should not therefore fight for pay and working conditions for foreign sailors on Danish ships. This is a rule that has been criticised by the UN many times. If you considered changing that rule, you could increase employment in Denmark, and then there would not be the loss of competition, like today, where you can hire a Filipino, and where the Filipino cannot be allowed to work under Danish pay and working conditions. See, we could get to that. Then there was something to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144016	Thank you. So this is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144022	I will start by addressing the things that Mr. Frank Aaen has asked about this during the debate, because it seems that Mr. Frank Aaen has completely misunderstood the purpose of this legislation. Sir. Frank Aaen talks about the employment effect. I do not think there is any particular effect on employment in this, and I do not think that is the intention either. The intention is to ensure that the shipping companies with these vessels to be covered by the tonnage tax scheme want to pay tax in Denmark rather than to put shipping companies abroad where corporation tax is lower. So that's for the benefit of the Treasury... and that's what Mr. Frank Aaen's worried enough about this bill to have seen the light of day. After all, we in Denmark currently have a corporation tax of 23.5%, and a shipping company with these vessels may as well be located in countries with a lower corporation tax than the Danish company. They could do so and maybe they already do so today. But if you give them the opportunity to opt for tonnage tax in Denmark, then they choose it and it secures money in the Treasury. That must be the purpose of this bill. We support the bill because we prefer companies to be located in Denmark rather than abroad. However, I would add that we do have a proposal that corporate tax in Denmark should be reduced from the current 23.5%. at 12.5%. And the possibility is that tonnage taxation will no longer be attractive if it is possible to opt for a general corporate tax, like all other companies, with 12.5 per cent. Then there will be equality between companies in Denmark and we will not need the tonnage tax scheme anymore. But as long as we have a corporation tax of 23.5%. decreasing to 22 per cent. Next year, which is relatively high, we think we should try to keep shipping companies with vessels of this kind in Denmark under an extended tonnage tax scheme. We therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144249	Thank you. And then it's sir. Brian Mikkelsen for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144255	It is a good, tiny step towards making it more attractive to be a company in the Blue Denmark, to provide development and jobs in the Blue Denmark. The entire offshore sector employs approx. 20,000 people, and it is estimated that there are approx. 5,000 people employed in wind energy, oil and gas production. But if we handle it in this way in the template called the Blue Denmark, it means a small touch towards that there are more who will invest in development in Denmark, and more who will also invest in special ships in Denmark. I say that this is a tiny step in the right direction, because much more could be done in this area. Firstly, there could be a broader definition of special ships. Secondly, we could also look at the introduction of net wages for seafarers on these special ships, for that would be to create a better opportunity for them to fly in that way and that more people would be employed on those ships. We also believe that, and we have fought for this in negotiations with the government on several occasions and are still stuck to it, and we will also fight for this if we have some new growth negotiations with the government that the tonnage tax scheme should be extended to activities carried out by mobile drilling rigs or by drilling ships. For what is the alternative, as it were, to doing something for Blue Denmark here, is that you either flake out or invest in other countries. We can take a country like Singapore. Singapore invests massively in the maritime sector, and there is no doubt that if you as a shipping company look at the bottom line if you look, for example, at the bottom line. should look at what to do with new drilling rigs or drilling ships • it might be better to invest in Singapore today. That is why we must ensure that investment in Denmark becomes more attractive, and this could be ensured by the tonnage tax scheme, of course, also applicable to drilling rigs and drilling ships. Then I think you would find that more of the ships would come under Danish flags, and that would also mean something for investments in the maritime sector in Denmark. But we can support this tiny step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144516	Thank you to all the rapporteurs. Then I give the floor to the tax minister at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144531	I would like to start by thanking you for the largely positive reception of the proposal. It doesn't happen very often that we go into the rules on the tax terms under which our shipping companies operate, and therefore I am also pleased that a broad conciliation group consisting of the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservative People's Party has agreed to strengthen the framework conditions for Blue Denmark as part of the •Agreement on a growth package from June last year. In its "Growth Plan for the Blue Denmark" of December 2012, the Government stressed the importance of the maritime sector also being able to create growth and employment in the future. With the political agreement and the bill, it is ensured that the framework conditions for Blue Denmark will continue to be attractive, so that we do not lose this growth potential. This means that Denmark can maintain its position as a leading maritime nation in the global market. In accordance with the agreement reached, the draft law contains a number of good initiatives. Overall, the tonnage tax scheme will be extended so that shipping companies can choose the favourable tax treatment in future, also for a number of activities typically carried out in the offshore area by a number of special ships. These special ships could, for example, be wind turbine ships, ice handling ships, hotel ships and guard ships etc. This is a significant extension of the tonnage tax scheme and a significant improvement in the framework conditions for the industry. The proposal will therefore significantly strengthen the competitiveness of the industry in the global market, where there is fierce international competition and high mobility. I think it is worth emphasising that Denmark, with its proposal, is in fact a pioneer country in trying to get the EU's approval of an extension with such a wide range of specialist ships' activities. The proposal also amends the Maritime Taxation Act to ensure that the extension of the tonnage tax scheme does not lead to any changes in the scope of these schemes. This is due to the fact, and it is clear from the decision on a growth package, that there is no need to extend the maritime tax scheme alongside the extension of the tonnage tax scheme. I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place today and, of course, I would be very happy to answer the questions on the details of the proposal, the impact which might come during the committee procedure. Sir. Frank Aaen raised a specific question concerning the transitional rules applicable when the tonnage tax was introduced at the time, including any possibility of circumvention. I am aware that the question has not been clarified in the past, which is why I do not have the opportunity here and now to answer it, but I will come back to the question in committee. By the way, I look forward to the further examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144838	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144859	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217144926	SF wishes to introduce tax liability for foreign participants in Danish limited companies, even if they do not operate in Denmark. Commanding companies are not in themselves tax subjects. It is the participants who are the tax subjects if they are otherwise taxable in this country. This means that foreign participants are, as a rule, taxable only in Denmark if business is carried out through a permanent establishment in Denmark. According to the SF, the bill is intended to prevent the limited liability companies from being abused to hide the investment or to exploit the tax rules. Of course, the government can only agree that it is not possible to speculate on the tax rules through the limited companies, but the SF's draft law is too broad, as it will affect a number of taxpayers who do not participate in tax planning. The government already has a strong focus on combating tax havens and tax speculation. It's an ongoing process where we have to be on our toes all the time. In mid-December, for example, we made two ambitious agreements in the field of tax havens. It was, on the one hand, an agreement in my area of ministers, i.e. taxation, and, on the other, an agreement in the field of industry and growth. In both of these agreements there are measures to help combat tax speculation through constructions using Danish limited companies. The agreement in the field of business and growth was concluded by a broad majority of the Danish Parliament consisting of the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party. It is clear from the agreement that limited companies are a special form of company that allows for the quick and easy start-up of a company and attract foreign capital to Denmark. There has been criticism that the owners of the limited companies are not known and that the companies can therefore be used to launder foreign assets. The parties to the agreement therefore agree to include limited liability companies in the register of real owners. At the same time, this Assembly is implementing the necessary legislation in order for limited companies and other companies under the law on certain economic operators to be included in the current register of legal owners, while avoiding double registration in relation to the register of real owners. The Minister for Business and Growth has sent a bill for consultation to implement the agreement. By creating openness about the owners of limited companies, it will no longer be possible for the owners of the investment to stay hidden. The parties to the agreement in the field of taxation are: In addition, the government, Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten find that there may be a need for special attention in relation to the commanding companies. The parties to the agreement have therefore noted that, as part of Project Skattely, it is being examined whether Danish rules on limited liability companies are being applied to tax havens vis-à-vis other countries. The control focuses both on the lack of Danish tax revenue and on structural conditions in Danish tax thinking in relation to abroad. The parties to the agreement have also noted that the Committee on Business Taxation has been set up, inter alia: should highlight any inappropriateness of the current corporate tax regime and the return on investment made by economic operators in their own businesses. At the same time, the parties to the agreement take note of the fact that if more than 50 per cent were to be achieved. of the capital or voting rights of a limited liability company held by persons or companies in a country with which Denmark does not have a double taxation agreement or which is not a member of the EU, the limited liability company shall be considered, in accordance with the applicable rules, to be a fully taxable Danish company. It therefore covers the main situations in which the participants in Danish limited companies are resident in tax havens. It is my opinion that the rules in force prevent Denmark from being abused as a tax haven. In fact, they protect against the abuse situations in which limited companies are controlled from a tax haven. The rules apply when more than 50 per cent. of the capital or voting rights of a limited liability company are held by persons or companies from a tax haven or from a country taxing limited liability companies as independent tax subjects. If e.g. another country taxes limited companies as an independent tax subject, without the existing safeguard rule it would be possible to obtain double non-taxation. This is probably the background to the Russian-owned limited companies in Denmark, which have been mentioned in the press. Russia considers a Danish limited company to be an independent Danish company which is not taxed in Russia. However, the current rules take account of this particular situation. In this situation, the company will have to pay Danish tax in line with a Danish equity company. The providers are either not aware of the Danish rules, or the companies themselves do not. It is also my assessment that the targeted measures included in the tax havens, including increased transparency about the ownership of limited companies and SKAT's investigation as part of Project Tax havens, are the right approach. The government believes that it is targeted initiatives that are needed rather than legislation that is too broad and unfocused. On the basis of the above, the government cannot support the SF's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145531	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145535	I would like to ask the Minister a little more generally what the Minister thinks is the reason why we should have limited companies at all. What is the reason why one is not covered by one of the many other forms of company that exist in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145553	The fact that there are limited companies is, of course, part of the legislation under the Ministry of Industry and Growth, and as such I am not going to interfere in this particular area of the Minister for Industry and Growth. But it is clear that, of course, in all cases, we must constantly look at the use of different types of company. There may be excellent reasons why you have a limited partnership, but it is also clear that if this is the case, it does not matter in what context tax speculation or otherwise. Then, of course, you have to look at it on a regular basis. However, I have to say that it is not the case that I have the impression, although it is not my group of ministers, that there is a general challenge with regard to limited liability companies. But it is true that there have been some concrete examples in the press, which I also mentioned in my speech at the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145656	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145658	I think it is all right for the Minister to point out that this is under the authority of another minister. But when we are in this Chamber today, it is also because of the form of taxation. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Minister why the Minister does not think that there should be the same tax liability rules for Danish registered limited companies as there are for example for Danish limited companies and Danish limited companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145725	As I mentioned in my speech, limited companies as such are not subject to tax, taxing the underlying owners. And so far there are no challenges to this construction unless you have the situations described here, i.e. where there is another country that might view a Danish limited company in a different way. In that case, of course, we must be sure with close scrutiny that there is an adequate focus in control. Having said that, I would also like to stress that it is not the case that we are not going to look at developments on an ongoing basis. And it is perhaps such an important indication to say that it is clear that with the two tax havens we have decided on a number of measures which we shall now see work, and then we can evaluate them once they have worked and see if that is enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145828	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is the Left's Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217145851	The draft law, as most people have probably discovered, is not a draft law put forward by the government but by the Socialist People's Party, and it is a proposal to introduce tax liability for limited companies which, according to the proposers, do not actually operate in Denmark. In dealing with this proposal, we in the Left would like to start by signing off on the cooperation we have had with the government in relation to double taxation agreements. Indeed, with the agreed double taxation agreements, we have taken care to close some of the gaps that existed and to ensure that future taxation takes place on a proper and transparent basis. It is therefore also the view of the Left that the new Finance Act has done enough when all participants in Danish limited companies registered in the company register also have to be included in ownership registration. In this way, these measures are in line with the Government's own desire to increase transparency about who owns a given company. In the Left, we do not believe that further taxation is the way to go. Our resident companies are already heavily taxed, and by implementing such a bill we will risk scaring away many investors. This does not mean, however, that the Left does not want to prevent tax evasion. Together with the government, we have helped to implement several double taxation agreements which ensure that there is openness and transparency about taxation across national borders. In addition, we believe that the instructions given by the 2014 tax havens report speak its clear language. The report clearly states that the only way to put an end to real tax havens is to strengthen international cooperation. This concerns, among other things: on enhanced information and cooperation between authorities on the exchange of information. Then there is the money laundering directive, which has always been supported by Denmark and which ensures that information about the real owners of a company is available to the authorities. In other words, a great deal is already being done to solve this particular problem, and the Left cannot support the SF's proposal. Having problems with money disappearing in tax havens, we in Denmark are not alone in this and therefore the best solutions are also to find international and not national, narrow laws such as those proposed here. We in the Left cannot therefore support this proposal. Then I say hello to our good friend at the Conservative People's Party, sir. Brian Mikkelsen, and say that neither can the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150117	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150121	Well, there's no one who's in any doubt that these commanding companies are being used for fancy, which they'd like to keep under the radar. And I know that the limited companies do not fulfil any functions that other types of property might as well fulfil; they can even do better because there is more control. So shouldn't we just get rid of those limited companies? After all, not all countries have them, and we could just do as other countries do and do away with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150155	That is not what the draft law says; it is not, of course, intended for the abolition of limited liability companies, but it is possible to put forward a legislative proposal on this if you think it is a good idea. It is a form of company we have had in Denmark for many years, and the Left sees no need to abolish it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150210	Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150211	Why? In other words, what role of society does the limited companies play? They do a function for those who would like to keep some things under the radar. So what are the social functions of the limited companies, which, if you have pure flour in the bag, cannot also be used in other types of property?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150237	I cannot agree at all with Enhedslisten's premise that participants in limited companies are people who only want to stay under the radar and try to fake and fake the tax rules. I mean, it is not a premise that I would like to go into at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150253	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150256	But I hope that the rapporteur will, because that is what I was trying to ask the Minister about, and as Mr. Frank Aaen also mentioned what this function is that of the limited companies. The reason why, on behalf of the SF, I have not tabled a legislative proposal to completely remove the limited liability companies was simply that I assumed that it could not obtain a majority, whereas one might ask whether a comparable tax base could not be created between the limited liability companies and the limited liability companies. For what is the special function of the limited liability companies which other forms of company cannot fulfil? I would just like to ask the rapporteur to reply to that. We're looking, for example. often when it comes to entrepreneurs or self-employed people, whether there are new forms of company that can better secure them so that they can easily start up a company. After all, we are constantly looking at this and we have, over the last few years, also come up with initiatives in this area. So what is the function of the limited companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150405	Well, I think it's a little weird. In other words, there is a demand for running a company in the form of a limited partnership, just as there is a demand for the other types of company we have. After all, it must be up to companies that want to run their business in the form of a limited partnership to carry out this analysis and see what is best suited to their business model and what is best suited to their ownership relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150429	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150431	So, the bill here is formulated in such a way that it will really only affect investors who are resident in a tax havens or who have not informed the tax authorities of the country in which they are resident about what they are doing in Denmark. In this way, we have tried to formulate the bill in such a way that it will actually only affect those who do not disclose tax liability, either in Denmark or in the country where they are resident. So in this way, what to say, quite real, ordinary people who participate in a limited partnership will not be affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150516	It is not surprising to me that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen thinks that the legislative proposal she has tabled herself is very good, and I also think she is arguing well for her case. But the Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150526	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150535	Thank you for that, President... or chair. Excuse me, sir. Bertel Haarder, it got out of me. That was not the correct title, I do not really know how to quote here (First Vice-President). Well, that's good. Let's start over. Thank you, President. And now for my speech on SF's bill here. This is not the first time we have discussed the subject of tax havens. We have actually had a number of opportunities to do this lately and well for it. Aggressive tax speculation, the use of tax havens and the fact that working very hard not to reply to the SKAT you should be is basically antisocial and something that affects the community. That is why I would also like to start by stating that this is something that we take very seriously on the part of the Socialists. We do not believe that it belongs anywhere when companies and individuals aggressively speculate not to pay taxes in the country they have earned their money. This is cheating the community for money that should have been used for kindergartens, schools, elderly care, hospitals; we know the good purposes. That is why, on several occasions, the government has also tightened its grip on people and companies who are cheating on the Community with cross-border tax speculation. Just before Christmas, we got two tax havens in place, as the proposers are fortunately also included in the package and thanks for that. These are agreements that need to stem the use of tax havens in various ways and stop the use of aggressive tax planning. And in the agreements we also have a strong focus on the use of limited companies. In addition to what we have already done, the proposers of the bill here want to introduce a limited tax liability for foreign participants in Danish limited companies and partner companies. The aim is to prevent the limited liability companies from being abused to hide investment or to exploit tax rules. We fully agree that limited companies should not be used as part of speculating on tax rules, but we believe that the proposal here is too broad and that it will also affect us taxpayers who do not speculate on tax rules. That is why we maintain that it is the targeted measures that are the way forward. And that is why, with the latest tax havens package, we both ensure increased transparency about who owns limited companies and will also highlight the extent to which Danish rules on limited companies are used as tax havens for other countries. For it is unfortunately the case that, in some cases, limited liability companies have proved to be a corporate form which is particularly subject to abuse of money laundering. Therefore, on 30 January of this year, the Ministry of Business and Growth has sent a bill to the effect that in future, limited companies will be registered in a future register of real owners, in consultation, something I know the proposer is also happy with and happy with. In addition, we already have a rule to counter Denmark being abused as a tax haven and which protects against situations where limited companies are controlled from tax havens. All in all, we therefore believe that we have good tools in order to avoid Denmark being abused as a tax haven in this context, and new measures are on the way. From the government's point of view, we will continue to have a sharp focus on the antisocial speculation of avoiding paying taxes both at home and especially internationally in the EU and the OECD. It is, of course, a cross-border problem in its basic nature, and that is why it will very often also be the international solutions that are effective and effective solutions. We agree that limited companies should not be used for tax speculation, but we believe that the draft law here is too broad and will therefore have inappropriate consequences. That's why we can't support SF's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150914	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217150919	Now the limited companies have received some attention from a number of tax ministers. There have been some of them during this period of government, starting with Mr. Thor Möger Pedersen, who is now also a member of the rapporteur's party, and in this way I am also pleased and agree that this is a good proposal, that is to say that greater attention will be paid to the real owners. However, when the rapporteur, like the Minister, says that it is too broad, I cannot see who it is that it is unintentionally hit, because either you operate from Denmark or from a permanent establishment outside Denmark, and either you can say, you have a double taxation agreement with that country, or you have to pay tax in the country in which you live. Now, over the summer of 2014, there have been a number of articles from the Stock Exchange pointing out some of these problems. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: who will be accidentally affected by this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151027	The SF's rapporteur is right, of course, that if we talk about foreign investors who are not involved in tax speculation, in other words where what is going on is legitimate, we will often be able to avoid taxation following the double taxation agreements, but the assessment is still from the officials who sit in the Ministry, as I understand it, that it will hit too widely, among other things. Because even if tax can be avoided by means of double taxation agreements, the increased bureaucratic setup that will be around it will continue to affect oneself. However, like the rapporteur, I can tell that it is one of the things that it would be good to clarify further by asking questions, so I think the rapporteur should do so. I cannot get much closer to that than what I was trying to explain here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151114	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151123	The reason for this bill from SF is to assume that there have been a number of stories over the years that Denmark has actually been a tax havens because of the use of limited companies. It has been seen that foreign investors have used limited companies to channel money to other tax havens, among other things. because the transparency of limited companies has been quite poor, which has had a huge impact on the countries to which the money has been channelled via Denmark. So it has not been Denmark that has lost tax dollars on it, but Denmark has then acted as an intermediary, you might say, or a tax havens, and that is a very real problem. And I agree that you should not be able to use limited companies for tax evasion, and also that Denmark should not act as a tax haven. This is precisely why we have tried to find solutions to this in the tax havens that have been negotiated in the Ministry of Business and the Treasury and where we in the Danish People's Party together with others. SF is in both packages. Some initiatives have, of course, been taken there, including: by including limited liability companies in a register for real owners. And we are also analysing whether they should be included in the register on legal owners. This is among other things. in order to provide the increased transparency which should help to counteract the problem. There are also other measures that have been taken, as the tax minister and other rapporteurs have mentioned, so we think that this issue is in fact being addressed. In any case, we agree with the proposers that this is a problem that needs to be resolved, because Denmark is not supposed to be a tax havens through limited companies. But like me... Mrs Astrid Krag also noted, and we think that the solution proposed here may go equally far enough. I think we should perhaps try to see whether the tax havens on which we agree, but which have not yet been adopted in the Folketing, do not solve the problem. And if it comes to the surface, if you can put it that there are still some problems that make Denmark a tax haven, then it is clear that we must look at new initiatives. But as it is right now, I am confident that the initiatives we have found out, i.e. the tax havens that we are part of together with the government parties and Enhedslisten and SF, should be able to solve the problem. At least that's my conviction. That is why we cannot support the proposal of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151358	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151400	I think it is quite all right to disagree with the draft law. I just did not think it was very clear why DF's rapporteur disagrees with the draft law. Dennis Flydtkjær says it is too far-reaching. Why is it too far-reaching to say that you think there should be the same tax liability as there is for example. shares and cooperatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151427	Because it is a completely different form of company and company structure. Because here it is the owners who become tax subjects, and that is not the case with a limited liability company or a limited liability company. There may be different advantages and reasons for choosing these types of companies. And there I think it is rather far-reaching that the SF is proposing to introduce a tax liability for all foreign participants in Danish limited companies, even if they are now not really engaged in business in Denmark. That seems to me to be somewhat far-reaching. But that is not to say that I am not on the issue that may be, or at least have been about limited companies, which have been exploited by foreign investors, so that they did not pay taxes in the country they now came from and have not cheated the Danish Treasury. It is clear that we should not act as tax havens. That is why we have also helped to take some initiatives, such as: along with SF, but I don't think this is a solution to it at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151516	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we'll go to mr. Nadeem Farooq, speaking for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151528	Thank you. SF wishes to introduce tax liability for foreign participants in Danish limited companies, even if they do not operate in Denmark. I would like to say on behalf of the Radical Left that we cannot support the bill. I agree that it is not possible to speculate on the tax rules by means of limited companies. We are very concerned about counteracting this, and that is also why we are fighting tax havens. We are very concerned about more transparency and transparency in relation to citizens and companies moving around in money. In fact, we want and we already have a very focused effort on tax speculation. That is also why we have landed two tax havens here at the latest a few months ago. In addition, we want more international cooperation in the fight against tax havens. So there should be no doubt about where the government stands and where the Radical Left is in relation to the fight against tax havens. The reason we say no to SF's proposal is because we fear it will hit too wide. What we fear is that a large number of foreign investors who are not involved in international tax speculation will be taxed in Denmark. For many of these investors, this would result in Denmark not being able to tax these investors anyway, through the double taxation rules and the agreements that are in this context, i.e. the double taxation agreements with their home countries. But then those investors will be burdened with a large number of administrative burdens. What does that mean? Yes, it is difficult to predict the future," said Storm P., but what we fear it will mean is that Denmark will be placed at a disadvantage in relation to the struggle to attract capital. Now that we talk a lot about the challenges we have in Denmark, it is one of the challenges we may not hear much about, in other words, in attracting capital to investment. So we're not as good as you might think. We want a better investment climate, we want Denmark to be much more attractive to do business in, also for those who want to invest in, for example. entrepreneurs. So, overall, we believe that in relation to what the SF is trying to stem, the proposal will hit too hard and too wide, and we do not want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151823	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151827	I'd like to ask Mr. Nadeem Farooq about what he thinks of the fact that in Copenhagen alone at two addresses there are more than 170 limited companies paying 0 DKK. in tax, although every year billions of dollars roll through the 170 companies at the two addresses in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151849	I cannot deny that this is taking place. I would also like to reject the idea of speculating in different contexts, not only in Denmark, but elsewhere as well. What I also know is that SKAT is constantly making an effort in this area and is constantly focusing on investigating these different structures. So it is not the case that I say that, if we say no to the SF's proposal, there will be no tax speculation whatsoever in this area. What I'm just saying is that we have to be careful to stem some tax speculation to hit so wide that we shoot ourselves in the foot.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151935	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217151939	A year ago, P1 Documentary made a major broadcast about these limited companies, where it was also revealed that we actually have a fantastic reputation in Russia and Ukraine and the Baltic as a tax haven. We are almost sold as the ideal place to make flow companies where you can carry billions of kroner as money laundering through Denmark. It is a reputation that I do not want Denmark to have, and I think we need to know today exactly what the social function of the limited companies is, which other forms of company cannot fill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152030	But it is not for me to say that investors have to choose a particular form of company. Well, there are pros and cons for investors by using the command form, and there may be more who go together to buy through that form. That's one. But that is also the way to say about other company structures, that is to say, that there can be a breeding ground for abuse. The risk of abuse is always there. We can't always eliminate that. The second is that there is in fact a rule that prevents Denmark from being abused as a tax haven. In fact, it protects against abuses where the limited partnership is controlled from a tax haven. SKAT then investigates whether any of these companies abuse it. But I do not think we should go in and tighten up further. It just hits too wide.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152132	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then I give the floor to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152140	Nadeem Farooq said that it cannot be the intention of the Folketing to impose what form of company they should use. I can actually follow that. But it is we who decide what types of company we will offer them. Here we have a corporate form of limited companies; we have known them for many years, not in all the countries of the world, but in Denmark, which has only served as a function, paragraph 1, to keep all activity hidden and, paragraph 2, to channel money to the place where taxes are to be paid at the very least, not by money earned in Denmark, but by money earned elsewhere and should be taxed there, but which one then leads to a tax havens where one can avoid or almost avoid taxation. And that, as far as I can see, is the only function that these commanding companies we are talking about today have: keeping activities hidden and channelling money into tax havens. That is why it is a great wonder when we are constantly hearing that it hits too wide. What is too broad if we are to create transparency about activity and provide security for tax payments? It's not too wide, it's right in the middle. So when we ask what kind of social function these commanding companies have, we can't really get it from anyone. Thus, a limited liability company, a limited liability company, a cooperative company and all sorts of other forms of company have some form of social utility, large or small, meaning by being the framework of some form of economic activity. But we can't really be told by anyone what kind of social function these companies have. We can just be told that it hits too wide. We would like to see in the Enhedslisten, which I also mentioned in relation to the questions, that it was completely abolished. I also know SF means this kind of company, because there is no need to have them, it is only a flowerbed for fancy. So let us finally abolish them if we can get away with it. But if we cannot do that, let us at least have some rules in place, such as those on the environment. tax liability, also for foreign companies, foreign investors participating in limited companies. That would be a great step forward. I have to say quite frankly after the debate here that I have not heard a single serious argument against doing anything more in this area. It is not certain that it should be precisely the bill here that should enjoy the promotion. It may also be that you have to walk right in and just say that we do not want such companies in Denmark because they are abused by all kinds of foreign investors. I do not know, but I would just like to say that I hope that the debate we have had here today will enable us to have a good discussion in committee. In other words, we would like to vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. We would like to vote in favour of the proposal if it is amended in a form which states that we are completely abolishing that form of company. We would also like to vote in favour if we agree in the committee's work on a report or something else that, like, takes us forward along that path. And I would like to say to the tax minister and to the SF: Well, we have done a lot of good things about tax havens, just before Christmas and also earlier, which has taken us steps in the right direction, and there is no reason why we are not trying to see whether we can go a step further on the basis of this proposal. We will certainly work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152523	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152531	I'd like to join you, sir. Frank Aaen and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen have asked many times in this debate: what are we going to do with limited companies? And I would also like to say that they have not received an answer to that. Well, then I'll try to answer. One thing that command companies are good for is if the owner could do it, for example. be a family-owned company, wants to attract investor capital, but still wants to retain control of the company or with the company, i.e. get investor capital without giving control to investors. Then you can make a limited partnership, and then you get money in. And investors do so in confidence that the issuer of the commanders can manage the company crediblely, and investors are so willing to put money in it without being able to control the company. That is one purpose, and I think that is an excellent purpose if you wish to have a business in that way. And if there are investors who would like to invest in companies without gaining control, why should the two parties not be able to meet in a company form that is recognised and well-known in Denmark and has been so for many, many years? Then we say from the left: Well, because there is no taxation of the company, but only the taxation of investors, the commanders, separately, one can risk that money will come to Denmark, which is not taxed in Denmark, but which will then first have to be taxed out with the commanders, who are in other countries where they may not be taxed. Well, it's a noble purpose to worry about taxes being charged in Russia, but frankly it's not our problem here in Denmark whether the Russians are charging the taxes they have to by their business people. None of Denmark goes because the Russians do not charge their taxes. It is certainly not a problem for Denmark that some money might come in through some Danish companies, which have such a speculative character and then do not come to taxation in Russia as they should under the Danish rules in the field. So, as long as the Danish state taxes Danish co-owners of limited companies, we should be happy. What the Russians do, we don't care. So we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152810	Sir. Frank Aaen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152813	Well, can we now be completely indifferent to what the Russians are doing and that they even use Denmark as stepping stones along the way? In other words, tax havens, whether in one form or another, mean that some companies are free of tax and thus gain competitive advantages over the companies that pay their taxes. Isn't that also a problem for the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152838	Well, it is a form of company where it is not the company that pays taxes, but where it is the commanders, or what you call them, who pay the tax, and if they live in Denmark, the Danish state makes sure to collect the tax from them, but if they live in Russia, it is not the Danish state that has to do so, then it is the Russian state. I understand, sir. Frank Aaen's zeal in ensuring that the Danish state receives the taxes that the Danish state is to collect. But I think it is going a little too far now if Mr. Frank Aaen is so incredibly concerned that the Russian state will be charged the taxes that the Russian state has the right to collect. This is almost approaching a fetish, a treasure fetish, for Mr. Frank Aaen. Not only does he care about the Danish state, he also cares about whether the Russian state gets its taxes levied.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152932	Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152934	I asked now whether the Liberal Alliance, as a liberal party, is not concerned that some companies will have a competitive advantage compared to others because they can avoid paying taxes. It is therefore a very general issue which should concern a party that considers it important that companies can compete on proper terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217152959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217153000	All limited companies in Denmark are charged the tax to be collected from them, which is 0 DKK, because these are the rules in Denmark: You do not collect the tax from the limited company, you collect the tax from those who own the command units. So there is a total equal taxation of limited companies in Denmark. Then there are just some of the owners who live abroad, where they have to pay the tax that they have to pay, and then Mr. Frank Aaen found out that there are some of their home countries that do not charge the tax. But it is not the company itself that is being discriminated against there. After all, it's the owner who pays a lower tax than sir. Frank Aaen thinks he should pay, but that is because in that country he has chosen to tax in a different way than we do in Denmark. And that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217153055	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217153119	Right opposite Christiansborg there is a building with an apartment in which there are 110 addresses attached. It's a small apartment. There is no reception; there is a name tag on the door. It was there at least a year ago when again, again, the focus was again on limited companies and Denmark's role as tax havens because we have companies that use us to continue capital. I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen in that it does not matter whether Denmark is used as a tax haven. I'm not. I find it embarrassing that on Russian websites we are being marketed as the world's best country to operate this specific tax havens construction. I find that embarrassing. I also find it embarrassing if we do not take our responsibility seriously when it comes to participation in combating international tax fraud and tax havens. We've had a very big discussion in Denmark lately about these Luxleaks, these revelations from Luxembourg. I think it's hard to keep the tab high if we contribute to this ourselves. We're not doing it with our good will, but we're doing it because we have this form of company that can and is being used this way. It's documented over and over again. The SF has tabled this bill because we thought there was a slightly greater chance that we could at least guarantee a tax liability instead of abolishing it altogether. I have tried to ask today what the good answer to the question of why these companies even exist in Denmark is. Why isn't one of the many other forms of society that could be comprehensive? I have not received that answer, I think. I have received an answer from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, but I do not agree with that answer, but I do thank you anyway. So I would like to put those questions through the committee to the Minister. After all, the government has announced that it is required that all participants in a Danish limited company be registered in a company register to be included in owner registration, as it is called. That is really fine, because then we will actually be living up to the international standards for combating tax havens and money laundering. As has been mentioned several times, before Christmas we have also made two very fine agreements on combating tax havens for which I would like to sign. We made it a long way. With this bill, the SF will think that we have made a good deal of progress. In fact, we also think that it is a Danish obligation when we have a number of tax ministers, most recently Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, the Minister, who has spoken dunders against tax havens and tax evasion and international tax evasion, that we ourselves should not be the homeland of a practice that is hailed on Russian websites for being the best place in the world to cheat on taxes and lead through billions. I'm not going to go into the details of this bill here. We have discussed it a lot today. In short, we think it is reasonable that there should be a tax on the limited liability companies. We think that with the way the draft law is drafted, no one is accidentally affected, and in this way we think that there is reasonableness in this. We have heard several times from various rapporteurs that it hits too wide, it hits unintendedly. What is the basic problem? I don't see who it might hit unintentionally. I don't see that it hits too wide. The minister was also up here as the first to say that it hits too wide. Somebody's gonna get hit by this. But we cannot get an answer to who it is, so I would now like to put the questions through the committee and also hope that, even though the parties have said what they think about this proposal in the House today, we can still have a discussion on it in committee. Then I would like to thank Mr. Frank Aaen and Enhedslisten, with whom we have excellent cooperation in this area, and I am also generally very pleased with the cooperation with the government and the government parties in this area. I would think that we had gone even further in our efforts to actually take the lead both at home and internationally in order to put an end to tax havens in general and tax evasion. It is a practice which means that billions of dollars are pouring out of the country, which could have been used for welfare or just to cover the gap in the slumped treasury. In fact, I also think that we have a moral responsibility on top of the financial crisis, which has affected ordinary people and caused the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, that we are making an effort to put a stop to the gaps that we can, so that the money that is legitimate to be taxed in Denmark, and that at the same time we are actually helping or getting other countries to make the right tax where they should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217153700	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217153722	In the rapporteur's line, Mr. Peter Juel Jensen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217153747	Thank you, President. When the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen has no opportunity to be present in the Chamber today, I read Mr Lunde Larsen. Esben Lunde Larsen's speech as rapporteur. L 131 is a draft law amending the Law on Maritime Training and the Law on the Assessment of Foreign Educational Qualifications. The aim of the draft law is to modernise and harmonise certain rules applicable to maritime education and training establishments so as to comply as far as possible with the rules applicable to other education and training establishments of the Ministry of Education and Research. Danish maritime companies together account for approx. 24% of Denmark's total exports and is of invaluable importance to Denmark. The Left therefore shares the government's goal to strengthen the competences of so-called blue Denmark, so that we can continue to be among the world's leading maritime nations. We agree that the foundation for the Blue Denmark is access to competent and highly qualified maritime, technical and mercantile trained employees. That is why we support the way in which the law is put in place so that higher education is also covered by the law on open education and the law on basic vocational training and higher education for adults, thereby becoming part of the overall system of continuing training. One important aspect is that training is practical and must respond to the need for skilled labour. Furthermore, they must be based on research and development knowledge. Finally, the draft law will make maritime education institutions equivalent to professional academies and colleges. L 131 will be able to contribute to more people choosing a maritime education in the future, which will help to strengthen the competences of the Blue Denmark. It is for these reasons that the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217153951	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217153959	Thank you. Blue Denmark is a central part of the Danish economy, and therefore it is also important that there is qualified labour for the whole sector. In order to get more young people to choose training in the maritime professions, it is important that we ensure the future of education and training. The amendment we are proposing here will therefore create a better framework for maritime education. It does this by harmonising the rules and by comparing maritime education with the rest of higher education. The proposal for a directive creates greater flexibility, and this is mainly due to the fact that maritime education is also given the opportunity to develop new training courses. When it is no longer legislation which alone defines the training to be offered, it will be easier to adapt the supply in cooperation with the industry, and in this way we will ensure that the supply of training continues to be up-to-date. In order to achieve high quality both in education and in education, it is also important that research is linked to the training programmes. We have already made a grant linking research and development activities to the professional Bachelor's degree programmes. Maritime educational institutions are also covered by the Administrative Act and the Public Service Act. This is not a huge upheaval because they already operate according to similar principles. Nevertheless, it is an important signal that in this way we will also strengthen the status of students. The draft law therefore means that maritime education is equated with the rest of higher education, and this is to ensure a high quality of education. If you look at the consultation answers that have been, you can see that there is unanimous support from the main stakeholders, and not surprisingly, the Social Democratic Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217154157	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217154208	Thank you. Blue Denmark is a central and important area for the Danish business community and for Denmark. While it is part of our history that we are a maritime nation, it must also be part of our future. We must ensure that there are the frameworks for the industry that make it still attractive to stay in Denmark. It is about many parameters, for example. the establishment of maritime clusters, as you do on Funen, where companies and networks can support each other and get returns from knowing each other and thus be able to solve tasks together, which create greater value for customers and thus also the basis for taking higher prices, when the shipyards not only offer to repair the ship but also offer that you can change the linoleum in the canteen, get a training assignment for the ship's crew, so that the time in the dock is not wasted but effective time. A necessary basis for the whole profession is a training sector which can provide sufficient and skilled labour. In view of this, today's bill is quite a small element. It is a question of harmonising legislation on maritime education and training with the other courses at professional high school and professional academy level. This is an appropriate way of achieving greater coherence in the education system, also in order to make it easier, simpler, more uniform rules, for example. in connection with merit. A commendable element is also the extension of special educational support to maritime youth education. All in all, this is a proposal that does not exactly revolutionize the area, but hopefully helps to simplify and make the system more flexible, and thus the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217154345	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party to apologise, the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217154359	Thank you. The Socialist People's Party will just have to wait. As several other rapporteurs have already mentioned, this is after all about amending the law on maritime education and the law on the assessment of foreign education qualifications. The Radical Left, of course, also supports this bill, and we do so for the reasons mentioned by several other rapporteurs, namely that we would like Denmark to be strong on the maritime side too, and that we ensure that the sector has access to the right skilled workforce, and that with this bill we also realise that if more people are going to be trained in the maritime field, there is also a need to see whether training is up-to-date, whether training is being trained for the needs that exist and whether the training courses meet the same standard as the training courses with which they can otherwise compare. This bill makes it possible for new maritime training courses to be introduced because we are changing the legislation so that there is no longer an overview of the training offered by the various institutions. In addition, as I have said, the content of the proposal is also at the heart of harmonising maritime education rules so that they are adapted to the rules of other higher education, and that it is easier to organise and develop training according to the needs of the needs of maritime education institutions and to allow students in maritime education institutions to interact with other higher education institutions in relation to exchange and educational cooperation, etc. Against this background, the Radical Left can support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217154610	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217154619	Thank you. I was just as happy; SF is a diverse party, and Mrs Liv Holm Andersen should be so warmly welcomed. The draft law we are discussing today, as several have mentioned, is, of course, a small, most technical legislative proposal. It is a small change, but one can also say that it is a small change in relation to a very important large profession, and that is also why it is important, I think, to give it a few words along the way. It is the case that Denmark has very proud and long traditions for the entire maritime industry. On good days I sometimes suggest that we rewrite our Danish history, namely that Denmark has not only been an agricultural country, but to a very high degree also a maritime nation; there might well be more room for this in the history books. But the future is also the one for which we are constantly designing our education. That is why it is also important for us, with the maritime industry, to bear in mind the openness and inspiration that comes from the outside world, precisely because it is an international industry. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned Funen's Maritime Cluster, and I will, of course, do so because it takes up a great deal in the Funen business area. I would also like to mention that for SF it has always been an important profession, and also in my time as Minister for Business and Growth I worked hard to get the Blue Denmark. I found it difficult at first to talk so much about Blue Denmark, but here it is the maritime cluster, the maritime growth team, which can exactly go in and create new growth opportunities. That is one of the things we need, as a source of income for our society as well. That is why we need to constantly look at whether we have the training we need and whether the training has the quality that they should have, so that we can continue to compete on an equal footing with the quite increasing competition that we face from the outside world. This requires that we constantly modernise, that we keep education up to date, and we must do so in very close cooperation with the professions. And we must not only cooperate with the professions, but also ensure that these training courses remain practical. We do, among other things. with this bill, and the small change is also that we ensure that they are flexible, so that the educational institutions have the opportunity to create the new initiatives that may be needed. So this proposal creates an increased coherence in the Danish education system. This makes it easier for students to maneuver across programmes, hopefully. And, of course, we also hope that this will help to improve the conditions of competition, as I mentioned earlier, also at an international level. We have a few comments from the SF on the bill. One relates to following up on what Svendborg Maritime School mentions, namely that the amendment of the law may result in increased administrative costs. They are not saying that it does, but that they have a concern about it. And the Minister replies that the proposal does not require significant changes in the day-to-day workings of the institutions. But of course this is a matter that I think we owe each other to keep an eye on, and so I would also like to suggest in committee that we should register that we are carrying out an evaluation in three years' time, when the training has had the opportunity to have been going on for a number of years, so that we can evaluate it; we must promise each other that we are doing so here, so that we can see whether there are the disadvantages which, among other things, exist. please tell your doctor or pharmacist. It may also be that there are some good initiatives so that we can beat each other at that time. Then we also find it very positive that maritime education is given the opportunity to participate in international educational cooperation. It appears that the draft law allows the educational institutions to offer their full-time training abroad as separate income-covered companies. At first glance, it sounds like a very good idea, but we will also just flag for it, according to the criticism that has come from the Danish Students' Council that it must not affect Danish students and that it must not mean increased user fees either. So the quality abroad must meet Danish standards, and it must be ensured that students are not subject to user charges. With the few comments, the SF takes a positive view of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217155056	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217155106	Thank you. It is nice that there is something we can agree on in the Danish Parliament, and it is that the maritime education programmes we are proud of. They are well-functioning, they are part of our source, they are knowledge, experience and practice-based, they train many young people for employment, they help to give our country a vision, and they have a culture of education in general that also equips young people for the world. So it's amazing. One can just say that perhaps we should also be better at learning from these courses, which work so well, and take some of the things like this. the closeness of practice and the integration of the profession with the training courses and transfer them to some of our other courses, among others. Vocational training. But we'll have that conversation another time. Like Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, I have just paid attention to the administrative costs. I think it is important that, when we introduce something that can increase administration, we also remove something else. So perhaps you could ask the Minister to look at whether there is something old that we can remove when we do something that might make it a little more difficult out there. But otherwise, the Liberal Alliance supports L 131.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217155230	Thank you, but first we need to hear the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217155244	Blue Denmark is a Danish success story. This is mainly due to the efforts of Mr Bendt Bendtsen, then Minister for Industry, which the present government is continuing. Blue Denmark today stands for 24 per cent. of our total exports. It is clear that this success could not have been achieved without our good training in the maritime sector, and if we are to maintain this Danish position of strength, we must of course maintain and develop these courses. That is why, in recent years too, we have had more training places and we have had better conditions for students, both in terms of their ability to be strengthened through international study visits and through real talent development. The draft law here strengthens international opportunities in our educational institutions, and the research and development-focused effort becomes part of and wait now, it's a long term professional bachelor's degree programmes. And, most importantly, the coordinated maritime education system must be close to practice and at international level. Otherwise, we will not hold the front in the world. We agree with the proposal, because if we are to maintain and develop this significant position of strength, we must be practical, international, and have the training places that are needed. The Conservative People's Party can therefore endorse the bill which continues the work of the VK government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217155417	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217155428	Thank you. Me and the government are happy to share every success. A wise man he was radical has said that the best successes are those for which others take credit, and I think I would like to attribute that to Bendt Bendtsen, because it is very good to have gotten this area and these educations so high on the agenda. So thank you all very much for the very, very positive reception of this smaller, but nevertheless important bill on the change of maritime education and amending the law on the assessment of foreign education qualifications. What is important to me as Minister of Education and to the government is constantly working to strengthen the competences of Blue Denmark, so that in the future we are also among the world's leading maritime nations, and I hear a very broad support for this. The Blue Denmark is growing and also in development, it means more and more things, and there is a need for trained and well trained labour. In order for more people to choose maritime education in the future, training must be able to develop both in line with the needs of the industry and with new technological developments, so that training is always competitive. So that's the purpose of this bill, as it is well explained. The rules governing maritime education and training are harmonized with those applicable to other higher education in order to improve the ability of educational institutions in this field to develop the relevance and quality of training. After all, it is emphasized that the courses are vocational and professional-based, that they have the very close relationship of practice and that the maritime professional Bachelor's degree programmes are also based on research and development. They will also have better opportunities to participate in international educational cooperation, and students' opportunities to take part in their education abroad will also be extended by this bill. Then it opens up, and I think several of the rapporteurs also mentioned this, precisely not to have such a narrow definition in the law anymore, but to develop new maritime education if that need arises. The status of students is also improved by the fact that the educational institutions now have to be fully covered, as are all the other educational institutions, by the administrative law and the public law. That is where a single person may have expressed the fortunate reservations about whether it leads to more administration. So I do not expect the maritime educational institutions to receive this as a result of being included in the administrative law and the law on public access. I think it is fair and, incidentally, I think it would be mysterious if there were some educational institutions which were exempted from the laws to which all other public institutions are subject. So it is a harmonisation that should take place so that students, regardless of which educational institution they apply to, have the same legal status and the same opportunities. It is clear that this is new for some, and perhaps especially for the smaller educational institutions, but I wonder if, once it is in place, it will succeed quietly without much more work. Of course, we should be aware of this, but I would think it was very unfortunate not to apply it to these educational institutions too, and just add that the rapporteurs of the SF and the Liberal Alliance also mentioned the concern for the administration, and we must always have it, and it is good to have it. The maritime area is subject to very extensive international regulation, and it is, of course, the same thing, because it is an international profession that we must be able to engage in as an industry, and therefore also in relation to the demands made on the trained personnel and, in general, on such jobs. That is why there is a lot of international regulation, and it will probably be difficult to change it. I think it is good for the industry that we have the very highest standards here in Denmark too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217155921	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217155939	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Employment first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160004	I think there are a lot of people who have great sympathy for the proposers' desire to introduce equal access to grief leave for both parents. I agree that maternity leave, as it is today, does not reflect the fact that parents are equally affected by the grief of losing an infant. That is why I agree with the intentions behind the motion for a resolution. There can be no doubt that fathers need to be able to mourn, and there is nothing that is almost more tragic than losing a child. That's where you need to take care of each other. I have, of course, been a little surprised that the SF did not choose to raise the issue during the negotiations on the Finance Act, which took place not so terribly long ago. It was whether you could use that expression at the time that the Treasury was open so figuratively speaking. The government, you know, attaches importance to showing financial responsibility, which is why we cannot put forward proposals that are not funded, nor can we vote in favour of proposals that are not funded. But that does not prevent me from agreeing with the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, and that is why I really hope that there will be a majority in the Folketing who will address the issue of mourning leave for fathers and co-mothers when there will again be economic opportunities to implement the plans as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160144	Thank you, Minister. I see that Özlem Sara Cekic has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160151	I am glad that the Minister considers it important to be equal to men and women in relation to a child being stillborn. I'm glad. The Minister says that we should have taken it up to the financial law negotiations, but it is the case that a great many things happen in a year, which does not necessarily take place right up to the financial law negotiations, but which we still think is a problem that we would have liked to have dealt with. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister about many of these initiatives that are being launched between the Finance Laws. Is it happening because there's not a single penny in the box? Is it only in the context of finance laws that a government can prioritise funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160236	I just think that I made it quite clear in my speech that if you decide to introduce an additional annual cost, what might be good reason for spending perhaps up to 24 million. kr., it must also be done within a framework of ensuring the economy. That is why I took the liberty of referring to the Finance Act, which is probably one of the places where it might be wise to do so. And I also concluded my speech by saying that I was hoping that next time, as I said with a glimpse in my eye, there will be a chance that the money box will be open, there will be parties that will serve this purpose. Because, as I have said very, very clearly: I agree with the intentions of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160324	Özlem Sara Cekic has a further brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160329	I heard that too. I heard the Minister recognise that there is indeed a problem and that they would also like to look at it. But that's actually not what I asked. I asked: what do you do between finance laws? If there is an initiative that you think is important, or something that happens urgently, if something passes by that triggers something, does that mean that there is no money at all? I guess it's a matter of priorities. In general, I think it would be nice to know whether it is only for the Finance Act there in October and November that money can be dropped, and for the rest of the year there is nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160403	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160406	I think Özlem Sara Cekic has been a member of the Danish Parliament for so long I know that she knows that when it comes to such fixed expenses, it is in connection with the events that it may be the rate pool, it may be in connection with the Finance Act that you take operating expenses like that kind of thing on board. I have to say that it is not the case that the Finance Act left some box unused over in the Ministry of Employment. Had it been, many things were easier, but the economic way of doing things does not work that way, and I would therefore like to say once again very clearly: what I am saying here today are in fact two things. One is that I agree with the intentions behind this bill, and then, as a member of an economically responsible government, I add that we will have to find the opportunity to finance the intentions, for example by means of a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160500	Well, then, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr also a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160505	I think it is nice to know that the Minister says that when financial law is negotiated, the box is open and that is not how we have found out so far. I'd like to ask you a few questions. The minister repeated that it costs 24 million. kr. I've heard of that before, but is that right? It is if all men take the 16 weeks' maternity leave. And what is it like today? Has it been examined how many of them are taken on sick leave because they have grief? Well, that's subtracting something from the 24 million. kr. Has the Minister examined how many of them will have all the weeks, even in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160602	Those were many, but both good and relevant questions. First of all, let me say that I believe that I emphasised it both times, with a glimpse in my eye, that the box is open, that it is primarily in the annual financial law negotiations that we are discussing operating costs. I think I was very precise when I said in my speech that the cost could be up to 24 million. kr. But in relation to those specific questions about how many people are on sickness benefit or take leave today, I would say that I have no further examination of this in the Ministry. After all, we are also working on a committee which, of course, I am answering questions from the committee, so perhaps those were some of the things we could come closer to. But I have not answered the question here on the platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160650	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160654	I think the Minister is saying that these are good intentions, but why has it not been investigated? You know how many people are on sickness benefits. That is why we should be able to tell us about it in relation to what is proposed for up to 24 million. kr. I think that the Minister should examine how much money it really costs, even if we implement it on the basis of the intentions with which the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160724	Well, I'd like to be sure when I stand up here on the platform and answer questions, and also when I say something first. There is no doubt that the static calculation in relation to the costs here is up to 24 million. kr. Then it may be that you can do some studies that show that not everyone takes the leave. I don't know, but I think now there would be very big moves on that. Because, as I said at the outset, when we face such a dramatic event as we are talking about here, we need to take care of it and if we get that opportunity, I think many would actually take it. Then there is the question of how many, if any, are on sickness benefit. I cannot answer that here today, and that is the honest answer. But now we are working on a committee and I will do my best to answer the questions put to the ministry by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160812	I would like to thank the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur. It's from the Left, and that's Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217160825	Thank you very much. Today we are debating motion for a resolution B 51 on mourning leave for fathers and mothers. Proposers want fathers and mothers to be given 14 weeks' mourning leave in connection with infant death. At the same time, it wants the motion for a resolution to decide on the rights of adopters in the event of infant death. Today, the rules are such that the mother receives 14 weeks of mourning leave if the child is stillborn or if the child dies within the first 32 weeks of birth. The father or the mother retains the general right to two consecutive weeks' absence after birth. I must point out, for the sake of good order, that the mother's special right of absence of 14 weeks is due to physical need for a refund after pregnancy and childbirth. It is a directive from the European Union that we are bound by. First of all, I would like to say that I fully understand that it is an unbearable time filled with grief when parents experience having a stillborn child or are so unlucky to lose their child right after a birth. I therefore also agree with the authors of the motion that parents who experience this should have the opportunity to work their grief together. Parents who experience such grief in life need to lean on each other for a difficult time. I therefore think that the SF's motion for a resolution is a very sympathetic proposal in relation to the terrible situation in which the parents of approx. 220 infants experience each year. In the Left we propose that we continue to work on the proposal in committee. We would very much like to learn a little more about the issues, and we would like to have it clarified more, so we would like to discuss the proposal in future committee work. We believe that there are a number of factors which can be further clarified, for example. as financing. The minister also mentioned this. We do not really know how much sick leave is going to cost; what it will mean in set-off; how many people are using it here. So we think that there is a real challenge to clarify the costs that will be incurred. We know that approx. 24 million kr., in the case that everyone uses it. So we think it is a very sympathetic proposal and we would like to continue working on it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161123	Thank you. There is one with a brief comment. It's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161128	Thank you. I understand that the Left believes that it is discriminatory that the mother is entitled to 14 weeks and the danger is only entitled to 2 weeks in the event that the child is stillborn. Now we ignore the economic part of it. But only the principle that there is the difference between how long one must mourn when one's child dies: is it correct to understand that the Left believes that it is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161155	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161158	We believe that grief can be as great with the father as it is with the mother. That is quite correct. And we'd like to go inside and look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161208	Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic? No, no more). All right, there are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank Mrs Fatma Øktem and move on to the next rapporteur. It's from the Social Democrats, and it's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161221	Thank you. When a parent loses an infant, a tragedy strikes his family. Fortunately, we have come a long way in Denmark in the fight against infant death, but unfortunately there are still some 420 babies dying each year. On the socialist side, we want to help those families in grief better than we do today. We have good rights for one parent, the mother. As a mother of a stillborn child or a child who dies before the 32nd week after birth, one is entitled to 14 weeks' leave, but as a father one is only entitled to 2 weeks' leave, and that is only true if you have not already given your two weeks' paternity leave before the child dies. It is an obvious bias in the rules of the maternity law which does not take account of the fact that it hurts a father just as much to lose a baby as it does to a mother, or that today mothers and fathers share much more in the parent role. And it also deprives parents of the opportunity to be together in a very difficult and heavy time. In fact, fathers, as the leave options are today, are expected to be almost ready for work the day after experiencing such an unbearable tragedy as losing a newborn child, while the mother is expected to work with the grief alone. We therefore need to give fathers better rights and change legislation. I am also pleased that the issue of grief leave has been filling a lot here in Christiansborg recently, just as I have been very concerned that we should do something in this area. It benefits both parents that we make sure that as a family they can have a more secure environment in a tough time, but it also benefits Danish society that we ensure that parents who are in a difficult situation meet with understanding and a helping hand to move on again. The motion for a resolution here, which we are discussing today, does not provide any funding for the equality of parents who lose their baby, so the Social Democrats cannot therefore support this specific proposal. However, we want to give priority to resolving the problem in the next budget negotiations, and we would like to invite all other parties to join us in committing ourselves jointly to the imbalance we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161430	There is one brief comment. It's from Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161435	I have a question. It's about the financing part. I've asked the Ministry for a number of calculations on how much it's gonna cost. It can be said that it is 14 full weeks that the father gets, just as the mother has today. But you could just start somewhere else. I'm open to that. You could say 6 weeks, you could say 10 weeks, you could say 12 weeks. Then it is clear that the amount will also be much, much less. However, I have also asked the Ministry whether it would be possible to deduct the actual cost of sickness benefit, i.e. whether it was really an option. They haven't answered that question. What is the rapporteur's view that this is essentially a way of saying to these men that they do not have to report sick because there is money there? You could use them over here. Why is it that you don't want to be involved in this way of trying to calculate exactly whether this is expensive or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161535	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161538	Sickness from work is, of course, a serious matter. This is not something you just do because there are no other options. It's something you do if you're sick. In my opinion, mourning is not a disease. It's kind of a very natural thing to deal with a tragedy. I do not know if that was where the SF rapporteur was. But I think we should be careful about juggling too much with these things. These are two very different things. There can be a very negative consequence of a tragedy, especially if you are not allowed to deal with it properly, namely that you end up suffering from disease. In relation to the economic part of it, I think it makes sense to make some calculations about what this will cost if people take full advantage of the right that is given. Of course, we have to have financial coverage for this. I am convinced that it will be cheaper than the funding we are making. Well, that's only positive, isn't it? I also believe that both in the short and long term there will be savings in sickness absence, especially in the long term. It may then be difficult to finance an initiative here and now for something that may only be going to show a result for many years to come, but I believe that this is economically right and sensible. But that's not really why I support it. I support it because I think it's the right thing to do to protect these families.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161659	Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161703	I would recommend that the rapporteur actually read the answer from the Ministry of Employment. When you lose a child, it's actually so serious that you can get sick on it. I have asked a question and the question has been answered. 43. It is not something you just do, it is so serious when you lose a child that you can actually get sick on it. That's one thing. I have been able to read in the media that the Socialists now want to go in and make a proposal for fathers who lose their child during birth and that they want to do something about leave. I would like to hear: will the Socialists vote in favour of the SF's proposal, or is it just such an empty thing that is said in the press?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161746	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161750	I understand that the SF and the SF's rapporteur would like to make themselves known in the press and would like to have the credit for this. However, I think I have said very clearly that I support the content of this proposal. Social democracy is not going to support the concrete proposal, but I think that this should not be a battle for who should have the credit. I don't really care about that. We want to solve this problem and I hope that many other parties here in the Folketing will be involved in it. I think we should do that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161815	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161819	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it is funny that the rapporteur says that he is in favour of it, but still does not support it. However, I would like to ask a question in relation to the fact that we are talking about funding, because the rapporteur's party comrade, the former Minister for Employment, once put forward a proposal on maternity bonuses, which would cost about half the cost. 50 million kr. Where did the Minister get the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161846	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161849	I think I said very clearly that I share the intentions of this proposal and that I want to support the content of this proposal. I myself have had a similar proposal six months ago and several times before that. So there's nothing new in what I'm saying on my behalf. At the same time, I also say that the Social Democrats cannot vote in favour of a proposal which is not funding. So I would like to propose that we meet on this at the committee's next reading. I think that is a response which I really think very well explains why we cannot vote in favour of this specific proposal. There were a lot of questions, and I think I need the other one again. But in relation to the maternity bonus, I would say: yes, the maternity bonus never really came into being. After all, there was no political support for this, so that money could be found for it by the Finance Act that was agreed upon. It is, of course, quite natural that it should not happen unless there is political support for it. That's the way it is with so many things in politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161956	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217161958	I just think it's weird because the Minister came up with the proposal for a maternity bonus, and it cost money: where did she get the money? Had she discussed it with anyone else, or did she have a majority for it? But you can put that aside. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: if the rapporteur now goes out and says that he is in favour of a proposal, why does he not vote for the proposal that is now before us?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162028	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162031	It's about funding. You can't vote for something that doesn't happen. It costs some money, and if that money isn't there, it won't happen. It does not make sense to vote in favour of a proposal that costs money if funding is not provided for it. That's very logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162051	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162058	Thank you. When I read the proposal, I think it is quite sympathetic. It is also a proposal which is very concerned that we should, of course, have equality or millimeter justice in an area of grief. But I must honestly admit that when I read it, I was wondering: yes, we have some rules on infant death, on stillborn children; we have some rules that say that the woman is given 14 weeks' leave and men have 2 weeks' leave, unless they have held it, in connection with the child surviving until 32 weeks. The reason why women have 14 weeks is that it is the woman who is pregnant; it is a healing process.We have had lots of debates about this and that is also why the woman typically has a longer leave than the man. When you speak grief, my thought went a little bit to my own mind; my daughter is 22, my son is 25, that I don't know if I would be less sad if they died today than if they had died when they were born. I shall not be able to say that because I hope I will never be put in that position. I don't know what it's like to lose a child, and I hope I'll never experience it. But whether the baby is small or big, I think it's an unspeakable pain you're going through. Therefore, I think that instead of discussing millimeter justice, we should have a talk about how we deal with it in our society. For how long do we mourn? It's very different. How do we mourn? It is also very different. And how do we handle it? It is also very different. Employers also handle it very differently. There are some who handle it by giving employees time off, there are some who handle it by having a very great understanding that you are partly gone for a period, and there are some who may not handle it at all. There is certainly a very big difference. But I really believe that the way it should be handled must be human, whether it be an infant, a 25-year-old son, a husband or your parents, because when will we not be sad? That is why you probably use it today, too, that if you have someone close to you who goes away, you will turn yourself in sick if that is what you need. I also think it comes out that it is quite legitimate that one can of course be in a situation where that is the way to deal with it, and there is certainly nothing wrong with that, precisely because we are mourning differently. There are also some who need to get to work right away. If we then introduced that everyone has the right, for example. 14 weeks, 3 weeks, or whatever it may be, some would look down on someone who didn't take that leave because they thought, "Well, that's what you're supposed to do?" But we are grieving differently, and that is why we deal with matters differently, and I think that is very important to bear in mind. That is why I do not really believe that the rule we have today is discriminatory. It has a starting point in that after all it is the woman who has been pregnant, it is she who must heal after a pregnancy, whether the child is stillborn or not. It's on the basis of the conditions you have as a woman the 14 weeks. Then I don't know if 14 days will be enough for a man I don't know if it's for anyone. For some it will be enough, for others it will not be. But I find it very difficult to understand that what we are dealing with here is only about babies. It is, of course, a place to start, and it is not because I want to be negative about it, but I think it is a little difficult to deal with. That also means that when you, for example, are going to be able to do something about it. If you talk about funding, you ask what it will cost, and that is a very good question. Some calculations have been made on the part of the Ministry and whether they are right or not, I do not have to make myself smart, because it is quite clear that today we are handling it in many different ways, precisely by reporting sick or whatever it may be, and it costs money as well. Whether it's the government that pays it all, I shouldn't be able to say either, because I also think that there are some employers who have such an understanding that they say: You know what, we'll figure out how to catch up with the hours you're gone or do whatever you need. So it is, and I think somewhere else too, that we should make it clear from in here that reality also works out there. I think that is important. I would like to say straight away that I think it is fine that we are going to look at it. I think that would actually be a good thing. But I think it should be looked at more broadly, because it is hard to lose someone close to you, whether it is an infant, whether it is an adult son or who it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162605	Then there are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162612	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur said she was talking about millimeter justice. Is it millimeter justice to give the same right to a father as to a mother if the child dies before it turns 32 weeks? Then I have another question. It is about the fact that the rapporteur said that we should look at it more widely. Can we just get the veil lifted on what the rapporteur means by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162644	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162646	In terms of looking at it more broadly, I believe that we should not just look at infant death. That is exactly what I am trying to explain in my speech, i.e. that I think I would be as sad if my daughter or son died today despite the age they have as I would have been if I had lost them when they were young. That is what I really mean by looking at it more broadly, because grief is not just in relation to infants. There may be many other situations. It may also be a spouse, it may be my parents who die, it may be my grandson for that matter. There can be a lot of situations. That is what I mean by looking at it more widely and not just in relation to infants. In relation to millimeters of justice, I think that Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr like to make a premise to say: Well we must all have the same. But as I say, there is a starting point here, because it is the woman who has been pregnant. There is a reason why you also have more maternity leave as a woman in the beginning after a pregnancy than a man. And that's because it's the woman who carried the baby. Even though it is stillborn, it is the woman who carried the child. It is the woman who has to go through the healing process, and that is the way it is. It is therefore actually seen that the woman has more than the man at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162806	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162808	The question is whether grief is something else for a mother who has given birth to a child than for a father who has not really given birth to a child, yet has a baby who dies. So I think it's weird. Then I would like to say that this is, after all, about people being given a grief leave, which means they need some money to be at home. It can be cash benefits, or if it is with agreement, you can be paid during the leave. Doesn't that mean something to people, instead of just negotiating with an employer to be able to take time off without getting some money for it? So I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it the allowance that people are going to get, even if it is some adult children or their spouse or their parents who are going to die?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162903	Mrs Pia Adelsteen
ParlaMint-DK_20150217162905	Now, that is exactly what I think could be worth a discussion, because now it is nothing new that someone close to you dies and, after all, we have a society where we have dealt with it. Actually, I think we do. I believe that we have employers who handle it properly in relation to their employees, and it is both in the public and private sectors, but after all we have a humanity in Danish society that means that when we are exposed to such a situation, we are also trying to help each other. Actually, I think we're really good at that. It also means, in relation to this one with millimetre justice, or whatever you can say, that I do not necessarily believe that a woman and a man mourn differently, but I think that people grieve differently. Actually, I believe that. You can see that. There are some who need to get out to work quickly, and there are some who need to sit and wall themselves a little bit inside or come out and talk to some. We deal with grief differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163008	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163013	I would like to start with the Danish People's Party's rapporteur on a rhetorical approach to the problem at least and the fact that it might be useful to try to find a solution to this. There are two things in what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that I would like to challenge. One is in relation to the physical argument... if you can put it that way... there's about the mother getting over the birth. That is far from right, but as the legislation is today, the 14 weeks that go to the mother will also apply if the child dies when the child is 10 weeks old or 15 weeks old or when the tragedy is now occurring. So the legislation we have today is about more than just the physical conditions and the difference between giving birth to a child and being the danger. So this isn't just about physics. The second is that the rapporteur is quite right in saying that there can be many other things that can cause grief. Unfortunately, there are plenty of examples of this. However, is the rapporteur himself not afraid that this could quickly become a jar of jelly if we are to have all sorts of thinking going on instead of actually solving a specific problem here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163147	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163151	On the small political point of being rhetorical, one can repeat it to the Socialists. I just thought I'd make that comment. I would say that it may well seem very strange that if the child survives the birth and the woman lasts the 14 weeks the man has lasted the 2 weeks, and if the child dies then the woman gets the right to 14 weeks again if the child doesn't feel at least 32 weeks while the man doesn't get anything. That's what you might be wondering. Then you could share it and say that the woman can have 7 weeks and the man can have 7 weeks. You could do that. That is something that I think should be looked at if it is also a money issue, because it could be. Then you have millimeter justice, and you say the need is equal. But it could also be that one should say that it may be good that the family can decide for themselves how they want to do this. It could also be an option. It will be the same as we do with maternity leave. Actually, I think that's a good thing. But how do we do that when it is in relation to grief? Also, because we handle grief differently, it might be possible. But I think we should look at it. It is true that we can go in and say that now we are dealing with it in relation to infant death, but then my optics does not go very long before we have to deal with other problems too. It could be if my child dies when it's 1 year old, why can't I get a leave of absence? And then roll the avalanche, I was just saying, even if that's not how it's supposed to be understood. But then it rolls; usually it does. That's why we need to think, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163336	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163340	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is quite right in saying that there are many other problems that we will not solve if we solve this problem. But that shouldn't stop us from solving this problem, should it? Here we already have an existing legislation where, I think, we cannot solve a problem with a huge amount of money. It is money that needs to be found, and we cannot just shake it out of our sleeve, but I do not think it is a large amount of money in relation to the problem that we can solve and in relation to the many families that we can help. With a relatively small snap, we can solve this problem for a lot of people. Should we not seize that opportunity instead of kicking it to the corner by saying that we need a much bigger debate, and we can spend a very long time on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163429	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163432	It can be said that the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has every opportunity to find that money with a snap. That is what we should think, since it is the same rapporteur's party that sits in government. So if it's that easy, I think he should do it. Well, that's not my job. I do not think so. I express myself positively because I think we should look at it, but it is also difficult to stand and tell a parent that because their child died one week late, you do not get leave. I would like to see the rapporteur do that. So I really think you should think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163509	We shall move on to the next brief remark, which is from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163514	I agree with the rapporteur that it is a little strange to hear the Socialist rapporteur say that you can just get them, that is not a lot of money, and at the same time you say that you will vote against. I'd like to hear something. Now the rapporteur has said on several occasions that there is quite a difference between grief and the one who has borne the child and the one who has stood next to it when you have lost a child. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur can refer to any research which suggests that when a child is lost, the grief depends on one's gender. I think that would be quite appropriate to get on the table, because I believe basically that when you lose a child, it is not your gender that decides how sorry you become. Now the rapporteur repeatedly says that we could also say that families could decide for themselves. Well, the problem is that the 14 weeks the mother has cannot be handed over to the danger. He's got two weeks, and then he can call in sick. That is why I would like them to be treated equally. But you could also make all kinds of other arrangements. But I'd like to hear about this research thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163622	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163625	I don't need to be smart about whether there's been any research that shows whether women and men grieve in different ways depending on gender. I doubt that, and that would surprise me very much. I do not really think that this is something to be researched in that way. What I said, and I hope that I get it in a proper way, is that we grieve differently, not depending on gender, but depending on our personality, okay? I think that is essential, because there are certainly men who go down as much as some women or vice versa etc. etc. It has nothing to do with gender. I think we're just grieving differently. It is important for me to make it clear that it has nothing to do with gender. When I say that I think we should look at it, it is perhaps just the justice that women, even though they have had 14 weeks of maternity leave because the child has survived, are actually entitled to 14 weeks of grief leave. Because that's what they're gonna do if the baby dies before 32 weeks of age. Men don't get anything if they've spent their 14 days. There is what I said: we can look at it, and perhaps you can share it, perhaps you can do some things, including with regard to money and so on. etc. But that's something I think we should look at. What are we gonna do? But at the same time, I would also like to point out again that I think it is important that we do not just say that I am sorry because your child died one week too late. 'Cause I'm not gonna tell a couple who lost their kid because it was 34 weeks old, so we're sorry, it died two weeks late, so you're not getting anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163802	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163805	I fully agree with that. It's a problem in general with grief that there aren't these possibilities. But the rapporteur also knows, like me, that in here we are doing so, that we start somewhere, and then we hope that it can, as it were, develop into a way of unfolding that right. The rapporteur also knows, like me, that there are many different ministers in this area if we were also to involve them in being relatives of your mother and father or relatives of a child. Well, there's a lot of things. That's why we start somewhere. I am very pleased that the rapporteur says that it is not the gender that determines the grief, but that it depends on the individual. That is also why those women who have 14 weeks' right to be able to take grief leave do not all hold it. There are also some who are left after 3 weeks. That's why I'm really glad that we might be able to try to meet somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163854	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163857	Again, we are very willing to look at it in the Danish People's Party, we certainly are. It is also clear that many times we start somewhere politically, and then there is some development. I just think it's very, very important that we might look at it wider. That is what I said in my speech. It's so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163916	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. There are no more brief comments, so we go to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217163923	Thank you. It's completely unbearable when a couple lose their baby. This is a terrible situation which I can hear we all understand very well in here. As several rapporteurs have said and explained, we now have fairly good conditions for one of the parents when something so terrible happens, namely the mother. However, as several speakers have said, this is not quite good enough because the legislation we have does not take sufficient account of the fact that a mother and a father are both affected, and probably equally severely, by the grief that is after such a thing. Nor is it taken into account that a mother and a father are, of course, together about parenting, even when the most terrible thing happens. I think that, and I can hear my colleagues in the field of equal opportunities too, is unreasonable. We in the Radical Left think that is unfair. That is why I am very pleased that we are discussing this today, and I am actually very pleased that the debate has spread to not necessarily just about infant death, but sadness as something more general. So I am glad that the SF has put it on today's agenda. And I am pleased that many parties, both in this debate today and in the past and in the external debate, have expressed their support in various ways to guarantee fathers the same right as mothers. That's really good. I really believe that this is a measure that can make a world a difference for a number of families if it becomes a reality if we are a majority of parties that not only think it is a good idea but also want to work to find funding. So I hope we can find such a majority. Because no matter how well and sympathetic a proposal it is, and I really think that is what it is about here, the Radical Left would also prefer to support a proposal for which funding has been found first. So in other words, the Radical Left will be happy to support this proposal and make it a reality once we have found the resources to prioritise it. That is why the Radical Left will not support the proposal in its present form, but will fight for it, and I hear there are many parties who would like to join in supporting a similar proposal when there is an opening to it, where we can also get it backed up by funding. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164227	Thank you to Mrs Liv Holm Andersen. There's one brief comment. It's Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164233	I am glad that the rapporteur thinks that something needs to be done about this. I think that is very, very good to hear. When the rapporteur mentions the funding, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that we have actually asked questions to hear how many people take sick leave or how many people simply report sick and get the cost covered that way, and whether it would not go up, but the Ministry would not answer that either. So we do not really know whether this is an expense, because it might as well be that it will cost 24 million. kr., in case all men who have a stillborn child take all 14 weeks, but we don't even know if all women take 14 weeks. So is it not true that it is far better to give people that right instead of having to go begging for sickness benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164332	Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164336	I can only relate to the best answer I have; and the best answer I have is that it will cost up to 24 million. kr. a year, and it will do so in the future. And that is why it is money that we have to try to make some kind of suggestion as to where we will find it, and I think that is just better to do that where this sort of thing takes place, in a debate on our budget, in a debate on finance law or some of the sub-debates that are going on under it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164407	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164411	Does the rapporteur think that it is a good answer to say that you do not know how many men take sick leave? When we ask the Ministry how many men report sick and get sickness benefit and we can't get an answer, is that a good answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164429	Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164433	I have the impression that everyone is doing their best when they go to work, and that is why I think the officials over there in the Ministry of Employment have done their best to answer this question. That's why I have to deal with it. I think they have used the facts they have to the best of their ability, and then it may be that they do not have the right knowledge, that they do not have enough facts, that they have not got the right input, and we must take note of that. But I think they have just responded with good will and with their best insight, and that is what we need to discuss on the basis of. That is why I think the right thing to do is to bring up such things for debate, in which you have taken part, in which you yourself have reached an agreement, and in which you also had the chance to find this money. We shall have the chance to do so again, and we would very much like to be involved in this in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164527	I thank Mrs Liv Holm Andersen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164539	Of course we support the proposal that has been put forward here. That is not only fair, it is not only sensible, it is also a cheap proposal. It is often the case that some good, sensible proposals here in the Danish Parliament come across as saying that they are not affordable. That argument simply cannot be used in this case. It's just giving a hand to those who get into a very unhappy situation. I ask myself why there is a majority saying 'no' because of the funding. Of course, not least the government will be able to find the small funds you need to finance this proposal. That is why I would say that for us it is still very mysterious what is the reason for saying no to such a sensible proposal as the SF has put forward. The thing is, fathers as well as mothers get a huge grief when their children die as babies. We probably know some families that go through this grief. This means that one half of the parents, the fathers, can only have two weeks to deal with that grief, and it also means that mothers are left alone with it when the other half is forced to go to work. We know that the fathers will have to register for sickness even if they are not clinically ill. We cannot be familiar with that. I would just like to conclude by saying that we should have a majority that will vote in favour of the proposal when we find funding, even if it is cheap. So I look forward to the committee reading, because I am optimistic that we can together grant grief leave to fathers and co-mothers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164737	Thank you, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr and move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217164745	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think that my colleague, Mrs Pia Adelsteen, made an incredibly fine speech which I do not think I can do better. This is just to explain that Mrs Pia Adelsteen was simply saying some of the things that I think are important to get out. It has been said here from the platform several times that this is a sympathetic proposal. I've been sitting down there listening to it, and then I've been thinking that no, I actually don't think it is. In fact, I do not think this is a sympathetic proposal. I think this is SF classic. Now the SF is no longer in government, and what you do is sit down and find out who's having a hard time. And then you find the answer that is always the answer, and that is increased redistribution. Because there's no one in this room who doesn't want to say that parents who have lost their child aren't having a hard time. It's the greatest fear for all of us to lose a child. Whether it's an infant, an older child or, yes, an adult child, it's the greatest grief there is. What just makes me not like this is that SF does what they always do. It is that they find some who are having difficulty, and then they say: Redistribution is the answer. Find the money, we don't want to, but somebody has to do it. I don't think it's sympathetic. Having said that, we in the Liberal Alliance believe that no matter how much maternity we give and in what situation, it should be the parents themselves who are free to have that maternity leave and to distribute it between themselves, between mother and father, as you see fit. What parents who lose a child need in the situation they are in, with the grief, the need for care, empathy, understanding, warmth, humanity from family, from colleagues, from employers, we cannot assign here from the platform of the Folketing, and I regret that SF reduces all the needs these parents face to a question of redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165028	There is one brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165033	Of course, it is shocking to learn that the proposal is not sympathetic. So, I really think it is quite appalling that one can say that a proposal that would like to give men the same rights in terms of mourning is not sympathetic. I still think it is quite impressive that it can be done by the Liberal Alliance. I would really like to talk about the men who do not actually have the same opportunities as women. And then I would like to hear clearly that the rapporteur has not actually read the proposal and does not know the rules: can you as a woman, when you have the 14 weeks, give them to her husband if the child is stillborn? Can you or can you not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165114	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165116	I explained very well the Liberal Alliance's proposal by saying that we are fine with it if we change it in a way that we can distribute it among ourselves. The question here is whether we should have a cost-effective proposal. And there's what I think and it's been presented quite well by many of the others who have been on the platform it's unsympathetic that SF hasn't bothered to find funding. What I find unsympathetic is that you take a group that we all know is in a very, very difficult situation and say: Find the money, we are not going to do it. I do not think that is very sympathetic. One rapporteur after another has stood up here with a bent head, for who will be the one who says that it is not a sin for these people? We all believe that this is the most difficult situation one can imagine in any way. But I think that SF is taking this difficult situation hostage when you say: it just has to be solved, but it's not us who do it; some others have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165217	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165220	However, these were incredibly many words compared to exactly a group of people who are having a really difficult time. I would also like the Liberal Alliance to be able to show social responsibility at times. But that is clearly not what is meant in this proposal, in relation to funding. It was quite conscious that I actually asked the Ministry how many people are receiving sickness benefits, because I think it's up to how many people do it, that is to say it's going to go up. But you won't answer that. It's not like I don't want to find funding. And that is why I think it had dressed the rapporteur a little bit, that she might have read both the questions we have asked and what the Ministry has answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165303	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165305	Well, that's what I actually think is so, I hardly know what to call it: that SF places itself in this situation as the only ones who defend these people, and doesn't see that the situation they are in is so complex and so deep and so violent, and that it has so much more to do with everything else. For some people it may be better to go to work, people are different. It's fine that we set up a flexible system, but what I don't like is that the SF says: now somebody else has to solve this, we're not going to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165344	Then there is one more brief comment. It's from sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165349	I think that it was Merete Riisager's rapporteur's speech that was cynical than it was the SF's proposal. But I would like to ask a question, because the rapporteur says that the 14 weeks can be distributed between women and men; that the 14 weeks can be divided between men and women. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of the EU's maternity directive, because that is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165423	What I indicated and what I explained is LA's position. I said quite clearly that is LA's position on this maternity leave; that is LA's position on maternity leave, by the way, no matter what the European Union thinks. I am well aware of the EU's limitation of maternity leave. We are against this. We believe that no matter how much maternity leave is granted to a family, mother and father should be able to distribute it among themselves. We think this is the most reasonable way to do it, and that is LA's position on maternity at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165458	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165502	I find this interesting, because that means that the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of having maternity leave as a woman after giving birth. From the outset, I am very surprised that we are making a proposal which we know we cannot get through with. That's impossible. Then we have to make another proposal, because I hope that the rapporteur knows very well that people who have a child who dies in the first 32 weeks will have a great deal of grief. What, according to the Liberal Alliance, should we do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165540	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165543	As far as I know, Enhedslisten also has quite a lot of policy that is contrary to EU law. So has LA. And we therefore believe that maternity leave should be able to be arranged in a way that allows mother and father to distribute it freely between themselves. There's no way that's surprising, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. With regard to what is sympathetic and not sympathetic: we just want to say that all the challenges and all the problems that parents who are facing an incident like this are not just going to have to be reduced in this way. And when I say that the proposal itself is not as sympathetic as it sounds, it is because the SF has put it forward in a way in which they have not bothered to find funding either. Then it will be a march of emotion, and then all the rapporteurs will have to stand up here with a bent head. I think that is wrong. This is about so much more. I also think that when a proposal is put forward it should have the decency to demonstrate funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165643	Then there are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mrs Merete Riisager and give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Dyremose from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217165651	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that there are a number of problems, a number of inappropriate ones in relation to this, when and why you can be given leave for serious illness and death. That is why it is commendable that we have an opportunity to discuss it, but I agree with those who have said that it is a little easy just to say: let us make some change and someone must find some money. It would have been a little more commendable if we had also indicated how we should finance this proposal. Having said that, I do not think that the proposal before us is the right answer to the problems. Today it is the case that many people who lose a child and regardless of their age are registered with the sick; they can be registered with the sick, and they will be individually, depending on their needs and the grief process they are undergoing. That means that we have legislation in this area. And with regard to this inappropriateness compared to 2 of the 14 weeks, we agree that it seems very, very bizarre, and it must seem very, very bizarre to the individual family. But there is no doubt that it is at least as bizarre that you do not have the same access to leave if you lose a 2- or 3-year-old child to leukaemia, for example. We believe that this must be seen in a context. Now that we are on leave here, I would also like to flag another thing that we Conservatives have mentioned on several occasions, namely the fact that you can now receive care leave if someone close to you is very seriously ill and dying. But the moment this close comes to hospice and therefore to end life, leave ends. Then you have to get back to work while your loved ones are at hospice. All the time we know that a dying average is at hospice for 15 days before he or she dies, it seems quite absurd to us that you cannot continue your leave while you have a relative on hospice. I would therefore very much like to say, in line with what was also said by the DF's rapporteur, that we think this should lead us to look together at how we deal with leave for serious illness and death. And I will not say here what the answer necessarily is. I do not think the answer is simply to implement this proposal. I think so, among other things. It is not because of the things I have mentioned, and so there are a number of other issues which are at least as absurd. But I also think it is important that we remember one thing here. It was said just now by the SF rapporteur that this was the right to mourn. I do not believe that leave is equal to the right to mourn. We all have the right to mourn. Help to get through the grief is quite different. For some, the answer to it is a leave of absence, an opportunity to go home and be with those you love. For some, as others have mentioned, it is to get to work and move on; that something happens and that you are out talking to your colleagues; that you do not get locked up. For some it is getting psychological help, and for some it is all sorts of other things. That is why I think this gives us reason to look at it a little wider. What should you do then, and what is the right length of leave? I'm not gonna be able to say that. In fact, I believe most of all that the right thing is that you can be granted the leave you need individually, because some people need far more leave than others. And it's not about whether you're a man or a woman or whether the child is 2 weeks or 2 years old. It's about how to grieve, maybe also the circumstances you've lost, how prepared you've been, how you as a person handle that grief. That is why, frankly, I think this should end up in the fact that we are all looking at how we deal with leave of absence. Then it may be that we have to introduce some standard leave, one knows one has in certain situations, or it may be that we have to make it more clear that what we now call sick leave can also be called something else, but at least that we have made clear what it is and thus do not necessarily have a difference in whether one loses a child of two weeks or two years. So our call here will be for us to move on to work on this, and for us to work together to find some sensible answers that not only cover infants but cover the whole area, and that in this connection we will have the drill a little more thorough in the area, and there I hope the Minister will help us to find what is actually used by funds for sickness reports in connection, for example. grief, so that we can get a realistic picture of what it will mean that we might change it to something else. Because I am not at all sure that there are quite a lot of people who need to have a different leave than the one they have today; it may just have to be called something else or dealt with in a different way. So I hope we can work on that, but first of all we must find the money if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170227	Then there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170232	At any rate, I fully agree with the latter: the money must be there. If we decide to have some expenditure, there must of course also be financial back cover for us to be able to bear that expenditure. I think that makes sense. The Conservative rapporteur outlines a number of issues and suggests that this should really be a much wider debate on all sorts of things that affect this, and I respect that approach. I just think it is a pity if it is to stop us from solving a problem here and now, which we can actually solve. The fact that there are other problems out there in the world that we will also have to solve later on, and that we all have a desire to get closer, should not stop us from solving a problem that is right in front of our noses. And then I have to ask about the Conservative People's Party's policy in this area: besides being willing to discuss this and look at this, is it also something that you are willing to prioritise financially? Is that something you're willing to drop tax cuts to the richest and then spend some money on such a core welfare as this really is?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170346	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170347	Let me start by saying, as has also been said before, that if it is so straightforward, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff in a government party, and that is why it is just going through with things. So please stop doing that rhetoric, please. Yes, we are willing to give priority to this and we are also willing to find the money, and we are, among other things, because we want to ensure that we have a business climate in this country that makes us make some money, so we can afford welfare. We could use a little help for that, instead of having a government or a social democracy that usually just says that a tax increase can solve everything, because it cannot. A tax increase could mean we can't afford this core welfare. But yes, we'd like to make this a priority. In relation to the fact that it is right in front of my nose, I have to say that I do not think this should be given priority over the other issues I mentioned. In fact, I think it is a bigger problem that if you lose a two-year-old child, you are not entitled to leave than it is that you are only entitled to two weeks if you lose an infant. I also think it is a very, very big problem that you should go to work or lie or sign up sick or do something to avoid going to work for perhaps five days, your next of kin is at hospice after you've gone for six months and cared for the person at home. There I have to say that, therefore, precisely because it is also a financial priority, I believe that we need to look at the issues that are here. And losing a child is not a greater grief if the child is 20 weeks than if it is 2 years old. That is why we need to deal with these issues in context when we need to prioritise resources for this purpose. We think it is important to find a solution that works and so people know what they have to deal with. What we call it and how we do it is what we have to find a solution to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170538	Then it's mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170542	What I got out of the beginning of that speech was that this grief effort, which Conservatives are also calling for us to move forward, must be financed through tax cuts. That's the way you want to find money for it. If I misunderstood, the rapporteur must finally correct me. I think it is • and it is perhaps more a comment than a question • a slightly upset attitude to say that there are so many problems out there that we cannot manage to solve them one at a time. Here's one problem. We can fix it. We are a minority government, so we need a majority in order to resolve this. I do not think there is anything strange about being a minority government that needs to gain support for everything you do, even if you want to do something like this. We're trying to solve this, and I think it's sad if the goal is to go for the lowest common denominator, that you don't say: here's actually a place where we can raise the level of some people. We can help a lot of families, and the opportunity is there now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170648	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170649	I do not know whether the Socialist rapporteur has made it a matter of court discipline to try to misunderstand, because it certainly comes in a row. What I thought I said very clearly here was that this is, of course, a matter of priority. That is what the Socialist rapporteur himself said in his rapporteur's speech. If we are to do so, we in the Conservatives think it is important to think in terms of: where are the needs most needed? And then I would much rather make sure that it can also work and hang together in the small home when you lose a 2-year-old to leukemia than I will necessarily make sure that you can have a whole 14 weeks if you lose someone in 20 weeks. I just have to say that there are some things here that are at least as important to us, so now that we have to make priorities, it is important to us that we get the whole thing around. Because I find it very difficult to see that you just go to work the day after your two-year-old died after you may have had a longer care period, a longer illness, possibly had to work a 5-6 days while the little one has been hospitalized. And then you just stand there. Well, it's not an ideal situation either. This is far from an ideal situation, and that is why I think that this controversy should stop and that instead of perhaps going a little constructively into looking at some overall solutions here that are connected. It doesn't matter that the policy we are doing in here is actually a little connected and understandable to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170813	Then there is another brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170818	Thank you. It is very difficult to disagree, because it is quite true that there are some things that are not related to the grief leave, and we would like to take a look at that, first and foremost in order to clarify how the rules are around in different ministries, so that we can get an overview. That is why I also think that we should try together to see whether we cannot somehow get something in writing that we can require the government to investigate. We'd love to. I would just like to hear: is there anything that prevents you from starting somewhere? When we want to have better grief leave, even if the child is older and dies, is there anything that prevents us from saying at the same time that when the child is stillborn, we must also guarantee rights, as when the child is older? I'd like to get an idea of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170915	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217170916	Now you can do most of it, so there's nothing to stop it. What I'm just appealing to here is when it's not the case that SF comes with a bag of money and can just implement it here because there's money for it; and now that we're gonna sit down and find an agreement, that some problems that we think are at least as important are being taken into that context. I also have to say that one of the things I referred to before is that I am not sure that it is the only right thing for all people to sit at home 14 weeks. It could also be that we should consider a little what is actually possible for some psychological assistance etc. That is why I think it is actually necessary to see this in a context, and that is why I think we should also consider whether it is 14 weeks for a particular group that we should fight for, rather than perhaps a shorter period for some who have no rights and opportunities at all today, other than that they should report to the sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171009	There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank Mrs Charlotte Dyremose and then give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171022	Thank you. Thank you for all the comments. I think this is an incredibly important debate. Today it is the case that parents who lose a child are affected by great grief. The legislation on infants recognises this to one side, namely the mother. As the rules are today, the mother is entitled to 14 weeks' maternity leave while the father is entitled to 2 weeks' maternity leave. Fathers and co-mothers who lose a child are as badly affected by grief as the mother of the child, and therefore we in the SF believe that there should be equality of these rights. That is why we have put forward a proposal that, by 1 April 2015, this equal right should be granted to both sexes. Unfortunately, however, the debate here illustrates very well that it will probably be very, very difficult, because there is no majority for which I can hear that we can put this into effect. At the same time, however, I would also very much like to acknowledge that a great many people have been up here telling us about a need to do something. I understand that the government rapporteur, Rasmus Horn Langhoff, says that they are a minority government and therefore requires them to obtain a majority. Then I would just like to say to the Socialist rapporteur: count straight. The Social Democrats, Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten actually give a majority together, so that argument cannot actually be used at all. Then I would also like to say about the financing part that we have actually asked about several things about the funding part. We have asked how many women take all 14 weeks, because we know today that not everyone does. But the Ministry has replied to question 10 that there is no information on that. The reason I just mentioned this is because I don't think everyone takes the 14 weeks. Some come back faster. As the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said, the grief is different, depending on who you are, but the possibility is there, and I would therefore very much like to include it in the accounts, but the ministry could not deliver it. Then I asked you something else. So how many men get sickness benefits, report sick, so we can pull that number out, too? If it turns out that we're giving 20 million. kr. for sickness benefit, the cost is 24 million. kr., it is clear that this is a completely different discussion. The Ministry will not answer that either, because they say that they do not have information about it. So it's not like we didn't do anything to get a better number. Speaking of the whole debate on how ministries provide information to committees, I think this is a very good example of how we cannot move forward. That is why I believe that the cost of 24 million. kr., as calculated by the Ministry, corresponds to all men and mothers taking all 14 weeks. Then we reach 24 million. kr., but that's not the reality. The Minister does not really know that either, because I do in an answer. The minister doesn't know what the reality is. That's why I asked about reality, so we could sort of make a calculation based on it. I can hear what other rapporteurs are saying. I think it's very exciting together to try to look at how we can get this information, so we have a better basis when we're going to discuss this next time. Then I also hope that we can look together at what the rules for handing over some of these 14 weeks that women have are like. But it just takes us to know whether she spends all of her 14 weeks or not. That's what I really, really wanted to know. Then I just want to say right here in the end that I think it is really a shame. There's a political majority for this. Both Enhedslisten and SF want these people to be able to get sick leave when their child is stillborn. The government has the opportunity to change that, but I have to say that once again it remains with the good words on a piece of paper, but not with practice in real life. However, we shall continue to consider the proposal in committee and then we shall see how far we can go there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171510	There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171514	I do not understand the pessimism of the SF rapporteur. So, SF has experienced a hand-out today, not only from the Enhedslisten, but also from the government parties, that you want to continue working on this, that you want to find a solution to this. The only thing we have said about the proposal that has been put forward today is that money is needed for it, because it costs some money and there has to be funding for it. That it can be turned into that the government won't anyway, or that the SF feels bothered for that reason, I think something mysterious is something so that a disagreement is invented for the occasion when we actually meet this and actually want to do this together with the SF. So that's what I think should be focused on instead. I have just one question for the SF rapporteur, out of curiosity. Has this been a wish or a demand or a proposal by the SF in the financial law negotiations that were concluded here before the New Year?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171617	Then it's Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171620	Or I could just turn it around. I can read in the press that the government thinks this is something that needs to be changed. The government believes that men and co-mothers who lose their child at birth should have that right. Has the government proposed this to the finance negotiations? Did the government say it's something it wants to change? Of course, I cannot stand by and say what our negotiator has brought in or not, because I have not negotiated myself, but it is quite natural that there are also a number of proposals between the Finance Laws. Now the rapporteur says it costs some money. We don't know how much it costs. That is why I have asked questions. I simply have it in black and white that I have asked the Ministry: how much will it cost? How many are receiving sickness benefit? How many women take advantage of the 14 weeks? Moreover, we must remember that we are open to all ideas. Or we could just start by giving them six weeks, so the amount will be much lower. You could make all kinds of different constructions, but it also takes a government to play with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171731	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171734	That was a very long answer which did not answer my question. It must be assumed that you are talking in the SF about this sort of thing when a motion for a resolution is tabled immediately after a financial agreement with the SF. So my question is very simple: has the SF proposed it here in the Finance Act negotiations, or has the SF not proposed it here in the Finance Act negotiations? Is that first something you suggest at the same second the box goes in?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171804	Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171806	I have actually answered the question. There's no more response from shaking your head. I still don't believe this. Now I hear that there is actually quite a broad majority in favour of us examining how much this rule will cost, that is, the Ministry has to find out how many men are receiving sickness benefits and how many women are actually using 14 weeks, so we can count on it in that way. In fact, I do not think the cost is so high at all, but as I have said, I have asked the question. That's what I can do as a member of parliament, but it's the Ministry that can answer it. I've been asking about all these things, and I've also been given the inadequate answer that this is going to cost something, even though we know these men are gonna turn themselves in sick. I simply think that it is so unworthy, rather than having the right to grief leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171903	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171926	The debate is open and I will start by giving the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217171950	I do not think it can be said that I am revealing any great secret when I say that the government has discussed the issue of earmarked maternity for fathers in depth. However, the government took in autumn 2013 when SF was also part of the government, based on a global political decision that earmarking leave for fathers was not the best solution in Denmark. Often the rules on leave in Norway and Sweden are referred to as examples of school in relation to the use of maternity leave by fathers, and this can of course also be inconvenient. But I think it can be said in this way that we cannot just do what we do in Sweden. You can't make a one-to-one comparison between Denmark and the Swedish and Norwegian rules. Earmarked leave for men in the two countries was introduced in the context of a large improvement in maternity conditions and thus also an extension. This meant that families did not experience any deterioration in their existing conditions, on the contrary. In Denmark, we already have a long period of entitlement to maternity benefit. I think most in the Danish Parliament agree on that. We had the opportunity to change the approach to maternity leave and to better earmark leave for fathers when the then government extended the leave period in 2002, but this was then not chosen. The government considers that the current 52-week leave period with maternity benefit is an appropriate period, and we do not have any plans to change that at present. The government sees a risk that, overall, families will take less leave with their children than they do today if part of the right to parental leave with maternity benefit is earmarked for fathers without, at the same time, extending the total period of leave. It has not been the Government's intention that children and families should risk ending up paying the price of an earmarked maternity leave. I have great sympathy for the proposers' desire to make maternity leave simpler and more transparent, because the rules are complicated. But, of course, we should also bear in mind that the great flexibility that the rules allow, and which I think many families are very pleased about, is part of the explanation for the complexity of the rules. However, I would like to see, and we should like to take part in a discussion that we can simplify some of the rules next time we have to review maternity leave. Then it is nice to be able to conclude with a welcome message: the parties to the agreement in the state and the municipal area have agreed to give fathers an extra week's pay during maternity leave. I think this shows that the parties can and will carry out the task of gradually improving the conditions of the agreements. I can inform you that I have already received the first application for a derogation from the principle of equal treatment to be submitted by the parties to the agreement under the equal treatment law, and I will take a positive view of this, as I have already indicated in a conciliation procedure. The application will now be dealt with urgently by the Ministry of Employment, so that the outcome of the collective agreement can be put to the vote by Members, and I think that is actually very, very positive. That is why I must also make it clear in conclusion that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172329	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172336	Thank you, Minister. I draw such a little on the smile tape because the Minister's argument is about Norway and Sweden. I would like to ask the Minister: what happened when a motion for a resolution was made in opposition or when it was written in the government base? Was maternity leave something you wanted to extend, or would you just distribute what is now earmarked for maternity leave to include men? And when the Minister says that you lose a few weeks, I would like to ask, first of all, why? Secondly, when has it been found out in relation to the government base?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172429	As I said at the outset, it has not been a secret that there has been a discussion about this between the three then governing parties. But the three then governing parties made a decision. What I referred to with Norway and Sweden was, of course, the fact that if you are in a situation of extending rights and improving opportunities, it is easier to decide that there are some people to be disadvantaged, i.e. in this case the fathers. Our analysis is that if you do not extend the rights, we may risk that, overall, in some families at least, there will be less time between parents and children. And I think that's a really big price and a bad price to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172514	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172516	Well, that's just not an answer, because it's in the government base. Then there has been discussion, says the Minister. Yes, but who was against, and who was in favour? Or who ran from the government base? Because nothing happened. There was a report, but it did not say that there would be more or less maternity leave for families. So something must have happened at some point, so that some people said no to the old government basis. So I just want to hear, who is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172556	It's not like it wasn't an answer. It may well happen, it was an answer, as Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr did not think a good answer or did not agree with it, but it is something other than that there was no answer. In fact, I just noticed very precisely at the outset that it is no secret that the government has discussed this here, and that it is also no secret that the then three government parties took a decision on the basis of an overall assessment that they did not want to earmark parental leave for the fathers from the overall point of view, that when at the same time they could not extend the leave scheme, there could be a risk that there would be less time with the children because the families chose differently. That was the recognition that the government came to, and I think that was quite openly discussed in this way for a period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172644	The next brief remark is from Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172648	Thank you. I'd like to ask you something. Now the Minister is saying that this will also have some economic consequences for families. However, in our motion for a resolution we have written that, during a phase-in period, we could say that there is a possibility that the unused weeks can be transferred to the mother, and we could, of course, make a phasing-in period of five years. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172718	Of course you can imagine all kinds of constructions. But that does not prevent the answer I gave to the question from being the position of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172730	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172734	So that means that the government has a goal called: more men must have maternity leave. That's the goal. But the government will do nothing to achieve that goal. Imagine if the government had a proposal called: we want more people to get a job. How do we do that? Well, we just think it's gonna come sometime. You have to have something concrete. I understand that this proposal for a transfer and a phase-in period is not working either. But what else will you do to achieve that goal? Well, I could better understand it if there wasn't a goal. But I understand that the government has a goal that more men should be given maternity leave. So what is it you want to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172817	I just want to repeat that the government in autumn 2013 • where SF was also part of the government • based on an overall assessment made the decision that earmarking leave for fathers is not the best solution in Denmark. It was the three governing parties that made that decision. The government intends to look at this proposal when the time comes when we will have the opportunity to improve the situation. I also welcome the fact that in the collective bargaining in the public sector that has just been concluded there was a hand-out to fathers. And I am prepared to give the derogations that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172902	The next brief remark is from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172906	Now the Minister is referring to what the government decided on this issue when the SF was part of the government, but I do not think it is a secret that it was a case where the SF lost a power struggle to the Social Democracy and Radicals or who it was that we lost it to. I can at least say that it was not SFs in the government who wanted it to end up in this conclusion. It is also something that has been, what to say, a publicly known thing, that unfortunately there were quite a few power struggles in the then three-party government that the SF lost. So I think it's misleading to refer to this. I can see that my time is running out, so I'll let that be my first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217172958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173000	I do not know whether there really was a question in it. As far as I am concerned, that was a statement. I was not in those negotiations, I would like to acknowledge that I just note that it was a decision that was taken in autumn 2013 when there were three parties in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173019	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173022	I have then informed the Minister that the decision was against the SF, just as the SF was also a main force in getting it into the government programme when it was discussed. And there is the strange situation that there are parts of the government programme that are regarded as the Holy Scriptures, for example. for the benefit period. Finally, it must not be extended from the two years it has now, while there are other parts of the government programme, such as this about maternity leave earmarked for fathers, which one can erase. It has certainly been a great surprise in the SF that this was how it was connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173103	I think it might be hard to comment on this. Perhaps it also says something about which parties are governmentable and which are not, whether you are able to recognise the things that are decided in a government, I would say to Mr. Eigil Andersen. This has always been the case for all the time I have at least participated in the government. It has been such a little give and take when there are several parties involved, but I think it is wise to acknowledge what you decide when you are in a government, both what you think is really positive and what you may think is less positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173141	Thank you, Minister. There are no further comments right now. Then the first rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173155	Thank you. It is only eight months since I stood on the platform and expressed the Left's position on motion for a resolution. B-103 on earmarked maternity leave for fathers, and here we are again. Today we are discussing a re-submission of the proposal for earmarked maternity leave. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 48 is, in short, about the right of men and their mothers to maternity leave. The proposers want a phase-in to ensure that fathers and mothers are entitled to maternity leave for 12 weeks. If the father or mother does not use these, they shall lapse, but during the phase-in period there shall be the possibility that the unused weeks may be transferred to the mother. At the same time, it calls on the government to propose ways of making maternity legislation more gender-neutral, simple and transparent for citizens. Unlike the changing attitude of other parties to earmarked maternity leave for men, the Left has not changed its position. The Left says no because we do not think that we politicians should dictate how the Danish families of children distribute the barrage between themselves. That is why we were also pleased when the government broke their promise to earmark maternity leave for fathers, just as we are also pleased that, when we last had it, the resolution was not voted through. We in the Left would like more fathers to have part of their maternity leave, but we do not think that it is the politicians who should decide how the families should decide. With these words, I can only say that we do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173345	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173351	Thank you. I'm not surprised at all, I have to admit that. It is very interesting with the Left that they have no equality policy at all. That's pretty impressive. After all, however, we have an equal opportunities rapporteur. I'd like to hear something. The rapporteur says that we politicians should not decide how families should adapt, but is it not true that the Folketing actually decided that there should be maternity leave for women?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173421	What we do not want to decide is the very flexible system which the Danes are very pleased about, and I think the rapporteur himself knows that. They are actually very pleased that they can distribute it themselves. We do not want to interfere with, among other things. to sit down at the evening table with the family who just got a little one, and then sit down and tell who's gonna take how much of the barsel and how. We do not want to interfere in this as politicians. In fact, we think the individual family itself best knows this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173450	Özlem Sara Cekic for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173452	It would certainly be an overwork that would do something if all 179 members of parliament were to sit at the table with Mrs Denmark. That is not the intention at all. Parliament decides, I just want to say to the rapporteur. The Folketing decides to have maternity leave. The Folketing decides that men can get something, that women can get something. We have decided to do so politically from this point of view. But we are actually saying in this motion for a resolution that we have made it clear that we are earmarking something for men, but that what you do not use can be handed over. It's up to the families themselves. Is there a bad idea, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173533	Overall, we disagree that you have to get involved in this, and it's whether you call it a little bit or much. In our view, the proposal does not get any better from the fact that a phase-in period will be created, because after that phase-in period it will still be a deterioration of the present system, and that is what we are against.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173557	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173601	In 1984 a paternity leave of two weeks was introduced in connection with the birth of the child, and it was the case that in many men's jobs, for example in the metal industry, there was giggling by the men who took that maternity leave and they were almost regarded as weaklings, and that was absolutely meant as a derogatory term. This was the case in many men's jobs, and few took the two weeks' leave at the beginning. However, it developed as the years have passed and it has become increasingly accepted that men take the two weeks' paternity leave in connection with the birth of the child. It has been seen with my eyes and with SF's eyes very well in a gender perspective and in a gender perspective. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur sees a perspective in which legislation can help to shift some gender roles in a positive direction towards greater equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173706	As I said, I agree with the rapporteur that much has moved in the right direction with regard to men and maternity and the active participation of men in the home, etc., in the kitchen for that matter, with regard to cleaning, which we can continue to do, and that is clearly going the right way. We had a closed hearing in the Committee on Gender Equality, where I was involved and where we were actually told by a researcher that never have Danish men been more with their children. And today Danish fathers have the opportunity to take part of the maternity leave for the 32 weeks, so there is nothing in the legislation to prevent them from taking it. We do not want me to stress this as well, and this is the fourth time, I think, in my time as equal opportunities rapporteur, that I am on the platform for earmarked maternity leave and I repeat: we do not want to change the scheme; we think it is flexible and that it is good as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173810	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173812	I understand that we agree that the movement towards greater equality and the fact that men are more involved in things traditionally taken care of by women alone are a good move. What I meant by my example was that the amendment of the law, which consisted of reserving two weeks for the danger of the child's birth, helped to shift some gender roles. Then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not see that the parallel is that if you earmark maternity leave for the danger because there are not very many men taking part in maternity leave today, that is a relatively small figure, it will also help to shift gender roles further in the positive direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173858	For us, it's crucial that the family finds out, not that it's 50-50. It is crucial that the family, precisely the Danish family, find out what is best for it, how it can best pay off. Some also go in and look at the economic, that is, some do it for economic reasons, others do it for other reasons. But what is really in our legislation is that fathers today have the opportunity to take it. We have moved a lot with regard to gender roles and the view of gender roles. That's right. I also said in my speech that we would have liked more fathers to take maternity leave, but we do not want to use the legislation because, for us, the maternity scheme is, in fact, the child's, not the mother's or the father's. It's the baby's. And in the long run, it will be a deterioration in the maternity system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173946	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217173954	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party we are very happy when the father takes maternity leave. We also appreciate it when the mother takes maternity leave. In general, we are pleased with our maternity leave. It is good for children, for families and for equality in the labour market when men take a greater share of parental leave. We also have no doubt that the vast majority of fathers actually want to have more time than they do today, along with their newborns. At the same time, we are also aware that there are arguments both in favour and against amending maternity legislation and, for example, making an earmarking of parental leave. That's why the government also decided to leave the law as it is. This is something we have been debating a few times in this Chamber. However, this does not alter the fact that the Social Democratic Party still believes that a fairer distribution of maternity leave is something that will benefit all parties, and that is why I was also pleased when we recently saw that the industrial agreement for a quarter of a million employees gave the father an extra week's parental leave with pay. The agreement for state employees has now been followed. This means that for more people it will be economically possible, including for families, for the father to take more parental leave. This, of course, makes a concrete difference both to families and to equality. With regard to the desire for more gender-neutral and transparent legislation, I would like to say that this is one of the things we are already focusing on. We are working to ensure more equality in the public sector, so that women and men have equal opportunities in accessing and using our welfare services. To sum up, however, I would like to say that the Social Democrats do not support the proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174134	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174139	I would like to know what the position of the Socialists is: do you still advocate earmarking for maternity leave for men, or do you not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174151	The position of the Social Democratic Party is that which I express when I stand as rapporteur on behalf of the Social Democratic Party here in the Chair. So what I have said here is an expression of the position of the Social Democrat Party. And the Social Democrats are not in favour of this proposal, and the Social Democrats do not want to change our maternity legislation as it now stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174213	Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174215	That must be brand new. But I would like to hear: does the rapporteur share the view of the government that there is a desire for more men to have maternity leave, and what will be done? So what is the policy of the Social Democrats in this area? I understand that this is no good, that the earmarking of maternity leave is no go. And to say that some of it is earmarked and that other things can be handed over to the woman is not an option either. Is there anything else you want to do, campaigns, what do I know? What is the policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174254	To answer the first question from the SF's rapporteur, I would say: yes, the Social Democrats share the desire for fathers to have more maternity leave. I tried to write a rapporteur's speech which expressed it, and that was also what I read just now, when I said on a number of occasions that we think it is very good that fathers too should have parental leave. We think it is good for the family that it is good for the danger, for the child, for the mother and for society in general. We do not want to change the legislation as it is now, but we believe that, of course, legislation can move things forward. This is not just true here, it is true in general. But there are also other things that can make things move, for example. how public authorities communicate to parents when drawing attention to their rights. Many other areas where communication from the public sector is concerned can also help push a movement into action.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174350	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Socialists. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174400	Thank you. After all, the earmarked maternity leave for men is not a new proposal. I have been looking and can see that one of the current government, Radical Left and Social Democracy, and SF and Enhedslisten have been put forward back in 2006. It was rejected on 30 May 2006. So again in 2013 we got the proposal from Enhedslisten. In 2014, we got it from the Socialist People's Party, and we will get it again. I took a reprint of my speech from the last time, and then I thought that it was just before I could read it again, because nothing new has happened, not even with regard to the position of the Danish People's Party. It has not changed, the majority has not changed. We in the Danish People's Party are very happy about this, because this means that the maternity scheme that we have now, and which we are actually very pleased with, is being preserved. I think, as I said last year when we had the case in Parliament, that it is so good to hear the governing parties, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left now that we have not yet heard the rapporteur from the Radical Left go up and use the same arguments that we from the bourgeois side have been using for many years. Then you sit and think that it's nice that some people have suddenly been able to see the light. That's the way it is. But our position in the Danish People's Party has not changed. We think that the arrangements we have for maternity leave are quite excellent. We think it's out of the family, the decision has to be made. It is out in the family that you know your financial capacity, where you know what your employment relationship is, etc. etc., all of these conditions that are now true when you have children and when you have to deal with the financial situation you are in when you have a child. So no, not earmarked maternity for men. This decision lies well with the family, we think in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174609	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174610	I'm not surprised, it's nothing new. But there's actually something new in this proposal. I have not put forward the same proposal 'no', in fact I have not, although much of it is similar to the old one. But there is actually a very big and crucial difference, because I have listened to the objections from the last time: you want the families to decide for themselves. That is why I am saying that we could earmark some maternity leave for men, and if it is that they do not take it, then families can now decide for themselves that it should be handed over. Is that a bad idea, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174649	At least I don't see the point of it. I'll be honest with you. Because if, as a man in the small home, you want to have some maternity leave very, very much, frankly, I think that the discussion belongs within the four walls of the home and not here. It's not up to somebody else to decide. I know that there are apparently some who think that men are so big vatnisses that they cannot have that discussion at home, so we should decide that, because then they will have the court. But I do not consider men to be, and I hope that is not the case either. So I think they can take the discussion out at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174724	Özlem Sara Cekic for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174726	This must mean that the rapporteur believes that it is simply a matter of sitting at home and deciding on it. The rapporteur recognizes that there may also be some other things involved in that resolution, for example. If these rights also help to pave the way for agreements, then pay will follow in this way? Because it's really hard for a family to decide that the danger, for example. must be at home with the child, knowing that this will mean a reduction in income. Does the rapporteur recognise that this can also be important?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174808	Yes, I do, and I think I also mentioned that in my speech, that is why I believe that the decision is so well in the family, because it is only the family who knows its financial capacity that knows the employment conditions and the contractual relationships under which each individual member of the family is employed, whether it is a co-mother or a father or whatever. Then you know exactly what the situation is within the four walls of the home, and that is why the decision must of course also be there. As far as the transfer of maternity leave is concerned, I can read from the proposal that it should be such a transitional arrangement. Of course, the SF does this because it is well aware that when you were in government, you could not just find money. At any rate, it was not desirable to go out and tell the women who take the 32 weeks' maternity leave that they just got 12 weeks less, because that would have been the case if maternity were earmarked at the time. That was the proposal at the time. So what you do now is you say: Well then we earmark it, but you can still get a little choice within the four walls of your home. And that's ridiculous. Then they have the fine opportunity they have today, and I think that should be preserved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174916	Sir. Eigil Andersen, first brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217174920	I sometimes wonder what the Danish People's Party's social vision really is. In time, I have probably formed a perception that it is possible to dream back to the 1950s and some idyllic idea a la Morten Korch with stoves and farms and a very effective border control, while many of the things that have happened in today's modern society are not at all something that the Danish People's Party likes. You'd like us to be isolated from the outside world. That is the picture that I have of it, and there I say to myself that, according to my concepts, it is probably equally old-fashioned. What I want to ask in this context is what is the gender equality policy of the Danish People's Party? Is it really the case that the Danish People's Party dreams back to the 1950s, where the woman was at home cooking and caring for the children while the husband worked outside the home? Is this the dream of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175022	I don't think so, after all. But may I not start by saying that yes, we want border controls. In fact, we want to preserve Denmark. Can't I also say that I think the cane roses are lovely? Then it may well be that border controls and stozoses are linked to the 1950s. Well, that's gotta stand for Mr. Knox. Eigil Andersen's own bill. But now I don't, and I have it at home... so not border controls, but the Totrosians. That's what it is. I would just like to say that when we talk about equality in the Danish People's Party, we are talking about equal opportunities. And I actually think we have that as a woman and as a man in today's Denmark. It's not about millimeter justice, and that everything has to be completely equal. It is not equality, because I consider us to be individuals and different. I know there are some who want to standardise us completely and make us so-called gender-neutral, which in my view is a terrible word. I'm not gender-neutral, I'm a woman, and I'd like to be a woman for the rest of my life.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175131	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175134	We all agree that cane roses are beautiful. So that is not where the political disagreement is. I understand that what the Danish People's Party really thinks about equality is very much resolved. And that's obviously not something you want to do. I would like to repeat my example, which I also used with regard to one of the previous rapporteurs, namely the 1984 example in which two weeks' maternity leave for men was introduced by legislation, and over a few decades it helped to shift men's attitude towards being at home with their newborn child. Can the rapporteur see a perspective in which legislation and also earmarking for maternity could further shift the gender roles that exist in Danish society towards more equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175220	Firstly, I do not accept the premise that it provides more equality. That is a premise, as Mr. Eigil Andersen is running. Secondly, we in the Danish People's Party regard equality as equal opportunities, and we actually think that it exists very, very many places. There are some small places where it can be done better, but you have equal opportunities in Denmark as a woman and as a man, and that is our expression of equality. The example of two weeks' leave is quite an excellent example, but when the rapporteur said it, I remembered that back in the 1970s there were also men lying on the maternity wards and aching because the woman was in labor. I don't know how much equality it gave. I thought it was a joke, but it was a joke back then too. I don't know how much it moved in terms of equality. It had nothing to do with legislation, but there were just a lot of things going on 20-30 years ago that are not happening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175324	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, Enhedslisten. I have just become aware that the Socialist rapporteur also spoke on behalf of the Radicals. Here you go, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175343	In fact, it is a fantastic story that is behind this very good proposal, which has been put forward by three SFs. It started under the former government, where the old opposition, the Social Democratic Party, the Radicals, the SF and us in the Enhedslisten agreed on a proposal for earmarked maternity leave for men. All the parties behind it had arguments about equality between men and women in the labour market. As the current government included the proposal in their government base, it should be a matter of form to implement it. But what did the Social Democrats, the Radicals and the SF say about it when, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I put forward the proposal at the end of 2012? As a surprise, they voted against it. As I said, the Minister for Employment had set up a committee which barred with a report in the summer of 2013. It was a good report which did not take a final position on this political proposal, but no matter what, we were all waiting for a bill to be tabled on earmarked maternity leave for fathers. But for inscrutable reasons, the Minister put this proposal in the trash and made another proposal on what was called maternity bonus. On the side of the Enhedslisten, after protesting against the Minister's tail between his legs, we said that we would like to negotiate with the government on this. After two or three meetings, it ran into the sand, so nothing came out of it. After all, we have a motion for a resolution from the SF, which mainly deals with 12 weeks of earmarked maternity leave for fathers and co-mothers. I think it is good that the SF now has no excuse for rejecting our proposal after 11⁄2 years. This is probably due to the resignation of the SF from the government, but no matter what the reason for this is, all we have to do is get our old soldiers from equality, the government parties Social Democracy and the Radicals on board. After all, the proposal is about phasing in earmarked maternity leave for men. I think it is okay that we should phase it in so that families can adapt to the law and, above all, that the agreement should also take account of the new rules. So I do not think there are any arguments for voting against those who claim that they are in favour of equality in the labour market. Furthermore, I think it is good that the proposal is also about the government making maternity legislation so that it becomes more gender-neutral and more transparent for citizens. After all, I have listened to the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Employment, who has defended himself in countless consultations. They claim that earmarked maternity leave for men means that much fewer maternity weeks are taken. The fact is that the two ministers have not become wiser today than they have been for many years. They have simply changed their minds and this means that they have fled the struggle for equality in the labour market. I have already said that the proposal will be a huge step forward for equality for both men and women and, above all, for their young children. After all, as politicians, we must take our policy seriously. I would therefore like to say to the government rapporteurs that they should take it more seriously to work to ensure that we can and must implement the resolution. All in all, I would say that we in Enhedslisten stand cargo and burst and shoulder to shoulder with SF in the fight for more equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175720	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175729	The motion for a resolution by the SF which we are now debating is a proposal that the SF has made a long time ago and there is then a persistence in putting it forward again. I understand. I also understand that, in the SF, they have been disappointed that the proposal they had at one point in common with the government has been dropped. I understand. So I understand that the SF is resubmitting this proposal in amazement that the government no longer supports it. At the same time, however, we in the Liberal Alliance have also been in the same position for a long time, namely that the maternity leave that we provide for families should be free to organise between mother and father. Families are completely different, and it is not we who in here from the platform are to organise how the bar should be held. Having said that, I think that maternity leave for fathers is fantastic and I would recommend it to anyone. It is very good for the relationship to learn to understand what it means to care for a small child and what it is like to go to work while the other takes care of the child. It is simply an excellent idea, but just because something is an excellent idea, it does not have to be the case that you legislate on it. That is what the Liberal Alliance's position is on earmarked maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175913	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The last rapporteur in the series of speeches is Charlotte Dyremose from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217175922	In the Conservative People's Party, too, we have the position that we have long held, namely that we will not stand in here and dictate who is holding how much maternity leave when. In fact, we think it is an excellent opportunity for families to organise the small matter themselves to a large extent. It is wonderful to be on maternity leave; it is also wonderful to have a spouse on maternity leave, and I can tell all families that both parties are trying. But I don't want to dictate to the families that the partout is the way to do it. There may be many reasons why you want to do things in a certain way in a particular family, and we do not want to interfere in that. This does not mean that we think it is a bad idea for men to go on maternity leave or that we do not think that women and men should have equal opportunities, as some make it sound like. It just means that, frankly, we believe that equality is much more than legislation and a tight rigid framework dictating the way in which families deal with their own situation. So we think it is excellent that there is no majority in favour of this, and that is why we can be tempted to praise the government for this, which I think is one of the most excellent promises the government has made. I think that's really nice, and I'm quite sure there are many families who benefit from it, because then they can organize their daily life with young children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217180056	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217180120	Thank you. This is a re-submission of our resolution from the past, with the big difference that we say that we can do so, that we earmark 3 months' maternity leave for men, but that the weeks that are not spent during the phase-in period can be handed over to the mother, and there you can decide that the phase-in period can be 5 years, 10 years, or whatever, but it is just to be able at least to get started. Mothers and fathers are parents on an equal footing and must have real opportunities to be. But we are still far from equalizing parenthood. Fathers still only take 7-8 per cent. of the total leave on maternity leave. There are still a number of barriers for fathers who would like to take a longer leave during the child's first life, both in relation to the attitude in workplaces where there is no tradition of fathers using parental leave and in relation to the contractual opportunities of fathers, which means that they often have less opportunities for paid leave than mothers have. In order to ensure a modern maternity and parental leave that matches modern family life, there is a need to equalise fathers and ensure more gender-neutral legislation. In the current maternity leave, 14 weeks after birth are reserved for the mother, in addition to 4 weeks before birth, while only 2 weeks are reserved for the father or co-mother. By earmarking part of parental leave for fathers, we will be able to strengthen the rights of fathers and improve women's opportunities in the labour market. At the same time, it will pave the way for more equal pay and equal rights. Earmarking can be done by gradual phasing-in over a few years, both in terms of the number of weeks and in terms of the possibility of transferring unused maternity leave to the mother so that parents can adapt to new opportunities. It is important that collective workers in both the private and the public sectors should be able to agree on an ongoing basis on the right to pay during the leave. Therefore, a phasing-in of paternity leave must take account of existing agreements with regard to earmarking and be done in a way that enables the parties to secure leave rights to the danger and to adapt the pattern of leave in collective bargaining to the new legislation. Fathers must be guaranteed better rights so that they have a really free choice to be able to hold the bar with their child. They should not be discredited at work for their choices, but should have the right to be part of their children's upbringing from the start. Studies show that the tradition of men keeping maternity at work is very important for men's choices in terms of maternity. Fathers must be ensured a greater role in the child's upbringing from the outset, so that they naturally become a more integral part of children's upbringing than is the case today, for the joy and benefit of children who gain better access to mother and father. Children must have the right to be with both their parents from the start of their upbringing. It is therefore necessary to give parents equal opportunities for maternity after birth. It is essential that families can organise their own leave. That freedom should be strengthened by maintaining a long period of free parental distribution and by making parental access to leave equal. Unfortunately, however, I can count and see how many seats there are. There has been an exceptional opportunity for this to happen because both S, SF, Radical Left and Enhedslisten have made proposals on this in the past. Unfortunately, it has to be said that this is a historic opportunity that is once again missed, and the question is when that opportunity will come again. I would also like to thank you for the debate, which is unfortunately a little depressing. It is a little sad to hear that in this way men will not be guaranteed more rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217180520	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one wanted short remarks, and the debate has therefore ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. If no objection is expressed, it shall be deemed adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217180539	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 19 February 2015. The first is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217180611	We are talking about some problems in the labour market, namely that people are being hurt too much. It is about people who every day meet at work in pain or do not come to work because they have suffered an occupational injury. More than 40,000 suffer an accident at work every year and more than 20,000 are reported to an occupational disease. That is why I think it is good to have a specific objective to reduce the number of people who are injured at work. After all, the objectives are 25 per cent. fewer serious accidents at work, 20 per cent. fewer mentally overloaded and 20 per cent. less with muscle and skeletal overload until 2020. Unfortunately, it is a long way to achieve the objectives, not least when we talk about the psychological overloads. After all, there has been an almost explosive increase in the psychic field, and unfortunately far too few people are recognised for their psychological injury to work. I think the Minister will do something about it, but the question is whether the Minister has any effective means of reducing mental overload. The fact is that the labour market has changed over the last few decades, not least that has meant that people get more insecurity in their work. For example: the length of benefits has been reduced. Some say that it hurts the unemployed, yes, it does, but on top of that it means that people at work become even more nervous about losing their jobs. I believe that the government should find out what is happening in the new labour market. With this introduction, I will listen with interest to the reply from the Minister and hope that together we can find some effective solutions in relation to the working environment by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217180803	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Minister for Employment's turn to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217180814	The Enhedslisten wishes to discuss the objectives in the field of health and safety with this enquiry debate and, more precisely, how the government will achieve the objective of its efforts towards 2020. I think there is reason to start by saying that we in Denmark basically have a good working environment. Most Danes can safely and safely go to work. Even if we measure it on an international scale, we are fortunately far ahead of many other countries. We must safeguard that, and I think we should also be proud of it. But we must also note that we are not yet in the finish line. Unfortunately, there are still too many people who are sick or injured because of their work and, as Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr said there are too large numbers. For example, last year, unfortunately, 37 people lost their lives at work and 41,000 accidents were reported to the Labour Inspectorate, and about one in six of them, or approx. 6,500, was so serious that it unfortunately led to a longer illness absence. We also know that there are, among other things: in selected areas, major challenges remain, with serious deterioration of the workforce. It is therefore important to give priority to both serious occupational accidents and the psychological and physical working environment. That is also why we have agreed on the objectives of the 2020 Working Environment Strategy, which I am pleased that a very large majority in the Danish Parliament is behind. Here we have set some, I think, good but also ambitious targets for the working environment in Denmark, where the proportion of employees who suffer a serious accident at work has to be reduced by 25%, and the proportion of employees with physical and mental overload in both cases has to be reduced by 20%. The question then is, of course, how we are achieving the objectives that we have set ourselves in the 2020 strategy. It is a question of the first measurements showing that I would like to stress that these are the first measurements that we are actually on the right track, but there are five years to go before we reach 2020. In relation to physical overload, the results show that we are on the right track, as there has been a happy drop of approx. 12% I think that is a positive figure to achieve over a short period of time. In relation to accidents, it is also going the right way. There's a 4% drop here.; it is not so great a fall, yes, but positive. When it comes to the psychological working environment, we have also received new figures. Unfortunately, there has been an immediate increase of just over 4%, but I also think it should be known that the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work says that these changes are not necessarily significant. In other words, there is no statistical certainty about this figure. I take note of the fact that we cannot see a fall and, unfortunately, it seems that we still have a task to do to reverse that trend. I think it is important to focus on this. It is important for me to stress that this is an initial measurement and it is therefore too early to say whether the figures will continue to go up or down. Actually, we don't know yet. But when we arrive at the beginning of 2017, the next measurement comes, and then we can say with greater certainty whether we are on the right track and whether our joint efforts have borne fruit. Enhedslisten asks how the government will meet the objectives of the work environment. I will briefly outline what the government has already done and describe a number of the initiatives that we have agreed together. Firstly, the government and the Enhedslisten with the 2013 Finance Act have given a global boost to the OSH area, and this was especially true of the psychological working environment. There are, among other things: an agreement was reached that an annual allocation of EUR 15 million should be made up to and including 2015; kr. to carry out a supervisory effort in the field of mental health and safety at work. Second, the government, SF and the Enhedslisten for the Finance Act for 2015 have agreed to extend that effort. We have therefore set aside 77 million together. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). should be used to continue the special supervisory efforts of the Labour Inspectorate against wear and tear due to the psychological working environment. Third, in June 2014, the Government and Enhedslisten agreed on a number of initiatives to prevent poor mental health and safety at work. There are, among other things: funding for a new prevention package for hospitals. Fourthly, the Labour Inspectorate has set up a hotline on bullying and sexual harassment, to which everyone can call for guidance on prevention and management on these two important issues. Fifthly, we are also taking action against wear and tear. A total of 14 million has been set aside. kr. over a 3-year period for the development of technical aids to reduce physical wear and tear in the worn-out industries. Sixthly, the government has allocated funds from 2012 to 2015 to reduce the number of accidents in the construction industry. Seventhly, the government has set aside 2 million. kr. annually in the years from 2013 to 2015 to implement an action plan against accidents at work in the building industry with 50 different initiatives prepared by the social partners and representatives of the Danish Construction and Labour Inspectorate. Finally, I also think that there is reason to highlight the initiative aimed at preventing accidents at work among apprentices in the construction industry. We know that many apprentices often get hurt because they do not use safe working methods and do not have experience in seeing how wrong things can actually go. In other words, the government has to a large extent, among other things. together with SF and Enhedslisten, launched a number of very good efforts on prevention. I think that is important. It is also important for me to say that the government's efforts cannot stand alone. It is just as important as the fact that the government itself prevents wear and tear and accidents, that employers and supervisors in the workplace ensure that jobs are both healthy and safe. Achieving the objectives requires a great deal of effort from all those who participate in the whole area. The social partners, the Working Environment Council, the Industry Environment Councils, must also contribute. How do we achieve the 2020 targets? As I said, when it comes to developments in accidents at work and physical overload, it looks positive. I think we can say that we are on the right track, but it is important that we continue to use resources optimally and continue to focus on reducing the number of accidents at work and also physical congestion. There is no reason to rest on the laurels, we must move on. When it comes to the figures for the evolution of stress in the psychological working environment, it is clear that I had also hoped for a better result, but we must face up to the fact that we are living in a time of many changes in the labour market, and they are obviously putting the psychological working environment under pressure. The effort needed to solve the problems of mental health and safety often seems to me to be more complex and perhaps also to have a longer perspective than so many other health and safety problems. Therefore, it may also take time to turn the ship around and perhaps also see measurable results from the effort. As far as the results of the first measurements are concerned, as I said, we still have five years to go, and the initiatives that the government has put into the sea have not yet reaped all the fruitage. There are several initiatives that have been launched in 2013 and that we do not yet see the full impact of. This is true, for example. the particular supervisory role in the psychological working environment. It is my clear expectation that coordinated and joint action in this area will produce results, and the government will do even more to strengthen efforts for a better mental working environment. I believe that the work of the Labour Inspectorate in the future should be given even greater priority where the need is greatest. I think the social partners also agree with this. Efforts must concentrate on those companies which have the greatest problems with the working environment, and that is as the figures show, among other things. the psychological working environment. I believe that the Factory Inspectorate should be closer to those companies with the greatest challenges, and therefore more supervisory visits should be planned according to conditions that increase the risk of the poor working environment. This also applies to the poor psychological working environment. Healthy employees who thrive at their workplace improve the possibility of increased productivity and positive figures on the bottom line of companies. That's something we all know. But there are also companies that speculate in the opposite way. They constantly pressure their employees to deliver faster and more and force them to compromise their safety and health. This also affects the psychological working environment. That is why, in my view, companies that repeatedly violate health and safety rules must be penalised more severely. I shall not fail to say that I am pleased with the constructive dialogue I have had with the social partners in recent times. I am also pleased that at our meeting in September last year, I received the support of the OSH community to reopen the OSH conciliation and enter into dialogue with the social partners. My expectations are that the government will shortly be able to come up with a new proposal which we will then be able to discuss in the conciliation circle. I am sure that together we will achieve a good result. At the same time, I do not think there can be any doubt that the government has taken and continues to take its task very seriously. As I have mentioned, we have taken a number of steps to achieve our 2020 targets, and now we need to make sure that those targets also work. I will, of course, keep the Employment Committee informed of the common challenges we face in terms of working conditions in general. I think that the Parliament as a whole, the conciliation circle in particular, has taken on the task and done it in a proper and serious way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217181750	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first person to speak is the rapporteur for the questions put by the honourable Member. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217181806	Thank you to the Minister for his reply and also thank you for his praise for the cooperation with SF and Enhedslisten. I would like to say that, from the very first time we discussed a specific objective ten years ago, I said that an objective was very good, but that it was a blow in the air when there were no tools to achieve the specific objectives. After all, it is a major objective that the government, together with the previous government, has said that 25% must happen. less serious accidents, be 20%. less mentally overloaded as well as 20%. less with muscle and skeletal overloads until 2020. As I have also said, the tools have been reduced in relation to the major objectives. After all, we know that the working environment is about the specific jobs. But under the old government, cuts were made, not least when BST and safety representatives were abolished in the small jobs with between five and ten employees. If we look today at the interim evaluation, we can look at the development of the provisional figures. It is a large study, working environment and health in Denmark, carried out by the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work, of muscle and skeletal overloads, mental overloads and serious accidents. The preliminary figures show a very slight decrease in serious accidents and a decrease in muscle and skeletal overloads and a marked increase in mental overloads. It does not look very good in relation to the objectives, and it gets worse when we compare the survey with the figures from the Factory Inspectorate. When we look at the figures from the Labour Inspectorate on reviews of muscle and skeletal overloads, we see that there has not been a decrease, but a marked increase from approximately 5,200 in 2011 to 7,100 in 2013. I would like to ask the Minister why these figures stand against each other. I hope that this can be explained by the fact that the Labour Inspectorate's figures are misleading, but I am very surprised. Whatever the case, there is a figure that is luminous, namely the figure for the psychological overloads. It has largely exploded over the last 15 years, and it has not improved when it comes to how many people get their psychic disorders recognised because of work. Only 5%. get their damage recognised when we talk about the psychological work environment. We know that this is primarily about the public labour market, so that it falls back on public employers. I can guess some factors that we know can lead to mental illness such as stress, etc. This is about increasing pressure on public employees, for example. teachers, educators and nurses in line with greater demands on their work. And it is also about those who are exposed to invitations to tender, which give insecurity as to whether or not they might lose their jobs after the new invitation to tender. Together with the government and the SF, we have ensured that the funds in the Prevention Fund are now targeted at the most heavily burdened industries. That is good enough, not least when we have an evaluation that says that too much money under the old government was spent on things that were of no use. But now we should spend the last money on, among other things. to try to ensure the major objectives of the working environment by 2020. I believe that we in the Folketing must help to improve the working environment, not least by giving those who go to work every day the best conditions to ensure healthy and safe work. Finally, I would like to stress that an ever-increasing problem is social dumping. This is not just about ridiculous wages, but also about people who are injured in their work because their employer does nothing for their work environment. Following this, on behalf of Eigil Andersen from the SF and myself from the Enhedslisten, I will read out the following: Proposals for adoption • Bad working conditions cost the affected employees dearly on life, mobility and reduced work capacity. In addition, poor working conditions cost billions of kroner for both society and companies. The Danish Parliament recognises the Government's objectives for the work on working conditions up to 2020 and we recognise the targeting of the Prevention Fund since 2011. There have been fewer muscle and skeletal overloads and a slight decrease in serious accidents 2011-12, but it is uncertain whether the latter is a trend. Unfortunately, however, there is a long way to go before the objectives are met. The proportion of people with mental stress in employment has not fallen, but on the contrary has risen alarmingly. We therefore call on the government to give priority to efforts and to invite the Industry Working Environment Councils and the main labour market organisations to negotiate in order to achieve a better working environment in all areas, including through necessary regulatory constraints on the part of the state. Against this background, the government is invited to present an adjusted action plan which makes it realistic to achieve the 2020 objectives, including: mental health and safety at work. • V 24).
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182319	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let's get to work on the list of speakers. The first is the rapporteur on the Left, Peter Juel Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182341	Thank you, President. No one should get sick from going to work, and everyone should experience a good working environment. This should be the case, and that is the objective of our joint work on working conditions. We have practically a good working environment, but it needs to get better. The Left is part of the broad majority behind the 2020 objectives for the working environment, and we have noted that we are on our way to achieving the very ambitious objectives that are part of the agreement. However, we are not in the end, and that is why we must continue to focus on the working environment. In the agreement on better working conditions, we have come some way, but as I said, we are not in the end, and therefore we should also focus our efforts more on where we know that the working environment has the greatest challenges. The Minister has just called a meeting of the Conciliation Committee, and from the Left we expect the Labour Inspectorate to give much more priority to the work where the challenges are greatest. The Left supports the government's proposal for adoption, and my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will do so. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, read in his rapporteur's speech shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182504	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182510	The rapporteur of the Left says that action should be taken where health and safety problems are greatest. It is, it may be said, a thinking that we can understand. What I would like to ask is: if this is a poor psychological working environment, how do you find out in advance where it is worst? It can happen in any workplace, and the work place which today has a good psychological working environment may not have it next month. So how should we identify those companies that have a poor mental health and safety environment and where the Factory Inspectorate should intensify their visits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182553	Yeah, well, that's what you do through the safety organization at work, that's through the health and safety organisation. There you can see how the working environment is doing. Some meetings are being held at the individual workplace, and there is, of course, a dialogue on this. What the rapporteur from the SF has to write behind his ear is that we can help draw a framework here, we can help to climb the track, but it is not in here that the working environment is limping. It is not in here that accidents at work happen, it is out at the individual workplace. Therefore, we have chalked up the track in such a way that we have said that there must be a working environment organisation. We have outlined some rules of the game and we must make sure that the rules are played according to the rules in the individual workplace so that we have a better working environment in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182644	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182646	I understand that it is the rapporteur's view that it should then be the safety organisation at the workplace that should send for the Factory Inspectorate. The employers' side will probably not send a bid to be checked by the Labour Inspectorate. I do not think that would normally be the case, but it may be that from the B side, as it is called, we will do so, in other words, the health and safety representatives of employees. But what I want to ask the rapporteur now is something else. There is a good success, I think, concerning the hotline set up by the Labour Inspectorate in terms of bullying and sexual harassment. Could it be an idea that the Factory Inspectorate also set up a hotline that could be called if there are problems with the psychological environment in the workplace?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182726	I'd like to start somewhere else. I also believe that the rapporteur from the SF heard the speech that the Minister has just made. I find that both the A and B sides of the labour market are very concerned about solving this. I think we are all pleased that our working environment in the companies is working, and when I talk to employers and workers, I sense that this challenge is taken very seriously and wants to solve it. So, as I said before: we have kicked up the track, we have said which rules to follow, but it is not from in here that we make sure that workman Pedersen remembers to put on his hearing protectors and the helmet on his head when he goes to the construction site. It's out of the locals to secure it. We have said that he must, we have told employers that they must ensure, and then it is out there that the problem will be solved. In here we have a clear expectation that things will be observed. With regard to how much the hotlines work, I have also noted that this may be a way of doing so, but I will now wait for the negotiations that the Minister has with the parties, because if we are going to achieve the very ambitious objectives we have, it will therefore require interaction with the parties. We cannot sit and dictate things in here, no matter how much the rapporteur from the SF would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182848	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182851	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. After all, we have to say something about the previous government, because when we talk about the objectives, the question is: what happened under the previous government? The number of serious accidents increased by 500 from 4,800; the number of muscle/skeletal diseases increased from 6,200 to 6,800; in the psychic field, the reviews increased from 1,420 to 3,890. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: what has the Left made of health and safety proposals after the government has changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217182938	Thank you. Well, we're part of the working environment circle behind the 2020 goals... that's our health and safety strategy. And as the Minister explained in his speech, this is something that we can see has a positive effect and we see the figures falling. So it has had a positive effect. However, the rapporteur cannot simply tear things out of context. The rapporteur must be aware that just before the elections, when the opposition was not constructive, there was full steam under the boilers in Denmark. There were many more people on the labour market, perhaps some who did not quite meet the various requirements now being made to fulfil the function they were assigned to. Therefore, it might perhaps be that the number of accidents increased slightly there. What is the challenge here is that we should both have a good working environment when things go a little slowly, but that we should also have a good working environment when there is a little more pressure on the boilers. That is why we have a strategy to improve our working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183046	The second brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183048	That is, of course, the answer, because I can give you all the examples of how the working environment has gone back under the old government. That is why I would like to ask: when the objective is to be achieved, can we do so if we do not put forward any proposals? So I just want to ask whether the Left would like to enter into a constructive dialogue, not least when we talk about the psychological working environment? Why is there no proposal from the Left in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183124	The whole strategy for the 2020 plan for working conditions was drawn up under the previous government. That's where these objectives were set, that's where the negotiations took place. At the time, nothing was seen about the Enhedslisten, and neither do we today. The Enhedslisten is not among the parties that support this, who want a better working environment in Denmark. The unitary list will stand outside and shout in, but you won't take responsibility. Is that enough for the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183154	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next in line is mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as rapporteur for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183206	Thank you. I would like to start by signing for Enhedslisten to focus on the working environment with this enquiry debate. I would also like to thank the Minister for the thorough briefing on the Government's work on working conditions. There is no doubt that this is a matter of great concern to the Socialists and myself personally. Here in the Danish Parliament we have a very important task in developing and ensuring a world-class working environment. For the Socialists, it is absolutely crucial that it is safe, safe and healthy to go to work, no matter what you work with, no matter where it is in the country. That is why it is good that we have the opportunity today to put the working environment on the agenda, and I look forward to a good debate in this Chamber. Most Danes are actually happy to go to work. It makes sense, it brings prosperity, and it also gives quality of life. That is why we are also a major part of our life in the labour market, and we will count on it to be even more years in the future. And it requires that the conditions under which we work are in order. Therefore, the government has also taken steps in the right direction towards a better working environment. We've got about 1 billion targeted. kr. from the Prevention and Maintenance Fund to ten initiatives to improve the working environment, one half of which aims to prevent physical and mental wear and the other half to maintain more in the labour market. We have also looked at the cracks of modern working life. For example, we have focused on the working environment in connection with young people taking a summer job, and we have put forward legislative proposals to counter the recurring tendency to experience work-related violence and threats in their spare time. And we support ongoing research on the working environment. By 2015 at the latest, we have provided funds for a better working environment and, at the same time, we have taken a tough stance on social dumping, which also has an impact on the working environment. Many foreign companies come to Denmark in these years, but not all of them comply with the Danish safety rules. And not all foreign employees in Denmark work on terms that meet Danish standards. That is why we will also focus on that particular part of the labour market in the future. In other words, we have taken many steps in the right direction towards a better working environment, but the work does not stop here, of course. That is why the 2020 strategy for a better working environment, which we are debating today, is important because it sets ambitious targets for a better working environment by reducing the amount of serious accidents at work and mental overloads. And when it comes to muscle and skeleton overload, the strategy sets in where it is most needed. The 2020 strategy is therefore an essential tool for creating a better working environment in Denmark. It is important that we keep up with each other so that we also achieve our goals, and that is why, as I said, it is good that we have the opportunity today to put the working environment on the agenda. For the Socialists, it is absolutely crucial that we always strive for better and healthier working conditions, and I would like to make that clear with seven inches nails. And the 2020 strategy for a better working environment, adopted by a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, is just the right way to go. In those words, I would like to read out the following (on behalf of V, S, DF, RV and KF): Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that it should be safe, safe and healthy to go to work. A broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties (V, S, DF, RV and K) agreed in 2011 on a strategy for working conditions efforts up to 2020. The strategy sets out objectives for the main health and safety problems. By 2020 there will be 25 per cent fewer serious accidents at work. Twenty percent less mentally overloaded. 20 percent fewer with muscle and skeletal overloads. The Danish Parliament notes that we are well on the way to achieving the 2020 objectives for the working environment, the figures show that there are fewer employees who experience a serious accident at work and fewer employees with physical overloads, the figures also show that there is still a task to reduce the proportion of employees with mental overloads, and a number of initiatives have been taken in relation to improving the work environment. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183705	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183714	First of all, I will probably have to comment on the statement by the rapporteur of the Left. I will then try to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether it is not true that after the government has arrived, the Enhedslisten has helped to take a billion kroner from the Prevention Fund: 75 million. kr. A year against social dumping, not least when we talk about working conditions. And, like the last one, it is not true that we have also made sure that the Labour Inspectorate is not cut back in 2016, but added 77 million. kr., not from the government, but from the Enhedslisten. I would like to ask Lennart Damsbo-Andersen if it is not true that the government's draft Finance Act contained savings at the Labour Inspectorate. I would very much like to know if it is not true that we must ensure that the Factory Inspectorate can function in the future too. So I hope that it will not be repeated to the next Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183828	I would like to start by saying that it is true, in relation to the Finance Act, that fewer people were proposed in the paper in the Labour Inspectorate. It was because of the fact that there were a number of agreements which expired here during the turn of the year, that is to say the agreements that were there. That is why I am also really pleased that it was possible for us and the government to make an agreement with both SF and Enhedslisten to get funds added again and then get them targeted the excellent activities that Enhedslisten's rapporteur also points out here. Because we are very concerned that the working environment should be good, and I am very pleased that Enhedslisten and also SF share the same view in terms of having funds allocated to both prevention and the fight against social dumping, which we have then jointly had the opportunity to get into the budget law for 2015 and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183922	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183924	Following that, I would say that I find it strange. After all, the government we have now has carried out some things together with the SF and the Enhedslisten, and then a proposal is made for adoption along with the other parties. What does the proposal for adoption say? There is an objective, but what does it say about funds? I would like to know whether there are any means of achieving this objective together with the old government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217183957	After all, this is not a question of who is in government. It's a deal in a conciliation circle. In this conciliation group, funds have been set aside for the work which the Danish Labour Inspectorate is to do in a wide range of areas. As far as I am aware, we are talking about 19 areas of action where funds have been allocated to pursue the objectives that are in relation to it. After all, the agreement we have made in connection with the Finance Act contains things that go beyond what is in the 2020 agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184029	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184034	I think it is very important for social democracy too that we improve the psychological working environment. And there it is interesting what we can do more than today. One problem is, for example, that the Factory Inspectorate is not allowed to make decisions on all aspects of the mental health and safety at work according to the rules in force. There are parts of the psychological working environment which have been decided upon under the employer's right to direct and distribute work and which are prohibited by the Factory Inspectorate. There I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Social Democratic Party agrees that it would be a good idea to look at this area and extend the powers of the Labour Inspectorate to take decisions in the whole field of mental health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184126	First of all, I'd like to apologize to Mr. Eigil Andersen, because I came to mention SF in connection with the proposal for adoption, but it seemed so natural because I know that a strong heart is burning for the working environment at SF and at Mr. Eigil Andersen. So it came naturally into this context, but I regret that. In relation to the question itself, I would say that the fact that we now have an eye on the psychological working environment is quite new, one might say, in relation to the working environment at all. It is only last year that we arrived at an equality and equivalence of the mental and physical working environment. I mean, we're moving on a track where we haven't been in the past to find out: Where is it really hurting? And therefore, it may also be difficult to find out what means to use both to find out where there is a poor mental working environment and also what to do about it. It is my impression that we are in a search at the moment, and that we clarify it along the way. You can almost say that we change wheels while we drive, in order to find out how to proceed with that effort. Specifically, I would like to say that I believe that we have not yet come so far that we are ready to make such a change.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184244	The second brief remark by Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184246	That is very unfortunate, because I think it will be necessary to do so in order to improve the psychological working environment. With regard to the technical flaw in the fact that SF was mentioned in a context in which we should not have been mentioned, I would say that it has been forgiven. I don't know any people and no systems that don't make mistakes, including myself. But then I would like to ask a question about the psychological working environment. Having had good experience with the hotline, where people can call in if there are problems with bullying and sexual harassment, what does the rapporteur say about a proposal that a hotline could be set up at the Labour Inspectorate where you could call in if there were problems with the psychological working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184324	I think this is the kind of question to which I cannot say 'no' or 'yes' because, as I said before, we are really looking into what kind of field we are in. And it is clear that everyone, both those who are at work and those who work at work, is having a hard time finding out exactly where this is to be done. So the rapporteur does not make me say yes or no. On the contrary, I would say that I think we need to remain open in our deliberations all the time, in terms of how we are better able to clarify exactly where the issues are in the psychological working environment and also what we need to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184409	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in the series of speeches, sir. Bent Bøgsted for DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184421	Thank you, President. The debate we have on the Factory Inspectorate and the Working Environment is an important debate. A little has been said about what the objectives are, and I will not go into them further and repeat them. But what I want to say here is that one of the most important areas of the working environment and some of what we will have to address in the conciliation circle when we meet again is and will be the psychological working environment. That is where it lags, and it can be difficult to find a solution to how to tackle it one hundred percent. In the past, in the conciliation circle, we have made arrangements to have training on how to detect problems with the psychological working environment. The Danish Labour Inspectorate also works with their employees very much. How do you identify problems with the psychological working environment in companies? Where there are some people who are together, problems can always arise with the psychological working environment. It does not have to be large jobs. It may also be jobs where there may be only one or two employees in addition to the boss. There may also be problems with the psychological working environment. How, then, can this be established? It's creepy hard, because sometimes it can be a claim against a claim. Therefore, the employees of the Danish Labour Inspectorate must of course also be completely up to date with how to discover that there are problems with the psychological working environment. It is not good to see that there has been an increase. We also know that problems with the psychological working environment can arise where people are being pressured. It may be because of cuts that have been made; it may be regulations from within the government with cuts; it may be from the municipalities, where cuts are being made, so that it pushes the employees in everyday life because they get more to look on and may not be able to cope with that stress. It may be that some people think it is wrong to say, but we know that whether you like it or not, you perceive the mental working environment differently from person to person. Some are more quickly strained by stress in the psychological work environment than others do. It's human, and that's the way it is. You also need to be ready to deal with that situation, because everyone is not the same and you do not react equally to influences. Therefore, it can also be difficult to detect when there are some problems. We need to get to grips with this, and we need to find out how to ensure that people who experience that they are exposed to problems with the psychological working environment can get the help that is needed, because nobody is interested in that burden. This leads to a deterioration in the working environment, it leads to a deterioration in production, it leads to poorer employees, it leads to worse management around the world. So this is one of the biggest problems we have. We are going to get to grips with that. I am also sure that the Minister for Employment is prepared to make this one of the important points in the future. In addition, the Factory Inspectorate must, of course, also focus more on the specific areas where there are some problems. Whether the Factory Inspectorate should be equipped with additional tools for this in order to detect problems with the psychological working environment is something we need to have talked about. It may well be that there are some solutions that they can use and that can help them with those tasks, but we also need to ensure that the individual in the workplace will not experience that you will run your forehead against a wall when you experience that there are some problems with the psychological working environment. How is this to be done? Now a hotline was proposed. I will not reject it in advance. It may well be an opportunity, but how it's going to work in everyday life, I'm not gonna have to make myself smart right now. Of course, some need to study more closely. However, we must at least ensure that the help needed can be provided around us when you experience problems with the psychological working environment. However, we must also look at ourselves as politicians when some austerity exercises are being carried out. This applies, as I have said, to the government, and it applies in the municipalities. Do you load the employees around too hard so that they cannot cope with the influence that is, so that they feel that they should run twice as fast as they are used to, so that they feel that everyone is watching them to see if they are now living up to what they are supposed to do? There are many factors involved, and we need to be ready to look at that. Time's up. I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party naturally supports this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184928	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217184933	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I thought that was a good speech from the rapporteur. Bent Bøgted Thank you!). You're welcome. With regard to the question of the psychological working environment, I think it is important that we say to ourselves that it is not least in public workplaces that there are major psychological health and safety problems. It cannot be right that, whether you are an educator, a nurse or whatever you are, you are being pressured at your workplace; you must run stronger and stronger, and more and more demands are being made, not least from the surrounding society. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it really should not be ensured that the people who work in those jobs have more time for their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185027	This may well be true because, as I said, the psychological working environment is perceived differently. Some would like to have a busy everyday life where there is always good in it, and they might not see it in the same way as others do, as a mental strain. But cuts around, where there are fewer to solve the tasks, can, as I said, easily affect and trigger some stress factors, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185057	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185059	But I am very surprised because many of the public jobs have been cut both under the current government and under the previous government, let alone that it will be zero growth if there is a new government. So, as a starting point, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it should not be the case that people should have time. You don't have to have too much time. You just have to have time for your work wherever you work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185129	Now Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr that the coming government comes with zero growth. Well, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr has discovered that there will be a new government. Now it is the case that the Danish People's Party is in favour of 0.8%. In growth, not zero growth, and I have heard that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has softened on it and said it is not an ultimate requirement. I wonder if we will find a solution, I am quite convinced that the bourgeois parties will find that. But I'm glad that Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr has found that next time there will be a bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185204	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185208	I would say this in this way that I fear that there will be a bourgeois government and that I would warn every electorate against voting for the bourgeois parties, including the Danish People's Party, because this will lead to accidents for the Danish employees' families. However, I would like to say to the rapporteur that I also think it is an interesting and exciting debate which is being set up here on the sensitivity of the individual to the psychological working environment. As far as the physical working environment is concerned, we already know that the susceptibility of the body is very different. If people are exposed to dangerous substances, some may become ill after six months, while others may live in it for ten years at a workplace without anything happening, and I think the same applies to some extent to wear and tear injuries. And then it is actually very understandable if, as the rapporteur rightly says, there is also a difference in mentality. But if there is one person in the workplace who does not wear the flag because of the psychological working environment, while there are ten others who do, then it must be said that there is still a problem, that is, when it comes to the ten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185313	That is absolutely right, and that is also why we need to look at how to equip the Factory Inspectorate, the safety representatives in the companies or whatever it is. There are also some places where there are only one or two employees and then there is no security representative. But they also need to be able to demonstrate that there are some psychological stresses, and that is what we need to talk about, also with the Labour Inspectorate: how do you provide them with the right instruments to see that there is a mental strain? Because I agree with Mr. Eigil Andersen says that there may be a place where there may be five people who have a mental stress, while there are five people who do not feel that they do, even though they do the same thing, but that there is still mental overload, and we must of course be ready to tackle that. It is difficult to find the right solution, but we must then talk about it and find the right solution. Because it has to
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185409	The second brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185412	In addition to this on the psychological working environment, I would also like to ask Dansk Folkeparti whether Dansk Folkeparti will help expand the area where the Danish Labour Inspectorate can make decisions about the psychological working environment. Because, as I have mentioned earlier, there is a great deal about the psychological working environment, where decisions must not be taken today because it is said, also by the state, that it falls within the right of employers to direct and distribute work. But the problem is that we have experienced many employers who do not meet that responsibility and yet there are major problems with the psychological working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185450	I am not going to be able to say this, that is one of the things we need to talk about at the Minister's office, that is, how to solve the problems. But I cannot imagine, and it should not be the case that there are employers who are interested in having a poor mental health and safety environment. For it gives less satisfied employees, it gives worse production and thus a worse turnover for the company, and it also gives a greater burden to the employer. There's something to address. But what the solution is, I should not be able to say here and now, that is something we should have taken up in the conciliation circle. But this is a topical issue, as Mr. Eigil Andersen is leaving.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185527	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185538	Thank you. In Denmark, we welcome our labour market model, and that is with good reason, because we have basically united flexibility and security with a good deal of active labour market policy. We have achieved good results in the Danish labour market, and this can be seen in the unemployment curve. We're not in the finish line at all. There are several things that can be done better, but the starting point is good. Where am I going with this? Yes, for me it makes no sense to talk about labour market policy without focusing at the same time on active health and safety policy. This may be obvious, but there are several reasons why an active labour market policy should go hand in hand with an active health and safety strategy. Firstly, one might ask whether it makes any sense at all to pursue an offensive job policy aimed at opening up the labour market so that more people can participate if, at the same time, the other way is to get traffic out of the labour market due to lack or poor health and safety policy. That's not gonna work. Secondly, active work on working conditions is about the quality of life of the individual citizen in Denmark. After all, it is important that we have the individual citizen as the starting point, that it is the individual citizen who should be well, even when he or she goes to work. Thirdly, it is also cool business to invest in a better working environment. There is simply a good economy in it, a good economy, and one can also say: a good private economy for the individual. I don't have to entertain with different studies, it's pretty well documented. So we must insist, and we must do this together, that Denmark should have a world-class working environment. That is why I would also like to acknowledge to the Enhedslisten that they are raising this question today. It must be safe, safe and healthy to go to work, and this applies both to the physical and the psychological working environment. The Minister has exemplified the Government's OSH policy objectives and efforts and provided a status, in general terms, for what it looks like. And I fully agree with the Minister: we are well on our way to achieving the 2020 targets. In particular, I fully agree that the next measurement at the beginning of 2017 will give a more comprehensive picture of whether we are on the right track or at least a more concrete one, also because it can be said that the measurement we have now does not quite pick up some of the progress that I believe is on the way. Let me also make it clear that, radically, we are ready to dose, to turn up or initiate new initiatives, if needed, in order to achieve the targets by 2020. It is also important to keep in mind that when we talk about working conditions and about achieving these 2020 goals and about succeeding in practice with this equality between mental and physical work environment, there are no snapshot solutions if it is to work out in reality. It is hard work and it is hard work for all occupational health and safety actors. So it can be said that this is something that everyone must bring into that work in order for us to get to the finish line. But the ambition is clear. It is that we must have a world-class working environment, because it is also well-being to be able to do your job safely and safely.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185953	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217185958	Thanks for the speech. There are, after all, a number of points in labour market policy where there is a difference between Radical Left and SF. One of the things that divides us is the look on the benefit system, where we want two different things. But one of the things that Radicals and SF agree on and I am pleased that it is incredibly important to improve the psychological working environment. As the debate has shown, the figures have increased. In fact, I would like to ask Mr. Nadeem Farooq on what is actually the Radical Left's proposal to improve the psychological working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190045	There is no doubt that the first step is an equality of physical and psychological working conditions. I believe that one of the things we need to unfold more is that the Factory Inspectorate is helping to achieve the objectives through this risk-based supervision and that supervisory efforts are becoming more focused. And when I say risk-based, it's about resources being used where you think there's the greatest risk of mental health and safety problems. And then you can say that many of the things we have already put in the lake must be allowed to work. As I said before, it is not the case that there is a panacea in order to succeed in improving the psychological working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190149	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190152	However, as has also emerged from the previous debate, there is also the problem of how to find out whether there is a poor psychological working environment in a workplace. That is why I would also like to ask the radical rapporteur: how do you radicals view the possibility of introducing a hotline to the Labour Inspectorate where you can call in if there are problems with the psychological working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190215	Just to follow up on my answer before, it's really all about the money we invest in the working environment and now we're talking about the psychological work environment... must have an effect and that it has to be effective. We are prepared to discuss various efforts and we are also prepared to discuss a hotline. However, it is important that the things we are proposing are worked through by those who know something more professionally about this and can give an assessment of whether it is also effective. However, all effective means of achieving our objective, namely a better working environment, are welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190302	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's the same, sir. Eigil Andersen, now as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190326	Bad working conditions are serious. This is the reason for a poor life for many people, unfortunately, and in some cases there are employees who pay the highest price. They die at work because of bad working conditions. Others lose a leg or an arm, or their shoulders wear out, so they have to live with a disability for the rest of their lives. Still others suffer depression and anxiety due to poor mental health and safety conditions; there may be stress and an excessive workload or perhaps bullying. Some are completely burned out. Common is that they get a worse life either for a period or perhaps for the rest of their lives, and it may then be on an early retirement pension. But the poor working environment is also a bad business for society and for companies and institutions. Accidents at work and occupational diseases often result in long-term absenteeism and absenteeism results in reduced productivity, but also in the cost of sickness benefits and treatment in the health care system, in hospitals, in specialist doctors, in general practitioners. There is also a high cost of medicine, flex jobs, early retirement etc. A few years ago, the LO received a report by COWI, a consultancy firm, which says that the overall poor working environment is the cause of an annual social cost of over 60 billion. kr. In other words, it is a huge sum. It is therefore quite obvious that it is worth investing in better working conditions. It would save a great deal of money, for example. sickness benefit, loss of production, health care, etc. The weird thing is that you don't believe that in the Treasury. The Ministry of Finance has its notorious arithmetic models, and if you tell the Ministry of Finance that there is a social saving by investing in better working conditions, then the Minister of Finance says they know nothing about that. They write a large zero in their spreadsheets at the place where it should say what society can save on better working conditions. Period. I have to say that in the SF we take that attitude to our heads. I think it is concrete thinking and I think it is incomprehensible. The debate that is also under way at the moment is urgently needed on the whole of the Ministry of Finance's over-square calculation models, and that also applies to the working environment. These are some fine objectives that have been set up by the conciliation parties in the working environment conciliation, where SF is not included. This is from a situation which was in the early '00s in terms of reducing various accidents and mental workloads. Our criticism has always been that these objectives were extremely fine headlines, but that the tools needed to achieve the objectives were inadequate. We are afraid that when we reach 2020, we will look at the objectives and say: unfortunately, we could not achieve them. And we still have that fear. It makes us very uneasy in the SF that the number of mentally overloaded people has not fallen, but, on the contrary, seems to have increased, and that means that the goal of reducing it by 20%. by 2020 is even further away. We recognise that there has been a fall in muscle and skeletal loads, that is, wear and tear, and we are very pleased about this in the SF. Overall, we believe that stronger efforts are needed to achieve the objectives outlined. We therefore call on the government, which is social democratically led, to use some tripartite negotiations, including in the individual sectors of the industry, within the individual industry working environment councils, in other words to invite proposals for improved working conditions. There are, of course, many employers and shop stewards, and this also applies to trade unions and employers, if employers want to, a great deal of expertise in making proposals to improve the working environment. However, I would also like to add that it is very, very important that the government shows a willingness that it will also make the necessary tightening of state rules. I'm thinking, among other things. on such things as workplace assessments. There may be demands for them to be made more concrete, for example. that such an APV should contain what is done in the event of bullying at work. Who should be approached as an employee, and if so, what action should be taken at the workplace to stop the bullying in question? However, another point where stricter rules are also needed is one which I have also mentioned in this debate, namely that it is misleading and grotesque that the power of the Factory Inspectorate is shattered with regard to decisions in the field of mental health and safety at work. It has been decided, as I have said on a number of occasions, that the Labour Inspectorate should not interfere in anything which is then considered to be within the employer's right to direct and distribute work. But unfortunately there are a number of employers who are not all, and I would like to stress this that they are not in a position to meet their responsibilities and some of their decisions will have major consequences for the psychological working environment. It is therefore important that some rules should also be laid down to ensure that the Factory Inspectorate can take decisions in the area which is currently prohibited. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, we in the SF are voting in favour of the proposal for adoption that we have helped to table together with the Enhedslisten in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190901	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217190923	First, thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this query debate. These are, of course, some questions that are being asked to the government, and then we must hope that Enhedslisten will get answers to the questions they are asking. Health and safety at work is about the fact that it is healthy and safe to go to work. It is the Working Conditions Act which formally sets the framework for it. There are 100 notices and 150 guides to be addressed by companies in the field of health and safety at work. It costs almost 9 billion a year. kr. to enforce and regulate legislation on occupational health and safety and health at work. Businesses pay 8 billion. kr. of the 9 billion. kr. So in Denmark we use just over half a per cent. of our GDP to enforce health and safety legislation. Having said that, it is important to bear in mind that what improves the working environment in the long run is the competition that exists between companies in order to attract the best labour force. A good working environment, like a good wage, is a competitive parameter that companies must relate to if they want the best employees. For example: Google in several countries has been named the best workplace, the best company to work in. This is not due to legislation, but it is due to the fact that companies are very aware that it is a competitive parameter that one's business is a good place to work, and that makes sense too. When we have the best working environment in the world in Denmark, and when the Danes are the people who are most satisfied with going to work, this is primarily because we are a rich country which can afford to give priority to a good working environment. That is why, in our view, it is important to pursue a policy that creates economic growth that creates wealth, because it not only gives citizens the opportunity to live good lives materially, it actually also helps to improve such things as the working environment in the long run. Nor can it be ruled out that when we in Denmark have a good working environment, it is because it is worthwhile for companies to perhaps have good working conditions, to offer workers some benefits at their jobs instead of paying them a higher salary, because the tax on work is so high. One of the places where there seem to be problems with the working environment is in the public sector. If you look at sick leave in the public sector, it is higher than in the private sector, even when you look at comparable areas, i.e. if you take the primary school area, teachers employed in private schools and free schools and look at their sick absence compared with teachers employed in primary school. The same applies to the care sector. So perhaps there is something that suggests that the bureaucracy that public employees are exposed to every day is helping to create a bad working environment. A few years ago, the Health Committee visited there I was on the Health Committee, Lund hospital in Sweden, where the lean had been introduced. Not only had productivity increased, but sickness absenteeism had also been reduced. So working in a more efficient public sector, where employees can be allowed to use the skills they now have, also helps to improve the working environment and reduce absenteeism. The Danish Labour Inspectorate is three times as large as it is in Sweden, but we cannot prove that we get more out of the money we spend on it. We fully agree with the Liberal Alliance that the focus should, to a far greater extent than is the case today, be directed towards those companies where problems are identified. The Factory Inspectorate today has far too many visits to companies that have no problems, and they come back and visit these companies again and again, and this is a waste of resources. And there we also hope and sense today's debate that there is therefore a willingness to give more priority to resources where there are problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191412	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191417	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I laughed a little bit of the speech because I think it's real liberalism. However, I would like to ask one thing, because the rapporteur said that it is the employers who are paying 8 billion. kr. to the working environment. What's going on with the 8 billion? kr. To?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191440	They're going to enforce the different rules that are in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191445	Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191446	Then I have to ask the rapporteur a question about the 8 billion. kr. for the enforcement of rules. How do you know? I have never heard of it before, but it may be that Joachim B. Olsen knows something more than I do about the costs of companies to comply with regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191512-2	Yes, I seem to be doing so, and I will ensure that the rapporteur gets that documentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191521	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217191540	A good working environment is a very, very large part of having a good working life and being able to work, making a life together. We all spend a great many hours at work, which is why it is of course important that things work, that you are well and that you do not get sick from going there. That is why the work on health and safety requires a broad focus. We cannot, as many have said, stand in here and make sure that all rules are respected and that everyone has the best possible working environment in every conceivable situation. This requires broad attention from all sides, from the individual companies, from the individual employees, from the social partners and, of course, from us politicians who must create the framework. That is why we, the Conservatives, have always insisted that this particular area is one of the areas where it is important that there are broad agreements so that there is continuity in action so that it does not fluctuate from election to election. And that is why we have been part of broad agreements in this area, both under this government, and also when we were in government. One of the things we fortunately agree on is focusing on where the problems are greatest, targeting efforts where there is a proven need to do something about it. It is really important when you make such intense control and security and as many guidelines as there are in this area that you hit precisely where you help solve the problems, and do not end up in a situation where employees and companies just consider it rules and unnecessary bureaucracy and lots of papers that need to be moved around. It is too important to do this, and therefore it is important that we keep an eye on the fact that we do not drown the area in bureaucracy, but at the same time make the necessary rules and adjustments to ensure that the framework is as it should be. For this very reason too, it is so important that it is not only a political effort that is being made in the field of health and safety, but that it is in close, close cooperation with the parties that are holding their fingers down in the fuck in the day-to-day. There is no doubt that the increased focus and the broad consensus that it is important to prioritise here are also some of the things that have helped to bring more problems to light over the past few decades, probably especially in the field of the psychological working environment, where we can see right now that the reviews are actually increasing in contrast to other areas. What becomes very important to follow is also whether we can get a sense of whether it is about increasing problems or whether it is perhaps in fact, as I have a tendency to believe, about the fact that it has become more legitimate to say away from problems with the psychological working environment. Therefore, figures and statistics must always be taken with some caution. Because it is incredibly important that we have a work environment that also makes it legitimate and proper to say away when your working environment is not as it should be. And that is why it is very important that we continue to maintain that, for example. We must not be like this, as there has been a tendency, at least in the past, for example: big strong men don't get stressed. At least you don't say that out loud if you stay. The problems of the psychological working environment must also be brought to light, otherwise we will not be able to solve them. That is why we must, of course, continue to follow this area in particular in order to consider how we can develop our efforts. And we on the Conservative side are very pleased to be able to do so in broad cooperation across the middle and in the close dialogue with the social partners, which the Minister also has in this regard. We believe that this is the only way forward if we are to be able to really solve the problems that exist and not just make arbitrary rules that do not necessarily have the necessary effect. That is why we are also included in the proposal for adoption that has been tabled, and that is why we are looking forward to discussing these 2020 objectives with the government during the spring months, and in this context we will be able to contribute to reflection on how we are doing even better in this area. Because it will probably always be an area where we can have the opportunity to have experience on an ongoing basis that will enable us to become more skilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192109	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. That was the end of the rapporteur's line, and then I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192122	I have only been in Parliament for seven hours, so in relation to the 11-hour rule there is still plenty of time. I therefore have no particular comment to make on the debate that has taken place. I think I might have gone to the platform to answer any questions from the Danish Parliament. I just note that a large part of the debate has rightly been about the psychological working environment, and I think that is understandable, because, as I have explained fairly thoroughly, I think it is actually going in the right direction when we talk about wear and work accidents. That is why I think there is good reason why the Danish Parliament has taken the time to discuss what, according to the last statement we have received, is not going so well, namely the psychological working environment. I would just like to sign for that, and I would say that I should also have liked to have seen it in my answer in the first place, that this is also where we need to focus without forgetting the other two objectives. It is, of course, the psychological working environment that we must focus on in the future. I look forward to doing this with the conciliation circle, and I look forward to doing so with the Folketing as a whole, which, as my answer also showed, has been possible in previous years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192246	There are brief comments, first from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192251	Thank you, Minister. I have a question, because the evaluation from the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work says that the figure for musculoskeletal disorders has decreased, but when you look at the 2014 Labour Inspectorate's evaluation, it says that the figure for musculoskeletal diseases from 2011 to 2013 has increased from approx. 5,200 to 7,100. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192330	It's not a bad will, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, but it is very difficult just to catch such figures as one has very cleverly found inside a report. I think it will simply be a neckless deed for me to try to give an answer to it. Perhaps I can give an answer to what I heard Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr asked first of all why there is a difference between the number of cases that came into being and the cases that were notified. That's exactly because you have to report it if you have a suspicion. That is a very good thing, and that was the answer to it. But as far as those figures of 5,000 and 7,000 are concerned, without understanding the question to the bottom, it would be a neckless deed for me to answer. It's not bad will, but because I don't quite get the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192418	Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192420	Well, I understand that, so I am asking it as a written question. But then I have another question. After all, the target for 2020 is a follow-up to the 2010 target. Has the 2010 target been met?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192440	I'll be damned. At any rate, I know that I am making a great effort to achieve the target for 2020, and I think that is perhaps the interesting thing; it is the forward-looking one. And then I don't know the details of 2010 and it's also a history that may of course be interesting enough, but what I think is interesting is what is forward-looking. And there I think we have got a number of instruments to achieve it, and we will have more in the coming time. I noted that several of the rapporteurs mentioned that, when it comes to the psychological working environment, perhaps here too we need to assess more where there are risk areas and how we can get closer to it. There were also concrete proposals that we need to discuss. So achieving the 2020 targets, I think, is the interesting thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192528	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192531	I would also like to ask the Minister if he agrees that it might be a good idea to set up a hotline at the Factory Inspectorate where you could call in from your workplace if there are problems with the psychological working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192544	In any case, I would say so much that when I have visited the Labour Inspectorate, I am pleased to note that the hotlines on bullying and sexual harassment have proved to be a success. Now I do not know whether the word'success' can be used, because it is surely not a success that many people have problems in these two areas. But there are many who take advantage of that opportunity to come into direct contact, and I can say to Mr. Eigil Andersen, that when I talk to the employees, it is exactly one of the things they take quite seriously and that, moreover, it is also some longer conversations. So in this respect it has proved to be an instrument. I think that we should now assess what additional measures should be taken in the field of mental health and safety, for which everyone has, of course, taken an interest. Is hotline also an instrument to be used? And as Mr. Lennart Damsbo said that we should not take a final position here today, and I will discuss it when we meet in the circle. But when it comes to bullying and sexual harassment, it has turned out to be an instrument that employees are happy to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192647	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192648	Yeah, but I think that's excellent, too. This is also what inspired me to ask about the psychological working environment with a similar hotline. In conclusion, I have one statistical point I would like to clarify. We agree that there has been a good decrease in muscle and skeletal overloads. We agree that the number of psychic stresses has increased. That is contrary to the objective. But then we have the question of serious accidents at work. Only one year of development has been investigated, namely from 2011 to 2012, and this is a very small figure. Does the Minister agree that because there is only one year of development, one cannot yet say that it is really that there is a falling trend for serious accidents at work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192738	Yes, it can be said that it is real in relation to the psychological working environment. But I am very pleased with the question that Mr. Eigil Andersen asks, because that makes me answer that I think the work we do in this area is proper, good and serious. It is the NFA that stands for it, our health and safety research institute, which has been out and through questionnaires and in other ways in 2012 has led 24,000 people to respond to the survey. In 2014, 27,000 people replied to the investigation. In relation to what we have, it is true, very many respondents. This means that with these studies, which we are now running until 2020, where we will get one again in 2016 and 2018 and in 2020, in all these areas we will get much more accurate knowledge of what is actually being experienced out there, and thus also get some instruments to be able to target our supervision where we get the most effect from them. So I would also like to congratulate the professional background for our further work here. I think it's strong and good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192842	Sir. Bent Bøgsted for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192845	Thank you. I just need to hear the minister about something when we're talking about the psychological work environment versus accidents at work and overloading muscles, skeletals, musculoskeletals and all that. The two areas, accidents at work and the other, we have some figures too far back, but for the psychological working environment it is relatively new, and it is only in perhaps the last 15 years that it has become really acceptable to talk about. Therefore, we will always see an increase in the number of reports of psychological injuries. It is more acceptable for companies to talk about it, and this is also due to the effort we have shared in making, and if it has become more acceptable then there are also some who are becoming more open about it and talking about it. Perhaps that is why we see this increase, not because there have been more cases, but because it has come to light more. Of course, we must also take this seriously and look at how we can ensure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217192942	I do not think that can be denied. Fortunately, we are talking more about stress, mental health and safety than we did a few years ago, and I think that is a good thing. That is why I think we should take it seriously and follow it up. That is why I am also pleased that today's debate has been about focusing attention on it. In relation to the statistics we now have, as I said at the outset, we do not have anything significant about it, but where we can see that it has not gone quite as we would have liked, at least in relation to the first study, we need to pay attention to it. However, I also think there is reason to refer to the background material that we have, and I spoke just now about the many respondents who give us a good background for making decisions in the circle that have to decide on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193029	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193031	Thank you. Then I should also get on the ground, because I think I am being subjected to a little peer pressure by my colleagues from the other parties, and the rapporteur from the Left should not, of course, hold back. Now there has been a lot of talk about hotlines, and I am aware that when it comes to bullying and sexual harassment, we have had great success with the hotline that is currently running. However, Minister, does not the Minister think that it would be beneficial for both workers and employers to have that dialogue in the workplace if people in the workplace had the courage to talk about bullying, sexual harassment, psychological health and safety at work in general, because it is out there that occupational injuries happen? What does it take to give employees and employers the courage to have the discussion out there where the damage occurs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193125	I am sorry, if this is going to seem like a pressure, that I stated at the outset that I have only been in this Chamber for seven hours and that there is an 11-hour rule. But that's not how it was supposed to be understood. Let me tell Mr. Peter Juel Jensen: It is absolutely true that there are two sides to this. There is the responsibility that we have as a parliament and that I have as a minister, where we have the Labour Inspectorate and so on, and that is what we have concentrated on today. But what I think is the good thing that characterizes this area is that here the parties are deeply involved in it. The fact that very often, in almost the vast majority of situations, we see that the parties actually come to us as politicians with solutions that they agree on is also what promotes progress in this area, and thus they must also assume responsibility which lies at the individual workplace. Because it is absolutely true that some of the things we talk about in the psychological working environment are also about the individual workplace. And by the way, I think, and it was Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted also mentioned that this is very often also about management.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193233	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193235	Thank you. This may not be so much a question for the Minister, but we might as well go for a time record in the Parliamentary Chamber. I very much agree with the Minister that if we are to achieve a better working environment in Denmark, we need to have the parties on the ground to a greater extent. Because I can hear that the Minister has had the same experience with the parties as I have had, namely that they are also very keen that we get a significantly better working environment in Denmark. So I would like to wish the Minister every success in the forthcoming conciliation rounds, where we are once again looking at the 2020 objectives and involving the parties. Good work, Minister!
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193311	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193313	That's how short it can be done. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Thursday, 19 February 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150217193330	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 18 February 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer you to the agenda, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
