ParlaMint-DK_20151119100009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 63 (Proposal for a law amending the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc.) Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 28 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on alcolocks). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100036	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100059	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I believe that everyone has now voted and the vote has ended. In favour of 103 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100238	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100253	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100325	Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100355	It's just short to say that I had promised to explain SF's position. We should have had a meeting, which unfortunately did not happen, to explain the prices of financial products. But SF is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100413	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100420	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of LA and SF) on Amendment No 1. 2-8, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of the SF), on Amendment No. 9, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of LA and SF), on Amendment No. 10, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of the SF), on Amendment No 10, on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and on the proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community. Amendment No 11, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of LA and SF), on Amendment No 11, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100525	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100548	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee (except EL and SF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100609	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100648	Thank you for that, President. The bill we are discussing here is true in its title related to natural gas...
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100708	The treatment has begun, so we need to get some rest in the room. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100713	But it is very much about the possibility of getting more green gases into our gas system and ensuring that our gas system also becomes part of the solution to the fossil-free society we want to have in a few years' time. When we then support the production and upgrading and purification of biogas, so that we can get it online, it is of course also important, according to the EU rules that are that you do not spend more money on supporting it than it costs to do so. And the bill we are dealing with today is, in fact, just about creating transparency about what it really costs. That's why the minister here is empowered to get Energinet.dk to put on the web what the cost is of these different things for production, upgrade, purification of biogas. Secondly, it can be said that those receiving aid are, of course, also obliged to provide the necessary information. So it is a relatively simple proposal which here creates transparency and ensures that we can support production, upgrade etc. of biogas, but also ensure that we do not support with more than it actually costs, both because it would be unreasonable and because it would be contrary to the EU rules on overcompensation. The Socialists are in favour of the bill and, of course, look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100830	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119100842	After all, the Danish energy system is covered by a wide range of different subsidy schemes for the various so-called green energy sources. And when you give subsidies for various forms of energy, because you have wanted to promote them politically, it is also good that you keep an eye on whether the subsidies you give will not end up being too high at the end. Therefore, it is quite reasonable that the draft law here proposes rules on how to keep an eye on the fact that subsidies for biogas in this case are not actually given more than the producers really need. As the previous rapporteur on the platform said, the bill here is that rules should be laid down to check that there is no more aid for biogas than the producers really need. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is common sense to give no more in subsidies than necessary, because we actually prefer to have an energy system based on market prices and not on all kinds of state aid. So since it may help to reduce a subsidy and, in the long term, to abolish a subsidy scheme, we think it is a good legislative proposal that has been put forward here. So in the Danish People's Party we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101008	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101015	Thank you for that, President. I do not need to add any more words to what the draft law is about, except that I just want to say that, of course, we in the Left also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101030	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101044	Thank you. After all, it sounds good that the Minister has the power to keep an eye on the cost of upgrading and cleaning biogas. We think that in committee we need a little more detail on the scope of the rules which the Minister is authorized to lay down. And since this is an area where there is a prospect that there may be a tripling of biogas by 2020, there is reason to follow the area closely and to keep an eye on what costs it is, if any, could be increasing. We support the bill. At the same time, it is a bit strange to sit here in the Danish Parliament and deal with a bill where a very good process is planned with three treatments, with the possibility that there may be an appearance and where there has been a hearing before the bill is considered, and at the same time experience that other legislative proposals have to be rushed through in two days. I think that's a little thought-provoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101140	Now it is this proposal that we are dealing with, and no one else. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101147	Thank you. In this connection, the Liberal Alliance has no objection to the granting of the authorisation by the Minister. After all, none of us has any interest whatsoever in overcompensation in an area where there are already very high subsidies. That is why the Liberal Alliance can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101209	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101216	Briefly: the alternative can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101220	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101230	I don't have to stall either. We also support the bill, which gives the Minister the power to calculate the costs, so that we can be on the safe side of EU regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101246	Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101253	The SF also supports the proposal because it makes sense to ensure that the rate of aid is adjusted in relation to the market price of natural gas. Having said that, however, I would still like to call for the tax analysis which the government has long been carrying out and which has actually been held back. This could be useful in terms of how the price of natural gas and biogas will develop in relation to, for example, natural gas prices. the prices of biomass. But we must ask about this in the further work of the committee. I know that the Minister, when he was in opposition, raised several committee questions, and I asked him the same question afterwards when he became a minister. It does not look as if we are getting that tax analysis for the time being, but I think it would be useful to have a sensible market and it will be the types of fuel that we want to support because of green elements and not just for historical reasons. So I will once again call for the tax analysis, but of course I support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101355	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the last rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101403	Thank you. I was born and raised in Jutland, and even though I don't live there anymore, the good Jutland savers are still sitting in me. From there we have learned that a crown saved is a crown earned. So, of course, we also think on the conservative side that it is quite good if we can provide the tools needed to be absolutely sure that this overcompensation does not happen. So we also support the Conservatives' bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101428	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101434	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their positive comments on the draft law. As has been shown, the aim of the bill is to create the legal basis for Energinet.dk to collect and quantify the costs of producing biogas and the supply of biogas to the natural gas and urban gas networks. The existing legal framework only allows the Minister to carry out an over-compensation assessment, but there is no legal basis for obtaining the necessary information, as well as the possibility for Energinet.dk to draw up an inventory on the basis of this information. The draft law provides these provisions which are necessary to enable the Minister to assess whether the existing aid could lead to overcompensation. The bill is intended to ensure that Denmark complies with the terms of the European Commission decision of November 2013 approving aid schemes for upgraded and purified biogas, etc. The conditions are that Denmark must monitor how the operating savings for the biogas plants concerned, including upgrading and treatment plants, are evolving to ensure that there is no overcompensation. It is expected that the draft law will enter into force on 1 February 2016 and that the specific rules on inventory and information on production and input costs will enter into force on 1 July 2016. It is expected that the assessment of whether the aid for upgraded and purified biogas can lead to overcompensation will be carried out for the first time in autumn 2016. Thank you for Parliament's interest in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101619	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101636	The debate is open. First the Minister of Justice, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119101713	I apologize to the President. I am well aware that the Folketing deals with matters quickly at this time, but that happens so quickly, I was not quite prepared for. A rape is a terrible crime that can have major and long-lasting consequences for the victim. Therefore, I am also very concerned to ensure that rape victims are treated with care and professionally from the case's notification to the end of the case. The proposers will include: in writing. - (FR) I believe that sexual rape is a criminal offence and, in my view, raises a number of very fundamental questions. The criminalisation of negligent rape was thoroughly dealt with by the Criminal Law Council in a 2012 report on sexual crimes, where it was advised not to make negligent rape punishable, as several issues spoke decisively against. The Criminal Code Council pointed out, among other things, that: the fact that, although negligent rape is punishable, it will not change the fact that the prosecution will have to raise many of the same difficult issues of evidence as today. The prosecution will, for example: still had to prove that intercourse was forced by violence or threat of violence. In addition, the Criminal Code Council points out that criminalisation of negligent rape could risk having the unintended consequence of the fact that, in practice, conditions which are actually to be described as intentional rape are instead subject to a milder sentence on negligent rape. The proposers point out that in Norway, the only Nordic country that has criminalised grossly negligent rape, there has been an increase in the number of notifications. This is also reflected in the report by the Criminal Code Council. However, where the number of rape reports had increased in Norway since grossly negligent rape was criminalised, the number of convictions compared to notifications was still at the same level in Norway as before the amendment of the law. The experience of Norway does not therefore seem to give the impression that it has become easier for the prosecution to lift the burden of proof, as the proposers want. Another important experience from Norway is the aspect that I mentioned just before tends to consider cases which, according to Danish law, could probably be punished as intentional rape because of the nature of the violence or threat of violence, as grossly negligent rape instead. This means that the perpetrator's sentence will be significantly lower. In addition to the point of negligent rape, the motion for a resolution contains a number of different proposals for the different handling of rape cases, for example. training requirements and advice. It is not difficult to understand sympathy for the reasons behind the motion for a resolution. We are probably all concerned that people who have been subjected to such a terrible crime are being treated in the best possible way. This is also the reason why, in September of this year, I launched a major study of the area, which will examine, among other things, the situation. some of the points which are also mentioned in the resolution. The study includes: closer to police record-keeping practices, on the reception by police of rape cases, the manner in which cases are investigated, and on the appointment of aid lawyers in rape cases. The study is based, inter alia, on: in foreign experience, a manual review of police circles' cases in the field, and not least of the experience I gained from a meeting with a number of relevant actors in the field. At the meeting, held at the end of September, regional rape centres, victim advice, aid lawyers and others who, by virtue of their function, are in contact with victims of rape took part. It was rewarding for me to hear what experience they have gained in their work and what developments they have seen in this area. The input I received in this connection has had an impact on how we have organised the further work on the investigation, including the case review in the police circles. Furthermore, as part of the fight against rape, I believe it is important that we, as a society, punish the perpetrator in a way that clearly places responsibility where it belongs and which marks the seriousness of the offence. We are not doing that enough today. That is why, earlier this month, I sent a legislative proposal to a hearing, which calls for an overall increase in the level of penalties in rape cases by one year. As I said at the outset, I am very concerned that we are doing what we can to ensure that victims of rape are treated in a good and proper manner. For the same reason, I am also very concerned that the initiatives we are taking meet the real needs in this area. It is essential for me that we make the decision on the basis of as enlightened a basis as possible. Therefore, it is also my view that we should await the outcome of the study, which will be completed at the beginning of 2016. The government therefore fully supports that part of the resolution's intentions, but, for the reasons I have pointed out, cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102206	Thank you, Minister. And then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102219	Thank you for your kind words. It is a re-submission of a motion for a resolution, and it is also a discussion that we have had for several years. The minister was indeed out with an announcement earlier, which led a number of organizations to write an open letter to the Minister, which he has seen, of course, where they write: "We welcome your announcement that you put justice and the sense of justice at the heart of your work as Minister of Justice, very welcome. But a narrow focus on punishment and length, specifically in relation to rape crimes, does not solve the problems. They go far deeper and require a broader perspective. ▪ One of their points is something that has also been discussed a lot and has been covered in the media, namely that there are incredibly many rape cases that are not reported at all. We also have the discussion on survey numbers and provisions, etc. and about the whole culture, and that there is so much difference between what is happening in the different police circles. I also hear the Minister say that it is not only about higher penalties, because if the cases are not brought to justice, then it certainly does not help but that it is also about changing a culture and getting a uniform practice and ensuring more help, while guaranteeing legal certainty for the accused, of course. And that is what I really want confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102335	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102336	I fully agree with all of that. And that is why, against the very nature of my government, I am trying to embrace the motion for a resolution. We have a real disagreement about negligent rape, and that is what it is. All the rest I have in principle sympathy for, and I hope that the 360-degree review undertaken by the government in this area can result in us being able to come together jointly in the Folketing to introduce rules in this area which can support the concerns that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102413	Thank you to the Minister, and then it is the rapporteur of the Socialists, Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102424	The motion for a resolution here instructs the government in this Assembly to propose amendments to the penal code and to take a series of new initiatives to improve the conditions for rape victims. We also discussed the proposal in the spring when the then government launched work on opportunities for improvement in this area, including a better data base, and we have noted that the Minister of Justice has followed up that work and initiated further investigations. It is, of course, a prerequisite for improving the knowledge of the problems and their causes. And there is now a knowledge base on which it makes a great deal of sense to act, because we now actually know where the problems lie. In the Social Democratic Party we see with great concern that too many are subjected to the massive abuse of a rape. Everyone who knows someone who has been subjected to this atrocity knows how intrusive it is; not only at the moment of the crime, but also far, far into the future. That is why we are also giving our support to improving the prevention of rape. We are giving our support to the rape victims and to the police's ability to prosecute those who are guilty, and we are also giving our support to the courts' penal options, but not in relation to the part of what is about negligent rape. Either you commit a rape or you do not, so we would like to look at the part that is about improving the chances of bringing those who have committed the rape to account and improving the courts' ability to prosecute them. But we Social Democrats are either committing a rape or not. So if we can discuss that part, the Socialists would like to support the resolution before us, but not with the wording it has here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102630	Thank you to the rapporteur. That is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102634	Thank you. Of course, I think it is quite fair to be in favour of parts of the resolution and against the part that is about negligent rape. It was the same discussion that took place in the spring, and I think it is quite fair that one is against that part. But I think Mrs Trine Bramsen makes it sound as if the intention of the SF's proposal is to judge someone who has not committed rape. And I don't think that's okay. After all, we've seen some cases where someone said, "Well, I didn't want to rape her." I just walked down the street, there was the lady, I pulled her in the hair into an alley and raped her, but that wasn't my intention. Mrs Trine Bramsen has been in this for a longer time than I have, and he has heard some of these stories mentioned many times in the media. There are cases and cases where there has been no evidence of violence, for example. because he has been senselessly intoxicated. Then we can't just have a fair discussion about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102740	Thank you. Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102744	No, I honestly think that explanation is completely incomprehensible. So if you did not intend to rape, either you rape or you do not. You can't lie in between and say you got to rape. So I simply do not understand that argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102806	There are no more brief comments. Thank you. Then it's the next rapporteur, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102820	It is a proposal whose intention I can only have the greatest sympathy for. No one can be in any doubt that rape is one of the most horrible crimes that can be committed at all, a terrible attack on another human being. Of course, there must be massive action against this. There are many good intentions in this proposal, better conditions for victims, further training, analysis of procedures, counselling of victims, increased demands for police communication with victims, better statistics, etc., but there is also something in this proposal that we are not quite happy with, and that is paragraph 6, criminalisation of negligent rape, which we believe creates some sort of grey area in these cases, and we are not enthusiastic about that as a starting point. I note that the Minister is doing more work. We intend to wait for that. We'd really like to take a look at this area. It is also a high priority for the Danish People's Party to look at the penalties. It is therefore positive that this is also one of the elements that the Minister intends to raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102926	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119102929	Thank you for your comments. I'm just curious to hear what's changed over the spring, where Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen's colleague was very positive about this proposal. After all, there has even been a process about what follows. And then there's this thing about waiting for some work. It's really good if you've never looked into an area before, but it's something we've been discussing for years. So I just want to hear what has changed since the rapporteur's colleague made that speech on behalf of the party last spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119103006	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119103007	The last time we had the discussion on this proposal, the Danish People's Party had the greatest sympathy for the proposal, and so we still have it. That is why we welcome the fact that the government is now finally looking at this area and it is a job that we look forward to contributing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119103023	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119103036	Thank you for that, President. There is no doubt that rape is one of the most terrible crimes that often have major and long-lasting consequences for the victim. It is therefore clear that we must do what we can to ensure that the victim is given the most gentle, professional and appropriate treatment. The reason for the SF's proposal is that the political debate all too often concerns the perpetrator, about punishment and about justice. With this proposal, SF therefore wants to ensure better focus on the victims. In the Left, we very much agree that much more attention should be paid to the victims in criminal proceedings. With this proposal, the SF proposes a number of initiatives which, overall, will help to ensure better treatment and greater consideration for the victims of rape. It proposes, among other things, that action be taken to improve the training of staff and authorities in contact with the victim. It is also proposed that more funds should be allocated to ensure that rape victims can be given the right to advice and interview aid. In line with the SF, the Left believes that special consideration should be given to the victims of rape. Those who are the victims of such an insulting crime as rape must feel safe to approach the authorities, and they must be guaranteed the best conditions for dealing with the abuse. That is why we can also support several of the initiatives proposed. But basically, we do not think that this is something we should legislate for. The jumping point in this proposal and what is crucial for us in the Left not to be able to support the proposal is that the SF is proposing to criminalise negligent rape. Both the Minister and the rapporteurs of the previous parties have referred to the Criminal Code Council's in-depth consideration of the issue of criminalisation of negligent rape. Since this is a re-submission, the SF is well aware of the position of the Left, namely that we rely on the recommendation of the Criminal Court and are therefore against making negligent rape punishable. Indeed, the conclusion of the report by the Criminal Court on sexual crimes in 2012 is that the Council does not believe that there is a real need for criminalisation of negligent rape. In addition, a number of factors, including legal certainty, are pointed out, which argue against the criminalisation of negligent rape. In the Left, we believe that criminalisation of negligent rape will have more inappropriate consequences. In order for this not to be a long repetition, I would just like to endorse the remarks made by both the Minister and the previous rapporteurs about inappropriate consequences. In many respects, this is a very good proposal. We can all agree that the victims of a crime as offensive as rape must be offered the best possible treatment. Of course, the Left agrees that rape victims must be treated properly and professionally, from the point of view of the case to the point of conclusion. And that is why we are also positive about several of the proposals' initiatives. If we do not vote in favour of the proposal today, there are two main reasons for this. This is a very serious issue, and that is why we need to make decisions on an enlightened basis. This can only happen after we have seen the results of the investigation under way by the Ministry of Justice on rape. And I note that the Minister of Justice says that it is already finished in early 2016, so we are awaiting that investigation. Moreover, as has been mentioned several times before, we are opposed to negligent rape. On behalf of the Conservatives, I must inform you that they cannot support the proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119103443	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119103456	I would like to start, as several other rapporteurs have done, by commending the SF for once again addressing the problem of rape victims. It is, of course, a complete re-submission of an earlier motion for a resolution which we have dealt with here in the Assembly, but it will not be any worse, certainly not. We have heard too many stories about women who are badly taken in by the police and about the guilt and shame that can result from reporting rape, both from the surrounding community, but also, unfortunately, from the police who are supposed to help the victims and who should be on their side. The idea of rape in our society today is, for me, to look away Old Norse, and indirect women are inflicting too much guilt on them. We also see how far too many cases are dealt with in relation to other forms of crime, and how few rape cases actually ever occur in court, that is to say, ever come before a judge, even in relation to other crimes. That is unacceptable. We need a change of attitude on the part of the police, but certainly also a change of attitude on the part of society in general. This is also a structural problem, it is also a problem of equality, and we must recognise that. So much praise to SF for holding the focus. We would very much like to be involved in this. There are several things in this resolution that we can recognise from ourselves in the Enhedslisten. The security system proposed by the SF is also something that we in the Enhedslist have proposed several times, so that as a victim you simply have to have an aid lawyer with you when you are first questioned. Further training for the police is also something we have talked about many times. After all, advice and, above all, improved statistics are also something that women's organisations and human rights organisations are shouting loudly about. So we can only support that. In the Enhedslisten we also have a desire to have a special group of trained police officers, that is to say, that this is left to a special unit because there are so many problems with the area. Unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of the resolution, and we cannot do so because of what other rapporteurs have also said about negligent rape. It is not something that we think is entirely on the moon to propose to say it with laymens. It is also a discussion that we have had in our party and that we have different views on, and it is not an easy decision to make whether it is a good or a bad idea to criminalise negligent rape. There may be things that speak both for and against. For us in the Enhedslisten, there are two crucial arguments for us to end up being opposed to criminalising negligent rape. One is, as the Minister also pointed out, that there has been experience from Norway which suggests that people who are being convicted today of deliberate rape are only convicted of negligent rape, and we think that this would be a really bad development. The second, and perhaps even most important, is that if you start criminalising negligent rape, it means, of course, that you have to judge legally what a perpetrator should have realized because of the circumstances. We are concerned that it can shift even more focus on the victim's behavior and dress and, by the way, thereby pushing this imposition of guilt and shame, which unfortunately already exists against victims. At the same time, there has been a change in practice. It is true that in the past there have been some grotesque examples of rapes where perpetrators have been released. I remember a sentence in which a man was acquitted because he claimed he didn't understand the Polish word for no. It's nine and therefore he was acquitted. I also remember other very terrible stories. However, there has been a change of practice in the Supreme Court, which means that if circumstances clearly indicate a psychic coercion or indirect threat, then it is rape and also intentional rape. So it doesn't happen anymore, you might say, luckily. We would very much like to vote in favour of virtually all of this bill, but because of criminalisation of negligent rape, we cannot. However, we would very much like to cooperate with the SF on all the other good proposals with which we are very much in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104030	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104044	Of course, the assessment of the seriousness of the rape crime described in the motion for a resolution agrees with the Liberal Alliance. We also agree with the assessment of the importance that is being described of protecting and helping the victims of this very, very serious type of crime. On the other hand, we in the Liberal Alliance can also endorse the criticism that has already been voiced unanimously, as far as I can hear, from paragraph 6 of the proposal, and that is why we cannot support the proposal. However, we would urge the SF to take a positive approach to the work already undertaken by the government. We are serious when we say that there is really a chance here that the people's regime can emerge from its very good and cooperative side in order to find good solutions that also take account of the victims, while avoiding the problems of the concept of negligent rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104210	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104223	Thank you. The purpose of the resolution is to ensure better treatment of rape victims, and that is a purpose on which we can only give our full support in the alternative. Then I'd like to read some statistics. It may be a bit boring, but it's some significant numbers. The Crime Prevention Council estimates that up to 2,000 rapes are committed annually. Amnesty estimates that there are actually more than 3,000. According to the Crime Prevention Council, the police receive 350-450 rape reports every year, and at almost 75%. Of these reviews, a person is charged. But 81%. of all notifications end without a conviction. There are approx. 60 people a year who are found guilty. In addition, one in seven Danes actually believe that the women themselves are to blame if they have gone home with the perpetrator. This shows that there is a great need to do things better in this area, and here we think that the SF in their resolution has managed to get around the various aspects of the legal system well. We must create a better legal system in which the rape victim meets with understanding and respect. Cases where the victim and the perpetrator have met prior to rape have a particular risk of being laid down, and that is despite the fact that 72%. of the women who report couple rape actually have physical injuries after rape. 66 per cent. of the cases in which women report contact rape... that is where, in goose eyes, you know your rapist... and also have physical injuries... will also be disposed of. So there's a great need for us to get this system right, and that's what we also see in SF's proposal. Then we come to what has been discussed up here: criminalisation of negligent rape. We support that too. I think it is important to bear in mind here that negligent rape is not, after all, about moving the burden of proof. In cases of negligent rape, it is still the prosecution who has to prove that the perpetrator should have known that he was doing something wrong. It is a difficult burden of proof to lift, but it will be possible to lift it in cases where, for example, it is possible to do so. has been about a Christmas party where a woman has been raped by five men and she was either so drunk that she couldn't quit, or was completely paralyzed, so she couldn't or dare to quit. These are the cases we're talking about. We are also talking about the cases where a man pulls a woman from the street in a backyard and she freezes completely and doesn't have the ability to say actively. That is why we think it is important to bear in mind that the burden of proof has not been moved. I think that some of the rapporteurs who have been up here are saying that it will then be easier to judge you. No, it doesn't, because it's a crazy hard burden of proof to promise that a man should have known he was doing something wrong. What we also believe a negligent rape clause can help is that there will be a much-needed discussion of the sexual morality we have. We consider that this will have a preventive effect. We estimate that there will be more women who dare report rape. And again, I think it is important to bear in mind that the burden of proof is not being transferred to the perpetrator. In those words, the alternative will support the whole proposal as such and we look forward to discussing it further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104624	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104628	I am somewhat surprised at the rapporteur's speech and it is not because I do not have all due respect for the fact that the alternative has arrived at the desire to criminalise negligent rape. In fact, I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that you end up there in your argument. So it is certainly not to blame the rapporteur for the conclusion, because I think it is fair. We could have come up with the same thing in our party if I was to be honest. That example, in which a person pulls a victim into an alley and where the victim then dares not to disown, because the victim is paralyzed, should not today make deliberate rape, shatters in my ears. It is indeed the case that the Supreme Court has very clearly stated that what is called the continuation of eventuality also applies, and that is to say, if the circumstances are such that the perpetrator should have realised that it was threatening, it is also deliberate rape. So could the rapporteur not only confirm that this example would be punished today as if it were deliberately raped?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104747	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104749	Thank you. I fully agree with that. In fact, we do not need to change the current legislation, because what is going on in these examples can be punished today, but it just will not be. And by introducing a paragraph with negligent rape, we send a signal that it is important to be absolutely sure that the sexual activity that you are now doing is accepted by the person with whom you have a sexual activity. So I fully acknowledge that this can happen today, but the reason why we support this proposal is that, unfortunately, these cases are cases which often do not lead to a verdict to the perpetrator. And by introducing this paragraph, we would like to send a signal that negligent rape, that is, that you should have known better, is being criminalised.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104843	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104844	I think that's exciting. Well, in our party we have tried to dive a lot into it, and it is true that these examples of cases exist, but they are old. And there is a very clear practice now, which states that there may be an underlying threat in the circumstances, and that means that it condemns deliberate rape. I fully agree that there are too few cases that reach the courts. Too many cases are closed, too few reporters; that really is a problem. But if the alternative has examples of more recent cases following this change of practice, where it is still happening, i.e. where national courts and city courts do not follow the very clear practice of the Supreme Court, we would very much like to see them, because this is, of course, an opportunity for us to reconsider our own position.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104938	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119104941	Thank you. I see this most as a comment, and I am, of course, in favour of it, and I also hear that we all have an interest in the fact that we are dealing with these issues. Again, I would say that we see this paragraph as a way to arrive more quickly at the objective that everyone really wants to achieve, namely that these cases are being reported, that they are being taken seriously by the police and that they arrive at a trial and a possible conviction if you can lift the burden of proof. And again, as I said earlier in my rapporteur's speech, it is important for me to stress that the burden of proof is not being moved; it is still the prosecution who has to prove that the perpetrator in question should have known better, and we are convinced that, if such a paragraph is introduced, there will be a more positive development in the really bad statistics, which unfortunately are in the field of rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119105036	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119105049	Thank you. In the Radical Left, too, we have very much sympathy for the proposal. It is generally difficult to be opposed to doing more. It was the SR government that set in motion the work of preparing a better legal and data base so that we can give more support to the victims of such a horrible crime as rape. I must also say that we in the Radical Left are very pleased that the Minister is apparently in the process of following up this work. There are certainly many things in which I disagree with the Minister for Justice, but just in this area I do have a rather good feeling that the Minister for Justice intends to do something about it and that it is not only about the sense of justice and criminality, but at least as much about prevention, better data bases, better follow-up help, training of police and staff, that cultural change continues so that we can have better treatment for rape victims. So, like others, I tend to wait for the Justice Minister's work. I would be very happy if the Minister for Justice could give us a slightly clearer indication of when the work is expected to be completed, just as I expect the Minister for Justice to involve all rapporteurs in good time in the rather broad spirit of cooperation in this area, so that we can have a broad and thorough examination of the legislative improvements and ensure better treatment of rape victims. In any case, I feel the same as some of the previous rapporteurs, including myself. Unity list, that is, I cannot support the point of negligent rape in this motion for a resolution. If you commit rape, you must be convicted of rape, regardless of your own opinion of the crime you have committed. Although I also have a great deal of sympathy for the reasons put forward by the alternative rapporteur, I do not think that signal legislation is something we should use. The legislation must work, but surely we must signal the need for these fundamental cultural changes, and that is what I expect the Minister of Justice to follow up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119105319	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119105337	We live in 2015, and you can often feel that. We live our lives as we want. But sometimes you think about what a decade or a century you're in when you can hear some people say in the debate: you're up to it if you're wearing it and that clothes, if you go down a dark alley alone in the middle of the night if you've been flirting with him. And there was an outcry when a 16-year-old debater wrote an idiotic reading letter. But what I'm almost more worried about is that one in seven Danes thinks it might be the victim's own fault. So this is a discussion about a change in culture. We can do a lot from in here, but we can't do it all, and it's just as much to keep the debate going about the fact that in Denmark by the year 2015, only one person is responsible for a rape case, and that's the one who is committing the rape. I think it will take some time yet, but every time we have these discussions, I think we come one step closer to living and wanting to live in a country where there is equality and where moral assessments of how people behave should not be made. I would like to thank all the parties for one, I think, very proper treatment of this. After all, I knew that one particular point about negligent rape would be the focal point. It was also when the resolution was tabled in the spring. I would also like to thank the Minister for taking this very seriously. The reason I have retabled it is that there has been a discussion following various media stories where I and many others were involved in the public debate. And then I started getting stories from women... there are also men who are raped, but mostly from women... and they told absolutely appalling stories. Many of them had not reported it because they were embarrassed and ashamed. Some had reported it, but the burden of proof could not be lifted, so the cases were closed. One of those who wrote to me and who I promised anonymity had been raped by a friend of her then boyfriend and was so embarrassed that she didn't report it. Later, she went down with stress, got ptsd, lost all her hair, and became homeless. So it's quite awful to hear some of those stories about how an assault can be an assault for the rest of the life of some of these people. Once again, when we have the point about negligent rape, about which there has been most discussion today, it is not really about me in any way weakening anyone's legal certainty. I also have a father and brothers and cousins and male friends and male colleagues, and I would never suggest anything that would weaken their or others' legal certainty. It's never been the intention of this bill. Of course, the burden of proof must be lifted, and we know that in many of these cases it is difficult to lift the burden of proof, and therefore there will never be a hundred per cent conviction, I think we must say that to ourselves. According to Amnesty, more than half of the cases in which the police have charged a perpetrator are closed, including cases where the victim has physical injuries to the body. I very much hope that all the parties that have made positive statements today in all areas except one will also back up if I am allowed to take one point out of the resolution. Because I still believe that it is the role of the Folketing to make such decisions. I would like to express full recognition to the Minister for Justice for taking that work a step further, but these are some headlines, and then you can fill it in in which you have a data base. At any rate, I hear from the parties that no one disagrees with the need for better advice, for better training of police officers who have not been taught how to deal with this, for better statistics in this area and for the methods of questioning to be improved. So I would very much hope for that and also talk to the committee about it. I hope that this is something that we can continue to discuss, and I think that all the parties have handled this discussion very seriously. I also recognise that the Minister will increase the penalties, and the Minister is entitled to do so. I do not really object to that either, but I just think that, as many organisations have said, it is one thing, but that we also need many more people to report real rapes at all, and that we have a legal system and a police system that can handle it better. Because it is not dignified and not legal in order for the victims that so many feel that they do not even dare or can report, or that some of them in some places are unfortunately also asked: What were you wearing? Why were you out? Thank you very much for the serious discussion in this area, and I also look forward to the further discussion and hope that together and broadly I think everyone is prepared to do something about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119105950	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119110008	The debate is open, and it is the Minister of Justice first.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119110022	Thank you for that, President. Stalking, because of its systematic and persistent nature, is a particular strain on the victim and often also on the relatives of the victim. Studies indicate that stalking can have major social and psychological consequences for the victim who lives in persistent insecurity. There are also several examples of how stalking has developed into threats, violence and worse. That is why the government also intends to work to strengthen its efforts against stalking. We need to do more to protect the too many people who are subjected to stalking each year here in Denmark. That is why I also agree with the authors of the motion that we must ensure that the victims of stalking receive the help and protection they need. I therefore again think that the motion for a resolution and the intention behind it are both good and sympathetic. However, there are certain elements in the proposal that I am hesitant about. This is true, for example. the proposal that a new provision on stalking should be introduced into the criminal code. In 2012, the Danish Parliament adopted a new comprehensive set of rules on restraining orders, residence bans and expulsions, the so-called restraining order. The purpose of the restraining law was to strengthen efforts to protect individuals from the face of violations of peace, persecution and harassment, including stalking. That is clear, among other things. In the case of stalking, it must be taken as an aggravating factor in determining penalties for infringement of a restraining order, prohibition of residence and expulsion. In this context, stalking is defined as systematic and persistent persecution and harassment. Thus, there is a provision in Danish law which defines what is understood by stalking. At the same time, the provisions of the restraining law stress that stalking is a serious crime and is one of the serious cases of violation of the restraining order, prohibition of residence and expulsion. At the same time, it is worth noting that the law on restraining orders is based on a report by the Committee on Criminal Procedure on restraining orders, residence bans and expulsions. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs dealt precisely with the question of whether a criminal clause on stalking should be introduced. The Committee considered, however, that the restraining order system would provide better protection for injured persons and that strengthening protection against harassment and persecution, including stalking, should instead be done by modernising the rules on restraining orders. In this context, the Committee pointed out, inter alia: That action could be taken much earlier in the course of the proceedings than with punishment. The Committee therefore considered that there was no evidence to suggest that a specific penal provision on stalking, which does not require a prior restraining order, would strengthen the possibility of preventing stalking from becoming a more serious form of crime, such as: threats of violence. Having said that, I would like to say that it is the Government's view that we must do more to strengthen our efforts. The resolution also contains elements that I do not wish to deny that we must continue to work on. As I said at the outset, this is an area of serious and serious consequences for the victims, and that is why I think it is important to take a thorough look at it. I have therefore asked the Ministry of Justice to undertake a work on mapping the existing knowledge and efforts in the stalking field in cooperation with the relevant authorities and organisations in the field. This work will examine not only the need for initiatives in the field of police, but also initiatives in other areas, for example. social. On the basis of this survey, we will be able to consider on a well-informed basis what new initiatives may be needed to strengthen efforts towards stalking, and the study in question should be completed by the beginning of 2016. I think this is the right way to go about it, and I therefore hope that Parliament will wait with me for this work before adopting specific new initiatives. So, although I am full of sympathy for the present proposal and the intentions behind it, the government cannot support the resolution on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119110433	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. The first rapporteur after the Minister is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119110441	In the social democracy we have the greatest sympathy for the women and men who are subjected to stalking. This is quite unreasonable, and that is why we also chose to improve their conditions during our reign, both through the victim package and through legislative adjustments. We would also like to see further initiatives to ensure conditions for stalking victims. In fact, when we vote on 3 December, it is also about the terms of stalking victims with the act on restraining orders. This means that in future, protection will be taken from a restraining order abroad, because we must remember that stalking is not only a matter of national borders but also of cross-border borders. The motion for a resolution, as it stands here, contains many sympathetic proposals, and we would very much like to discuss, together with the SF, understandably also the Minister for Justice, and the rest of Parliament, how we can ensure better conditions for stalking victims. There are many interesting aspects of the resolution that we can support, but there are also aspects that we cannot support immediately. This is due both to the fact that it is not concrete here in the motion for a resolution, but also to the fact that there is the part that is about GPS footbands as a means of combating stalking. It must of course be assumed that those concerned have received a judgment and, if you are to understand GPS chains as part of the judgment, we would like to look at it, but not if those concerned are no longer punished. It would be a serious breach of legal certainty if you could be required to carry a GPS without being punished. In that case, it will be in the penal code that these sharpenings must lie. So we are happy to discuss it and have a great deal of sympathy and understanding for the proposal that the SF is making today, but as it stands, we cannot support it on the part of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119110650	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119110704	Stalking is a terrible crime. It is terrible to expose not just one victim, but the many victims who are affected beyond the direct victim, for that. In the Danish People's Party, we have been very interested in this particular subject. The proposal, which we are now discussing from the SF, deserves great praise for the many good elements that are there. This is something we in DF have expressed in the past the desire to have, at least elements. I have also noted that the Minister has set in motion a major work which culminates here at the beginning of 2016, where hopefully it will be possible for a broad majority of parties in the Folketing to take action against this terrible crime. And I think we owe it to the government to wait for the conclusion. When we have that conclusion, we would like to go into this work and provide better conditions for the stalking victims and better opportunities to beat down the criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119110805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119110816	The Social Court estimates that over 100,000 people are subjected to stalking each year. The fear caused by stalking deserves no Dane to live with. That is why I would like to thank the SF rapporteur for resubmitting this resolution. It highlights a very serious problem: those who are victims of stalking and persecution have their lives destroyed by people who are sickly occupied. It is a nasty form of crime that makes it impossible for the victim to have a day-to-day relationship and, as the Left agrees, something needs to be done about it. With the motion for a resolution here, the SF will sympathize, among other things. reduce the processing time of cases relating to stalking. A network for stalking victims will be set up, and it will be opened up to offer a change of identity in particularly serious cases. These are all good initiatives. Then you will require the government to test GPS footbands as a means of fighting stalking. We in the Left are somewhat critical of this. Last but not least, a new provision will be inserted into the criminal code specifically criminalising stalking. This is particularly the last thing that we in the Left think is problematic. Because although it is the position of the Left that something has to be done to help these people who are being stalked today, we are not convinced that a separate provision in the criminal code is the way forward. Instead, the Left considers it more appropriate that we modernise and extend the restraining law that we adopted in 2012. I also expect the government to come up with measures to remedy the problem and strengthen the stalking efforts so that we can come to the rescue of the vulnerable people. The intention behind the SF's proposal is very sympathetic, and that is why it is today a soft rejection of the proposal that I am making on behalf of the Left. I think it is very sympathetic and far along the way a sensible proposal to remedy a very serious problem. In the Left, however, we are not convinced that the solutions proposed here are the solution to the problem. Instead, we believe, in line with the opinion of the Committee on Criminal Procedure, that action against harassment and persecution should instead be done by modernising the rules on restraining orders. Then I look forward to the work and mapping that the Minister of Justice mentioned in his speech, so that we can strengthen our efforts on a well-informed basis. We do not support the motion for a resolution, and I should like to say on behalf of the Conservatives that they cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111119	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111130	In the Enhedslisten, we think that the SF has once again tabled an extremely good motion for a resolution which raises a very important issue. There are many different elements in this resolution that we can wholeheartedly support. To mention just one, I can, for example. mention the need to make an effort to reduce the duration of proceedings. However, I also have to point out that, unfortunately, it is not just for stalking victims that the duration of the proceedings is too long, and that is why we are a little concerned that some specific deadlines are being set for certain specific types of crime, because, if you do nothing else, this will in practice mean that the process is being delayed for some others. On the other hand, we fully agree that there is a need for a specific stalking clause. What it should look like is such a more technical discussion, but we fully agree with the intention. We also fully agree with the intention to set up networks to support the victims. Possibly we need to talk about how to anchor it in civil society or municipal, so that it is not a task for the Ministry of Justice. I can see that the SF rapporteur nods and probably agrees that it is not the task of the Minister of Justice to create networks to support stalking victims. But it is also a very important thing to get a backup for people who are in such a kind of persistent victim situation. In other words, they are victims of a form of crime which does not just pass over so that life can be rebuilt. For some, it will be an almost static and permanent crime that is being committed. And imagine living with being permanently exposed to something so violent. We also think that the proposals on the change of identity are good. One can also talk more about the need to be moved to other municipalities and get a different location and get some financial support for it if needed, as is also known from the protection of witnesses. We also very much agree that alternative forms of punishment should be considered. There are, however, two things that we do not agree with. One of them is GPS footbands. We think that might be too unproportioned in this context. It certainly depends very much on which cases you use it and how to delimit it. After all, it is a question of putting people who are not in detention on such a form of permanent surveillance, and it is enough to go too far. Nor do we believe that it is right to find funding in the victim fund. The victim fund is an innovation and something that Enhedslisten, SF, the Social Democrats and Radicals have stood together to do, and which I am very, very proud that we had done in the last period of government. However, I do not think we should open up the door so that the Folketing can put the trunk in that box and start pulling money up for what we think is convenient. The whole construction of the Offer Foundation is, of course, that it must be independent allocation of funds to victims of crime, and if we on the part of the Danish Parliament start to use that fund, the money can quickly get legs to go on, as my grandmother in Jutland would have said. We can see what happens to the bet pool now. So I think you should stay away from that. But, of course, we can discuss alternative funding. Isn't it possible to find it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111533	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111536	Thank you, and thank you for those nice words. In relation to the last point made by the rapporteur, I should like to hear: is it not the case that not all the funds in the Offer Fund go to victims? It's certainly a discussion we've had, isn't it? I think it's unclear to me. However, the rapporteur has been involved in this for a longer time than I am, so it is really just a question of clarification. Because the sacrificial fund should not go to all sorts of things that have nothing to do with victims at all. I just think that if there is some money that is not being given today to victims, then you could look at spending it here because stalking victims are victims too. But I want to hear something from the rapporteur. Of course, I have also thought about the fact that this gps tracker thing is very far-reaching. I know. You know, you watch people. But it should be in special cases where someone who has been restrained breaks it over and over again. Unfortunately, we know that the police are very busy, and sometimes it is difficult to prove, but when the restraining order is broken over and over again without any sanctions, the victim feels it is extremely insulting that it is not being repressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111650	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111655	I can, of course, have a great deal of sympathy for the latter, i.e. the desire to use it in this way. I would say that if you break a restraining order over and over again, you have to be imprisoned. Then you break some legislation. I would very much like to hear about how we can arrange it in some way, but I think it sounds violent as it is here. In relation to the Fund for Victims, it is true that there has been such a little discussion about where the last money that is not allocated through the Fund for Victims is actually going. And as I understand it, they remain in the victim fund. That is certainly the answer we have received from the Minister of Justice. So there's no fiddle, to put it in layman terms, with that money. They're in the sacrificial fund, and they're gonna stay there. Of course I have great sympathy for spending the victim fund money on victims, but I would say that I know parties here who would also think that a punishment is to do something good for victims, and I think it would be a slippery path of rank. And I do not think that we should open up the door to the fact that political teams decide on that money, but that they can be sought by civil society or for research or other efforts for victims of crime. Networks can, for example. Seek for yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111813	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111816	Thank you. Well, compared to the gps thing, it was also just to stress that it shouldn't be the first step taken. There's a person who gets a restraining order, and then you have to see what happens. Unfortunately, we just hear that there are a lot of people who say: Well, I couldn't prove it. You can do that in several cases now, because we're running around with smartphones and everything. But there are some victims of stalking who say that a restraining order is repeatedly violated, and when they approach the police, they say: Well, she or he may not. Well, there's a need to prove that a restraining order is constantly broken. However, I certainly welcome the rapporteur's intention to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111904	I agree that there may be some evidence problems. In other words, if you are going to be a little polemical, you can say that there are many cases of crime. And the collection of evidence must always be balanced and always proportionate to our freedoms and our legal certainty. The gross interpretation would be to say that then we can put a chip on all of us, so we always know where people are, but we don't want that either. But let's talk about where the cut can be. It is just very important for Enhedslisten that it is proportional.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111941	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119111950	It is said that well begun is half complete. Stalking has crystallized itself as an independent crime. That's why you could also consider that, and I'm just saying that as a side remark... about the crime... maybe you should have a Danish name. But this means that there is a need both intellectually and legally to go into depth about what kind of crime it is and how best to take action against it. Because there is agreement here in the Danish Parliament, so far at least, that this is a very serious crime and there is every reason to take action against it. It must also be imagined that it can become more serious in the future, because the technological possibilities of carrying out the crime are constantly improving, and in this respect it would be worse. In the Liberal Alliance, however, we cannot support the proposal. Apart from the reasons which have already been mentioned and which we agree with, it is also because we simply think that a parallel process is inappropriate which would result both from the implementation of the motion for a resolution and from the fact that the government has put a job into action. In short, we believe that all the good forces that want to do something about this matter should unite. So we will not support the proposal, but we will encourage the SF to go very constructively into the work that has been put in place so that the effort against stalking or what it ends up being called "the best possible way," precisely in view of the fact that well started is half complete.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112150	Thank you, there is a brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112155	Thank you for your kind words. Now it can be said that sometimes to table a motion for a resolution can also set a process in motion. And I also thank the Justice Minister for focusing on this work. Sometimes you can push something along together, so it is quite fair that the rapporteur will not support the proposal, since there is now work in the Ministry of Justice. But we are, after all, a Parliament, and sometimes it is very good to say from the Folketing to the government that we want them to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112231	It is not the intention of what I am saying to overrule the debating effect of political work and that of the Folketing. Having said that, however, it is also intended that good and well thought-out legislation should come out of everything that can protect society and that can protect the victims and that can add to the piece of legislation that we already have. So, of course, I recognise the need to have this debate, but in terms of getting the best possible legislation, I would call for broad political cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112307	There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112315	Thank you. Stalking is an area which, as the SF resolution also describes, is overlooked in the Danish legal system. And as has also been mentioned from up here, it's really unpleasant, and it's scary. It can be very, very violent to have a stalker who persecutes you, and especially when it becomes of a threatening and violent nature. That is why we also think it is important to have a look at how we can legislate sensibly in this area. The elements contained in the SF's proposal are interesting to us, and what I have particularly touched upon here is that we also have an opportunity in the motion for a resolution to suggest that we should look at how to give better safety to the victims of stalking and, above all, how to treat stalkers as well. I think it is very positive that the motion for a resolution proposes that we should think preventively and in the long term. So, with those comments, the alternative will support the proposal. We think it's interesting. I have also heard the Minister for Justice's comments, which I also think are very positive, and I can see that this is where it goes, and of course the alternative would also like to be very constructive in that work. However, we support the SF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112449	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112458	Thank you. But here too, in the Radical Left, we fully agree with the intentions of the proposal, in line with the Minister. There are some elements that I honestly have some doubts about. Increased use of digital ankle chains goes far, but does it work? Is there any experience? I'm willing to hear more about it. As the Minister also explained, in the government in which the SF was involved at the time, we adopted a new law on restraining orders and also stricter penalties. It may well be that it is time to follow it up further. But in this case too, I hear the Minister is very concerned about strengthening efforts. I think it sounds like a very good idea to have the area mapped out so that, in this context, we can decide, of course, with the inclusion of some of the elements of the resolution, hopefully on a presentation by the Minister for Justice in 2016. I am prepared to wait for that work, which is why we do not support the proposal at this stage either. I would also like to add, now I have the time, how good it would be for the victims of stalking, if, on 3 December, we abolished the reservation of law in the European Union and replaced it with an opt-in system, because it will mean that victims of these crimes will have the same protection in other EU countries as they can have in Denmark. We in the Radical Left very much hope that there will be support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112645	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119112657	Again, I would like to thank all the parties of the Danish Parliament and also the Minister. I think it is nice that all the rapporteurs at times when we can disagree on so much else, in such areas as this and the previous one, treat it with the respect and thoughtfulness that I think it also requires. I was also very pleased with the Minister's commitment to start work. That's enough for me now, of course, I'll have to wait and see what it contains, otherwise I'll let you know, sir. Minister. But I appreciate it very much. It is precisely the intention of a motion for a resolution, in other words to get the government to act. And when the Minister then says that he fully agrees with the problem and that we must now have a closer look at it, then I will be very pleased with that announcement. Many of those who have reported what it's like to be a victim of stalking or persecution, or whatever you want to call it, are talking about this feeling of being completely isolated control loss; they can't control anything; they don't know if that person is behind the next corner, or if they are looking through their windows. It's gonna paralyze their lives. It's like being amputated. Must be the most horrible feeling in the world. And I'm really glad that we're going to take another step in securing them better opportunities, maybe also create a framework to get these networks. It is not the State or the Ministry that has to create the networks, but it needs to be given better opportunity to get that contact with other victims, so that you can both come out with some of the experiences and also share the feelings you have been through. I would like to say about this ankle bracelet, that it is very far-reaching and it would only be something that should be put into effect in the event of an absolutely repeated breach of the restraining order. It is quite true what Mrs Pernille Skipper said, namely that repeated breaches of a restraining order must, of course, result in a sanction, for example. prison term. But we are just hearing over and over again that there are no resources to deal with these many inquiries that, after all, come about about breaches of the restraining order. And one thing is as a person to have a stalker or persecutor it's awful enough in itself but if you reach out and you've been told: Yes, there's reason for restraining you, and now you can feel safe, and it doesn't help anyway, or that it's not being followed up, then it has to be another assault where you feel betrayed by the system that should take care of you. I look very much forward to the work of the Minister and hope that we can be briefed on this in committee too, and I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs for the positive statements in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119113015	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119113038	The next item we should have on the agenda is Bill L 57, which is a draft law amending the Food Law, and that is by the Minister for the Environment and Food. But since we are in a situation where the Minister of Food is stuck in a traffic queue and has problems getting there, we have to postpone the sitting and resume the sitting today at 8 p.m. 13.00. It is not the Minister's fault that there is a lot of traffic here in Copenhagen. I think everyone knows that. I believe that everyone who has been to Copenhagen has tried to sit in a traffic queue somewhere. So we're gonna postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130002	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130027	The bill we are dealing with today has its origins in food conciliation 3, which was concluded between the previous government under the leadership of the Social Democratic Party and a large number of the parties of the Folketing. Food compromise 3 had among other things: The aim is to improve the quality of food control and, therefore, food safety, and that is precisely in the light of today's first reading. The draft law basically contains two elements. As the first element, the bill changes the rules for financing campaign-based controls and food supplements control. In the past, the collection of the funding of the campaign-based control was carried out through nutrition letters, but when the nutrition letter was phased out on 1 January, this proposal ensures that the funding of control campaigns under the Food Act is in future provided for in Section 45 of the Food Act. With food reconciliation 3 it was decided to intensify the campaign-based control. The proposal translates this into action, as the proposal contains a desire to increase the industry's payment from 2017 by 17 per cent, which creates better opportunities for campaign-based control. This means increased control of the elements not included in the basic control, such as: documentary and accounting checks and illegal food business, areas where there is a particular risk of fraud. This will result in more complete and flexible control. At the same time, it was decided, in the context of food conciliation 3, to scale down the payments made by companies for the control of food supplements, since this method of control is not considered to be particularly effective. The proposal therefore provides for a 37 per cent reduction in the payment for the financing of food supplements control, which benefits the country's food companies, as it reduces the cost of controls. The food industry has expressed a clear desire to have the opportunity to purchase more guidance in the field of the Danish Food Safety Authority to strengthen food safety, and the other element of the proposal meets that wish. The proposal introduces an opportunity for food companies at the Danish Food Authority to buy additional guidance, which is therefore beyond the basic guidance already provided. It is my view and that of the Socialists that the proposal benefits Denmark's control of food, while at the same time the proposal takes account of and improves the situation of Danish food companies, and on that basis we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130311	No one has asked for brief comments. Next is Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130321	Thank you. When the law on nutrition to certain food companies was repealed with effect from 1 January 2015 and the collection for the campaign control right now is being charged on the basis of a textual note to the Finance Act, it makes good sense to include the rules in the Food Act. Price changes are proposed for the campaign control on the basis of strengthened efforts in 2015. We in the Danish People's Party are pleased with a strengthened and more targeted effort, as a strengthened effort has been a great desire. In the case of food compromise 2, it was decided to strengthen the control efforts in relation to food supplements. This effort has lured into storked vessels, and with food compromise 3 the payment is reduced as the control effort is now reduced to the normal level. It is also suggested that companies that want help and guidance can request guidance visits with user-paid funding. It is good that companies, in addition to the actual verification visit, can obtain help and guidance. The consultation parties are positive about this, and that is a good thing. The scheme must be evaluated after 2 years, and in the Danish People's Party we will follow it closely. When the bill included... is a performance of food reconciliation 3 from April 2015 in which the Danish People's Party is part of, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130459	No one has signed up to short remarks, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130513	Thank you. In connection with the examination of Bill L 57 amending the Food Law, I can say that the Left will vote in favour of the bill. The proposal is one of the following: the execution of the food settlement from April 2015, which was concluded by a broad majority here in the Folketing. This bill will transfer the powers for the collection of payments for the financing of control campaigns from a textual note in the Finance Act to the Food Act. At the same time, there will be tariff changes for control campaigns and control of food supplements, as a consequence of strengthening control campaigns and reducing the control of food supplements. Overall, there will be a lower control frequency and slightly less feeed follow-up inspections than there are today. The draft law also provides for the Minister to lay down rules on the registration of guidance against payment in areas of food law, and companies will therefore be given the opportunity to discuss specific issues with the Danish Food Safety Authority. This is a response to the wishes expressed by the food industry for guidance. And the guidance will be a service which companies will be free to choose whether to use. That is why we in the Left believe that the proposal will benefit the food industry and that is why, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130636	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130647	Thank you. As Enhedslisten's food rapporteur, I will give our rapporteur's speech on this matter. The Enhedslisten supports the bill, which is a follow-up to the food settlement that Enhedslisten is also part of. We say yes to this adjustment of the payment for food control and the reduction of the payment for the control of the establishments handling food supplements. The bill includes an opportunity for the payment of state guidance, and we can support that. Overall, it is incredibly important that we have good food safety and ensure health and healthy food, and there it is important that we have a well-functioning food control. I think it is very good that this bill has been in consultation before it was tabled in the Folketing. I think that is far better than what we are experiencing in these days when something can be rushed through in two days of three legal proceedings. Here we can actually see that the consultation has led to the involvement of the parties before the final draft law is drawn up. I think that is the process we should have about our legal work. I also think it is positive to see that, when there are consultation parties pointing out that something is unclear, the Ministry has replied that it is something that can be dealt with in writing the notice. Then it is a thorough piece of legislation, and I think that is a good thing. I think that should be the case with all legal proceedings. Then I should say hello from the SF and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130818	No one has asked for short remarks, so I would like to thank the rapporteur, who can now go down from the platform, and receive the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119130829	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is certainly in favour of the use of campaign-based control in the Danish Food Safety Agency. Isolatedly, however, the proposed bill from 2017 imposes additional charges on business, which is not exactly liberal enterprise policy. In relation to the introduction of requested guidance, there are also a few comments that I would like to highlight here from the platform, because in itself the need for requested guidance is actually an expression of the fact that bureaucracy has taken precedence and that many of the companies and people concerned do not understand the rules and how they are implemented. It seems basically to call for a debureaucratisation and not for the introduction of new bureaucratic systems, which, in several of the hearings, is also somewhat surprising. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, instead of offering forward-looking cooperation with the Minister, we want to be able to simplify regulation in the area of food in general rather than in the area of food. At the same time, we would like to encourage the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority to focus much more on the existing general guidance, so that companies have a much better understanding of legislation, the tools for compliance with legislation, and an understanding of the interpretation of the law and possible ambiguities in this regard. It is of course essential that, after an inspection visit, companies are left with an understanding of the position of the board and have been given some kind of prior indication as to whether the implementation of concrete improvements will be able to correct established breaches of rules. In the Liberal Alliance, we fear that the introduction of the guidance requested here will simply be a way to fund the existing general guidance, and there will be a grey area where the administration will compete with private advisory companies, and therefore the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131036	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next one is sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131046	The alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131051	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131103	It is no surprise that the Radical Left also supports the draft law, because we are part of the conciliation behind it. Most of it is actually a technical change because the nutrition note has been abolished and the fee that people have to pay for food control was linked up to the nutrition note, and therefore we have to change the law so that the fee revenue still comes in. What is new is that you reduce the fee for food supplements by 37 per cent. There has been a slightly unreasonable overpayment for the industry, and that is why we chose to reduce that cost in this conciliation. Of course, we support this and also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131146	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the SF or Conservatives wishing to speak and will therefore give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131159	Thank you, Mr President. I certainly heard the Enhedslisten's rapporteur express his views on behalf of the SF and say that the SF could support the bill. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the many positive statements and support for the draft law and also for the good discussions that we have had in getting conciliation in this area into proper legislation. I am glad that there is then satisfaction with the things that lie there. In particular, I would like to sign to the Enhedslisten and ensure that the praise for how this piece of legislation has been handled well has been passed on to not least the official work. I would say that as a minister I will endeavour always to comply with the rules of giving the necessary time for consultation and looking at the points of view that come in. I do not promise to take them into account in advance, because it depends entirely on whether I agree with the views expressed, but for me it is at least important that we discuss the different views and angles that may be on the various elements of the draft law. To the Liberal Alliance, I should just like to emphasise that there is a relief in this area. I must admit that it is very complicated because there will be slightly increased payments in some areas and fewer payments in other areas, but overall the calculation is such that the conciliation we are now conducting with the legislative proposal means a total charge reduction of 0.9 million. kr. in 2017 and onwards. The 1.1 million. kr. Increased fee charges listed in the bill will be offset by other charges of a total of 2 million. kr. Annually from 2017 onwards. That's one of them. due to a lower control frequency for the planned fee-based supervision in wholesale undertakings. It is just to get this complicated fee in place in relation to the comments of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then I would like to say to the Liberal Alliance that I am very willing to cooperate with the parties of the Folketing, in terms of whether we can simplify the rules in this area. I must admit that there are many complicated and cumbersome rules, and I am very prepared to take the initiative later on to go through the rules to see if there is anything that could be different today. I think it is really important that we are willing to look at whether we have now arranged things in the best possible way, or whether we have, among other things, arranged things. on the basis of company feedback and storytelling about how this is handled in everyday life, it may be possible to link things together in an easier way, but completely without compromising any food safety at all. For me, it is absolutely crucial that there is great credibility and confidence in food safety in Denmark. It means a great deal to Danish consumers, it means a great deal to reduce the risk of getting diseases because of the food you eat, and I must promise that it also means a great deal abroad, i.e. for our export opportunities. I have just visited China, and if there is something you are interested in, it is to find out how we are so good at ensuring such a strong food control that we actually have of our products. So there were just these comments on the rapporteurs' comments. Thank you for supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131532	Thank you, Minister. A few have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131537	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for your comments. We're gonna keep up with the evaluation of this settlement on requested guidance as well. I understand that, overall, food reconciliation 3 will reduce the fee for companies, but can the Minister not confirm that, in isolation from this campaign-based control system, it will create increased fee financing for companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131610	Yes, I can confirm that, overall, there is a reduction, but that we are certainly changing compared to the controls that have been agreed between the parties. On the advice requested, I would like to say that we have had some thorough political discussions on how and how this should be done, and I share the rapporteur's interest in monitoring how much it is being asked for now. I also agree with the rapporteur that it is of course important that this should not mean ignoring the advice that should be given in connection with the inspections that are being carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131643	There is nothing more from the rapporteur. The next in the line of brief remarks is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131648	Thank you. I would therefore like to congratulate the Minister on this matter for not having responded to the consultation reply from Agriculture & Food on the introduction of fees. I think it is a good thing that the Minister has not responded to that hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131707	Now I can barely stand any more praise from the Enhedslisten today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131712	Is there further from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur? There isn't. Then I would like to thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131732	The debate is open. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119131757	Thank you, Madam President. This can be a really big case for Denmark, and therefore it is also very important how we handle it. This is something we have been discussing for many years here in Denmark, i.e. about and, if necessary, how to grow genetically modified food in the Danish soil. In the social democracy we are sceptical about when and how we should do it, but it has been the case in the past that it was EFSA, the EU Food Agency, who decided on and approved the various products, and then the Member States had to adapt to it. Like Denmark, a number of other countries have wanted it to be renationalised, and our people in the European Parliament have worked for that view, and it has become possible for each country to decide for itself how to do so. So the big question comes only later whether or not we will use that technology and whether we will cultivate it. There are clearly some problems in that, and one of the worst images of genetically modified products is this sugar beet that was invented, where you could pour all sorts of poisons, and then the calm was still left behind. And that was not the point of using more spray poison, but less, which is why there have been a large number of other products. And it is not the case that we are completely opposed to GMO products; Denmark imports lots of soya and maize, but it is just something that is being grown in Argentina, in the United States and elsewhere. However, if we are going to do so, we need to have a discussion at home, and I hope we can have a talk, both here under this point, but also in the Food Committee, about how we should do it. Former Minister for Food, Mr. Henrik Høegh was actually talking about whether we could create some kind of system in relation to e.g. an ecologist gets his products infected with GMOs. Because what is the consequence of that? It is that he cannot sell it; he cannot get the price he originally expected. And we also have huge seed production with conventional products, and if it gets mixed together, we have destroyed it for ourselves. So we have to think very carefully here. The Germans have chosen another solution in which they say that it is the reverse burden of proof, so that you have to take out an insurance policy in relation to the neighbour's fields being infected with GMOs. And it is told that it has become so expensive that no one will do so. We can choose to do it in a way, if that's what we want. I would have preferred that if you had to test it, you would have done it on an island. I'd have almost said it because then we'd sort of have a better handle on it. We also know that it is a great wish of many Danish farmers that there are over 200 Danish farmers who have already taken the GMO licence and are ready for this technology. However, there are a number of problems in what I hope we will be able to deal with in committee. When it is the case that we in the Social Democratic Party have adopted differentiated positions on the issue, it is because we do not want to reject technology. From the outset, we have had something against the technology of using antibiotics to manipulate the products. We think this is really bad. Too much antibiotics are being used, and so there is a risk that it can move from plants into the food chain, and we do not want that. There can be other methods, and that's it. But there are, for example: also drought-resistant maize, and we know that we have had different weather due to our climate change, and it is of course sensible if you can develop a plant that for a period of 14 days or 3 weeks, perhaps a whole month, does not grow, and then suddenly, when heat and rain come, the plant takes hold again. And when we look at how we can provide the world's population with food at all, I think it can be one of the alternatives to the form of production that we know. So I look forward to when we get to get this home to Denmark and in the good Danish Parliament can decide what we want with this, then we can have a good talk about it. But now I have already outlined that the Social Democrats have different opinions, strong, strong opinions about what we are going to bring into play, in relation to whether or not we should cultivate it at home. I think it is a good thing that the resolution has come home, and we welcome it, and then we have to take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132218	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132225	Thank you very much. And thank you for your speech. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there are a great many problems associated with GMOs and with the cultivation of GMOs. After all, the biotech companies promised us that it would reduce the amount of pesticide use it has had the opposite effect. In relation to feed, we can see that there is a lot of evidence that animals get sick when they eat GM feed. And we can also see that when you incorporate Bt toxins as you have done, it looks as if it is damaging natural butterflies. So basically you can just say that those who approved this haven't managed what this really was about. I would ask the rapporteur to be a little more precise: where is it that the Socialists can see that this is an advantage?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132315	I have given an example. You can look at just one product such as. genetically modified maize. It has also been a potato for industrial use only, in other words, where starch is made from it in a production which has nothing to do with food. It could be a few examples of something we could talk about. But in general we are very, very sceptical about it, because if we want to maintain good conventional agricultural production and then alongside organic production, it will be difficult to suddenly get a third area next to or between them. That's what makes this case very, very difficult. And if we say yes first, can we roll it back, and what happens? All those things we need to get our hands on. So I am more sceptical than I am positive about starting to grow it in Denmark. 'Cause we're so small a country, and if you had to do an experiment with this, it'd probably be on an island. And we could hear if Funen would be in charge of such a project. I think neither Læsø nor Samsø would like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132414	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132416	Well, I am very pleased with the rapporteur's scepticism about this. I think that's really good. Now I do not know exactly what kind of corn the rapporteur is talking about, but it is mainly maize that has been seen to have had problems in relation to natural wild butterflies. So the rapporteur mentions a starch potato, but does the rapporteur think that we have managed the risk assessments well enough? We put these things out in nature, out in reality, and then we can see, hovsa, that it spreads over greater distances than we thought, and that it, hovsa, harms wild butterflies. Does the rapporteur think that risk assessments are well under control?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132455	No, that is to say, the whole risk assessment that we have to carry out concerns, for example. conventional maize, which is grown very much in Denmark, too, because a lot of it goes to biogas plants in Germany. It is the case that if you start growing another form, we have to look at the risk in relation to conventional maize and then perhaps GMO maize. And I know that there is no risk assessment of it, either in terms of biodiversity or various other things. That is just what I am saying: before the Social Democrats say yes to it, we must have a good talk. And there, in advance, we are really, really sceptical because we want good assessments of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132531	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132533	Thank you. The rapporteur says that one is sceptical as a starting point, and that is very understandable and quite okay. Now, of course, we cannot deal precisely with this, we will have to deal with specific cases, but will it be the case that the Socialists and the rapporteur will be, if I may say so, so sceptical, so consistent that it will be almost impossible to get it approved if otherwise the professional basis is in place? Is it just that you try to talk it away, or is it really a decision of principle that you just don't want to do this and you want to fight it with your beaks and claws? Is there any way, if the basis is right, that you can come in and look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132612	Yes, that is what happens with a rapporteur from Funen who can be quite good if that is good enough. But what's good enough? We have to define that. If we want this production, we have taken it home from the European Union, and then we are supposed to define for ourselves what it is, we want it to be, and it is fine that there are farmers who have already taken the EU licence and then we have to find out how it should be. I think that depends on what we are talking about in connection with the work we were trying to set in motion, where we asked how far the distance should be to a potato field between two fields, where two different productions are grown, in terms of seeds, which we know can be spread with the wind over very long distances. But we'd like to talk about it. And then it must not be the case that you have just come up with a plan to grow some plants that will then need some more spray poison. It would also be bad for the environment. So there are a great many things that I also think the rapporteur knows we must take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132707	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132709	Now we often have fun with all the good things we fight about whether we should have to go to North Jutland or to Funen. If there should be a crop that is really, really good, then I am sure that Bjarne Laustsen will then also make sure to argue that it could come to North Jutland. Could Mr. Bjarne Laustsen does not see that if it is now clear and that the matter is okay, it might well be considered so that we could get to the situation where we say okay.? The rapporteur will probably not rule that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132738	No, I don't think so. Because on Læsø we know all about that... we've taken the brown bees and the yellow bees. The brown bees are protected, we've taken care of them. I don't think Samsø will go into this part either. That's why I thought of Funen. It is so good in the middle, and there is a long way to the next island, so if you had to make it, then you can comply with all the distance criteria. If you want to discuss this on Funen, you can do it, if you think it's a really, really good idea, but then I'm almost sure it's a no, because you can't agree on that either on Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132807	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132812	I think I would urge the rapporteur to look at what is of experience from other countries. Now we have the special thing in Denmark that we have relatively clean drinking water, and we have to take care of our drinking water in the future, which is why it is important that we limit pesticide pollution in Denmark. If you look at the experience of the United States and Canada, you can see that in connection with the cultivation of GM crops there has been some super-weeds which, in general, requires you to spray even more. So that's the experience. I do not think it is fair that one should take an island in Denmark as a hostage in some attempt. I think it would be a good thing if, in the committee procedure which I look forward to and in which I also look forward to having a good talk with the Social Democrat rapporteur on these aspects, we had the experience of other countries. So I do not think we need to test everything in Denmark that has gone wrong in other countries. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he is aware of the problems in the United States and Canada with super-weeds and herbicide-resistant weeds.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119132909	Yes, the rapporteur is very familiar with this. The Food Committee has also carried out certain inspections, even outside the country's borders, precisely for this purpose, and that is very good, in order to learn more about what it is. And it is clearly a view that our drinking water is unique, and there we should not compromise anything, because we may be able to grow 5%. more by switching to GM products, or whatever. So there would be too much risk if we didn't have the certainty. But there are problems and no matter what type of production we have, it affects the environment. If we are to discuss this from an objective point of view, that must be the difference between what we are cultivating today and if we start to introduce some GMOs, and it is clear that we must also take into account the experience that has come from abroad. But we already think it is good, also because the 28 EU countries are so different, and that is why the European Parliament has been asked to take a decision on this, so that we can renationalise it. And then we will have to do away with ourselves, whether we should at all use the restored right to determine the Danish soil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133011	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133013	Well, I think it is a good debate we are having, and if we are going to take up the factual point raised by the rapporteur, then there are different paths of development. Organic farming is one development route, and it is actually fairly well tested, and we can go in and measure the environmental impact on organic farming, as opposed to what has been seen in GMO farming abroad. It would be an exciting comparison to look at what is at risk there and whether one should choose an agricultural farm where one can have increased biodiversity, reduced pollution and better animal welfare, or whether one should choose something very uncertain with some GM crops. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he will elaborate on the need for drought-resistant crops in Denmark, as he mentioned in his first speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133058	That's the kind of thing you should never reject. In other words, we have seen more and more extreme weather and so on, and if we get into long periods of drought, it may well be that we have to change it. It is also the case that if we look at what we are growing today and the livestock we have today, we can see that it is not the same as what we had 50 years ago. There's always new varieties coming. In my opinion, it is very good to have mixed production, as we had at home in the old days, because there was harmony in the farm, and that is not what we are seeing today. There are places in the world, for example. in Russia, where there are 150 km to the nearest cow, and there are quite different conditions in relation to the cultivation and exploitation of the plants and products that are cultivated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133140	There are no more brief comments to the Socialist rapporteur. Thank you. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133154	The aim of the draft law is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs on their territory. The intention is to have the opportunity to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified seeds and other plant propagating material in Denmark, and that is the right way to go about it. The decision comes home to Denmark, and we're probably the best ones to decide that kind of thing. So, of course, we welcome that. In the Danish People's Party we acknowledge that this is already being discussed. We foresee a huge amount of committee work in connection with this, with the consultation process that is coming, where, as has been said, you obviously have to go to other countries where they grow it here and look at how you do it and get some experience. It's not something that has to be voted home now and here before this Christmas, it's not until next year. It is certain that we in the Danish People's Party are still critical of the use of GMOs. After all, we are opposed to such things as antibiotic markers today, and I would say that we are, in fact, until the sun burns out. So we look forward to the work that must lie in the work that may come but, as I said, with a critical approach to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133324	There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133329	Thank you very much. And thank you for your speech. I fully share the scepticism of the Danish People's Party, and I agree that there is a very important work to be done in committee, in which all of us, all of us MEPs, who will ultimately have to decide on this bill and on how it is to be implemented in practice, should become wiser. I note that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says what the Danish People's Party is against at GMOs. Is there anything about GMOs that the Danish People's Party is for?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133358	Thank you. We cannot reject that here and now, and that is why we are looking forward to this huge committee work, the consultation period that is coming and what these study trips might bring. Well, this is a development that has been going on for a very, very many years, and there is also a development going on here. And if there is anything that can be used forward-looking, then we are no more against it than we can be a part of it. However, as has been said, it must be done on a secure basis. I don't know if Funen's gonna stand for it again. They've had to be tax-free before, and now they have to be GMO-filled, so I don't know if that's the way we're going. However, we must at least make sure that what we are doing is done so that it is as safe as possible in terms of food and nature, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133452	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133454	Thank you very much for your answer. I therefore understand that at this stage the Danish People's Party cannot see that there are places where we can use GMOs on a solid basis for something sensible, and that we now need to look at it, and it may be that the Danish People's Party is changing its mind, but at this point the Danish People's Party cannot point to a particular crop, a particular application, a particular purpose where GMOs are sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133522	Well, today we import a lot of GM maize and soya, so we've moved in relation to it, you might say. So how much more we can move in the long term is hard to say, and that's what this huge committee work has to shed light on, i.e. whether we can go further than where we are today or whether we have to stop here. There is a violent development in the world, so let us look at the opportunities it can offer and whether it can contribute to Danish society. We are completely open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133555	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133600	I note, however, that the rapporteur says that we must move forward on a safe basis. Following on from this, I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware of the experience gained from other countries in the cultivation of GM crops. I am thinking, in particular, of Canada and the United States, where we have come to the conclusion that there is something violent weeds that can tolerate more spray poison, resulting in farmers in both countries having to use more toxins in order to keep the weeds down in the GM crops that they grow. Is that not something that concerns the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133633	Yes. I am quite aware that there are these challenges. That is also why I am now calling for us to go on a study trip during this committee to look at it, and I do not know whether the United States is going to be present, but that is the challenges that are there, and these are the ones we need to be aware of. It is clear that we are not going to spray any more because we have GM crops. That is quite clear, quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133655	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133657	But the rapporteur himself said that Denmark imports so much GM feed and, in particular, genetically modified soya. There have been studies in which some pig producers have tried to feed without using GMOs and where it has emerged that there appear to be some negative effects by using GM feed. I think that these are some very worrying results that have come out of it. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he is aware of the negative experiences and whether this is something that we should involve in the further work of the committee. And then I look forward to going with the rapporteur, not to the United States, but to Spain, where we have to go down with the committee and look more closely at the experience of GMOs that they have there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133742	Thank you for the question. Yes, there may also be some challenges with feed, and we are quite aware of that, and if there are some results that show some inappropriateness, some disadvantages for animals and for animal welfare, then we are willing to look at it too. We've come a step further. After all, it is not like in the European Union where, once we have gone a step further, we can never go back. In other words, when we decide things in here, we still have the opportunity to go back if we see that some of the legislation we have made is not appropriate. So, of course, if there is a problem here, we will also take that into account in any discussion we may have. I look forward to a lively debate between our two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133824	No one else has asked to speak on short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119133844	The legislative proposal we are considering has already been examined by the previous speakers, so I will not do that again, but I shall deal with some of the main points in it. And first of all, I would like to make it clear that in the debate on GMOs it is very important that we deal with the many opportunities that technology also offers us. A healthy scepticism as an approach to it at the present time is fine, and it is also good that we have it examined thoroughly and thoroughly. And that is exactly what the draft law here allows when it is, I hope, adopted. With GMOs it is possible to re-splicate crops so that they can produce more, grow under difficult conditions and become resistant to pests, so that pesticide consumption can also be reduced. This is something that we are very concerned about here in Denmark. This can in many ways help to address some of the major challenges in the food sector that we face, also in the wider world, and not least in developing countries. After all, the aim of the draft law is to implement the necessary legislative changes in order to comply with the so-called Barroso Directive on the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs. Denmark will in future be able to ban the cultivation of GM crops by presenting objective reasons why a particular GMO crop cannot be allowed in Denmark. This ensures that concerns about food safety and the unintentional spread of GMOs can be met without prejudice to the fundamental principles of free competition and the free movement of goods within the European Union. In addition, the draft law allows the Minister for the Environment and Food to lay down specific rules for coexistence. The purpose of this is to prevent the accidental spread of GMOs, e.g. also in relation to other countries close to which the cultivation of the GMO crops in question has been prohibited. This is also part of the Barroso Directive. And the Barroso Directive is the result of the fact that it has not been possible in the European Union to bring together a qualified majority in order to produce common legislation with common rules, as has been the case so far, for which GM crops can be grown within the European Union. In fact, it has not been Denmark's wish either, since a majority in the Folketing has wanted EU legislation allowing national bans on GMO crops to be introduced, if that could be justified objectively, if I may say so. One of the reasons is that it is a very sensitive area with strong interests both locally and nationally, and at the same time it is no secret that there is a great deal of scepticism about GMOs, including among the many different environmental and consumer organisations. Conversely, the sluggishness of the decision-making process in the European Union has led to the absence of any useful rules for the food industry, and thus, as it were, the EU is lagging behind the rest of the world in terms of exploiting the opportunities offered by technology. But, of course, it must be done on a secure basis; no one can disagree with that. It is essential that there is a common framework for EU legislation in the area of GMOs. GMO crops can spread in the form of pollen and seeds, which is why it does not matter which rules and varieties a neighbouring country has allowed if necessary. With this legislative proposal and directive, we will have a common framework within the European Union, and that is a clear advantage both for those countries that want to allow more GMOs and those that want to limit it as much as possible. The Barroso Directive and the resulting legislation are, in the view of the Left, a practical way to find a solution to the political challenge posed by GMOs. It is a solution that very much respects the wishes of individual EU members, including Denmark, which has traditionally adopted a cautious, hesitant attitude towards the use of GMOs. On that basis, of course, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134244	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134247	Thank you for a really, really long speech that didn't tell me anything like that. I heard it about how the Left is actually going to use the regained freedom for you to decide for yourself. I think it is a welcome opportunity when you have the most distinguished platform in the whole country to tell you what you think about this. Are we gonna have GMOs or not? Is that the answer to the crisis and the challenges of agriculture? If so, what can be solved? I might as well ask immediately: did the rapporteur intend to do so on Funen?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134317	Well, I can answer that very simply, because it will be on a case-by-case basis. If, after having had it fully examined here and if there is a completely clarified basis for decision-making, you come to the conclusion that it is good, you have to say yes, and if, on a factual basis, you come to the conclusion that it is bad, you have to say no. That is why it will be on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134338	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134339	Yes, but I just want to know if the rapporteur is entirely in agreement with his minister, whom I have heard many times say that it is okay that we can start producing. But it is not certain that message has gone further. That's how we experience it sometimes. It is a little strange that a government-supporting party which has a strong link with agriculture has not clarified its position on whether to say yes or no to this and, if so, what requirements will be made to enable them to grow GM crops in agriculture. For that is a desire of agriculture, and if there is a majority in the Folketing, you have to deal with it. That's why it's important to know what the Left thinks if they mean something in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134418	Well, it is very simple, and I have answered that very precisely, because that is what is the whole idea and the basis here, namely that we can go in and look at it on a case-by-case basis. And if it is that you come to the conclusion that it is a good thing that it has been examined from one end to the next, so to speak, and that you can do so without any reservations about it in one way or another, that is to say it is good to do so, then of course you have to say yes. And, of course, if you don't come up with it, you have to say no. That's what this whole exercise is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134444	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134447	Thank you very much. I hear that the rapporteur says that we must approve these GMOs if it is done on a sound and secure basis, well, properly and safely. The rapporteur then mentions a number of good prospects for GMOs, among others. they can become resistant to pests and they can reduce pesticide consumption. With all due respect, it sounds a little like the rapporteur reading from such a sales brochure from Monsanto or Syngenta or some of those who produce these GMOs, because out in the real world we can see that the risk assessments made by EFSA have not been good enough at all. It was believed that incorporating a Bt toxin would not harm natural species. It did. You didn't have it under control. It was thought that this would reduce pesticide consumption. It didn't. The opposite was the case. Does the rapporteur really trust that what comes from EFSA is a good and solid and proper basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134551	Now it is very rare that the Left and the Enhedslist come to the same political assessments of a matter, and the future must then show whether we will get to it, but I can only say that I can hear that Enhedslisten has the biased opinions and conclusions in this matter. I am not going to interfere with that, it is just a statement. I think it is fine that we should then go into the fact that we are going to have this checked on a case-by-case basis. That's exactly what's meant to be and, more specifically, it's almost impossible to tackle it when we're about to tackle these different things that come. We must be open to new opportunities, but this must be done on a proper and objective basis, on which we have also heard previous rapporteurs express their views.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134628	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134630	In principle, EFSA is not a political organisation. In principle, it should be an authority that should ensure health, which should ensure our nature, which should ensure that we do not approve crops that can have negative effects on nature, health, the environment, etc. They haven't lived up to that. Yet it is still the EFSA that we rely on when we need new GMOs approved. What is it that makes the rapporteur, when you can see that they have been wrong, confident that EFSA will set some GMOs in the future that you have an overview and control of for Danish approval?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134710	As I indicated in my first answer, I think it is a little bad if you have the approach to it that you have absolutely biased views on it. I do not think that the EFSA should be criticized here at this stage, but, of course, it should look at the whole thing and, of course, it also includes EFSA, so as a starting point we should have confidence in the institutions that we have set up ourselves. Should there then be individual cases, I shall not interfere with it right from here, but we must look at the case-law all around so that we have a whole basis for decision-making. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134742	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134744	If we are now to hold on to some objective content and what the rapporteur stressed was, of course, that there would have to be some factual reasons, in relation to the fact that we were dealing with allowing GM crops or not and looking at the experience of the United States and Canada, in reality, it is not a question of what position I am taking. Then it is a question of what experience farmers in the United States and Canada have gained after trying to grow GM crops and see how herbicide-resistant weeds can grow up and demand more spray poison if it is to be kept down in relation to a crop that farmers want to grow. We are therefore in a position to assess this on the basis of an agricultural subject, and we can assess it on a case-by-case basis. Will this sort of thing be part of the Left's relationship with GM crops in Denmark, that is to say that there are other countries that have experience with GM crops, or will the rapporteur only stress that it is crops that have to be grown in the Danish soil, for example. on Funen, as mentioned earlier? I would like the rapporteur to say that there are negative experiences from other countries. Will this be part of the rapporteur's position and assessment of the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134854	Of course. We involve all the experience and information and facts, and what else can be scraped together by relevant knowledge, in order to provide a complete basis for decision-making. That's whether it's plus or minus. That is precisely what is meant by proper and thorough processing. It all has to be on the table, both plus and minus, otherwise you won't get a proper basis for decision. It's logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134914	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134917	Now it is probably most likely that GM crops that can enter the fields will be something that will be included in livestock feed in Denmark. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of the negative results that have proved to be by feeding pigs in Denmark with GMOs?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119134937	As other rapporteurs have pointed out, we hear from time to time both pluses and minuses in this area here. Nothing should be swept off the table from the start, we should scrape it all together and take it into account. It is also the case that the world is evolving continuously and you become more skilled and more skilled. That is why, of course, we should not have preconceived positions in advance, but be open to looking into things. And as I have answered in the past, this has to be dealt with thoroughly on a case-by-case basis, and if you come to the conclusion that it will all be good, then it is fine to say OK, but if you come to the conclusion that it is not good, but bad, then you have to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119135009	No one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119135021	The bill we are discussing here today is the transposition of an EU directive into Danish law. It is a directive that allows Member States to decide for themselves whether genetically modified crops should be grown on their territory. The reason why it has become the case that the Member States have been given the opportunity to decide for themselves is that the process has been deadlocked in the European Union for many years, so that what is normal practice in the European Union, namely that the European Union approves, and then the Member States have to do as the European Union has said, whether they like it or not, simply cannot function. In Enhedslisten we are very strongly opposed to GMOs, and we have long wanted Denmark to adopt a general ban on all GMO cultivation. We therefore welcome the fact that this draft law now gives us a better opportunity to introduce national bans. There are numerous arguments for banning GMOs, for example. from an environmental point of view, because studies indicate that cultivation of pesticide-tolerant GM crops significantly increases pesticide consumption rather than reduces it. It is so in stark contrast to what the biotech companies have promised. In fact, reduced pesticide consumption has been one of the main arguments on the part of GMO producers. The increasing pesticide use in GMO fields is due, among other things, to weeds developing resistance to pesticides. You get what in the United States has been baptized superweeds, and therefore it takes far more poison and often transition to tougher means to keep the weeds down. The same applies to the weeds that have been fed a gene that produces toxins that are toxic to insects, for example. Bt-toxins. What we can see is that insects also become resistant to the poison, thereby increasing pesticide consumption, and the farmer has to switch to far tougher means. In addition, there is evidence that Bt maize, that is maize that has incorporated this gene, also harms butterflies, for example. day peacock eye living near the field exposed to pollen from the Bt maize. This is an unprecedented risk of growing GM maize. In addition to being a threat to nature and animal species, GMO also poses a threat to the possibility of growing organic farming. This is because there is a high risk of GMO crops spreading. For example: large areas of Canada are so contaminated with GMO oilseed rape pollen that it is not possible to grow organic oilseed rape. Experience from Spain is also that in areas where the majority of crops are GMO maize, organic maize is impossible to grow. All in all, GMOs are a bad thing. We have absolutely no idea what risks there can be to health and the environment, and the better opportunities we have in Denmark to block GMOs, the better. There is still a lack of committee work, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, where we will see what arguments Denmark can use precisely to ban GMOs. We look forward very much to having the debate, to getting the light on that. We are also going on a study trip where we can learn more about all of this, and I look forward very much to the debate with all the other rapporteurs from the parliamentary parties. What remains, and hopefully clear, is that Enhedslisten supports this bill. I would like to welcome the SF and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119135417	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119135424	Thank you, President. The Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal put forward. Our 'no' vote is primarily justified by the fact that the proposal is a form of over-implementation, as the Release Directive does not contain a real commitment to implementation. It is also crucial for Danish agriculture and plant production to be able to use a wide range of processing technologies to maintain competitiveness. This will effectively weaken the competitiveness of parts of Danish agriculture in relation to countries where genetically modified crops are allowed to grow. A national ban on genetically modified crops can result in Denmark becoming less part of international research and development of crops, which responds to some of the major challenges facing food production, for example. in relation to any consequences of climate change. This also applies to the development of crops with better quality and nutritional properties or better ability to use nitrogen. The Liberal Alliance does not see genetically modified crops as something that must be banned, but rather as part of a general development towards improving food production throughout the world. Genetically modified crops can become essential in the future in our ability to produce enough food for the world's ever-growing population. The perspectives are potentially large. The Liberal Alliance generally does not want to increase the restrictions on agriculture, especially when genetically modified crops can even be of great benefit to the world community in the future. The Liberal Alliance therefore does not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119135620	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119135635	As a starting point, the alternative is positive about the opportunities offered by the Barroso Directive. With this directive, each Member State of the European Union will be able to be exempted from authorisations to grow genetically modified crops, and this means that the concerns that a majority of the Folketing has shown in connection with the first permits we recently saw for growing GM maize can be met in the form of crop exemptions or bans. The concerns have already been mentioned today by several of the rapporteurs and are about the risk of increased use of pesticides, possible negative effects on sensitive species in nature, on livestock itself and even on the economic situation of the farmer. However, I would also like to highlight in particular the risk that the conversion to organic production in Denmark will be threatened by the use of GMOs, because there may be pollution that is incompatible with organic production and that spreads from the fields where the GMOs may be allowed. The mechanism of the directive may seem a little worrying in the sense that, as a Member State, if you apply for the crop premium, it can, for example, be applied for. be a democratic majority in the Danish Parliament, which asks for the cultivation allowance... the company that has applied for the permit may choose to ignore this request. In other words, companies' desire for market access is higher than that of the Member States' democratic majority. If you want to go for a specific ban, which the company must comply with, you will have to obtain heavy evidence that this particular GMO crop can have a particularly negative effect in the country concerned. Again, therefore, the company has a special position vis-à-vis the Member State when the general authorisation is granted by the EU agency handling the permits. As has already been said, in this Assembly a majority has already emerged against authorisations for the cultivation of GM crops in Denmark, and I hope that this majority will continue to hold. Therefore, the alternative in the committee work would have liked to have examined further the possibility that in the Danish implementation we can ensure some kind of mechanism that reflects the Danish position more generally, so that the law is so arranged that permits for GM crops are automatically exempted from Danish territory. In this way, we will create more effective legislation that minimises the troublesome work of having to follow all the individual and almost identical applications for authorisation to use GMOs in the European Union and take a stand on each individual case and deal with all these issues in both the Committee on the Environment and Food and in the European Committee. The alternative is therefore positive in terms of implementation, which includes such a solution, but is generally critical of the present wording of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119135931	No one has signed up to short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. Nor is there a rapporteur from the Radical Left present. We have received a greeting from the SF by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and there is no rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party present. That then means that the word is given to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119135951	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their largely positive comments and the widespread support for the draft law. I have to sign up to the Liberal Alliance and say that I have full respect for the argument. What is important for me to highlight, as several people have mentioned it, is the way we approach the GMO cases in Denmark. Since the 1990s, the political line in the field of genetic engineering at home has been to make our decision on the individual GMO on a scientific, objective and well-informed basis. This case-by-case approach ensures that each time we relate specifically to the individual GMO and how it is modified, and what imports and cultivation mean for the environment, health and whatever else is relevant. That is the line that has been taken, and that is the line that is in the Folketing and that has been supported by a broad majority. The government will continue this case-by-case approach. This means that, on a scientific and factual basis, we will take a specific position on each approval of GMOs after the involvement of the relevant committees in the Folketing. In fact, it is also following up on the legislative proposal relating to the proposal for adoption adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly. This is what is called V 83 where a unanimous Parliament instructed the government in office at all times within the EU to work for national decisions on GMO cultivation. So that's what we're going to do. I noted that a number of rapporteurs mentioned the importance of large-scale committee work in this area. I understand that the committee is going on a study trip to Spain in the new year, and I just want to say that we do not need to rush the work of the committee on this matter. It is easy to extend the duration of treatment in relation to what is normal. Nor are we going to make the four cases we have dealt with recently in the Danish Parliament because I have just received feedback that the crop exemption in the four cases requested by the Danish Parliament has been accepted. So here and now we don't have any hurry. I think it was Mr. Ib Poulsen, who said that there is now a need to have a lot of questions put and to have a thorough examination of the committee, and so there is plenty of time to do that in connection with this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140245	A few have asked to speak on short points. First, it's sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140249	Thank you for your answer. What I am thinking of is that I should be very wrong if I do not know the Minister's position on this, which is largely positive. What puzzled me was that the rapporteur of the Left would not report on it at all, but we have to look at it and something like that. And you never get wrong with saying that. But it is still strange, I think, that one of the governing parties cannot come a little closer to it. What is also interesting is that they say that some conditions must be met. As I mentioned, when he was Minister for Food, Henrik Høegh started to look at the protections that would have to be provided if it were to be implemented, in other words, all the measures that need to be taken. And I wanted to hear what happened to it; whether it was something that would be resumed in these months of case handling. I asked to learn how to do so, as well as how to do it. I also think that if the committee is going to travel I didn't know this could also be looked at areas in Denmark where it might be interesting to grow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140351	I think that the rapporteur from the Left explained fairly precisely what our approach is to these GMO cases, namely that we are looking at them on a case-by-case basis. This is also what we have done in connection with the last four requests for cultivation authorisation. Each case has been specifically assessed. And as I mentioned just now, on a scientific, factual and well-informed basis, we are dealing with matters in the Folketing. I think that is the right starting point, and I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left, who made it clear just now that it is the right approach to deal with matters on a case-by-case basis, where we can then get the assessments, in relation to what might be risky to take into account. If cultivation were to be permitted in Denmark, we have already adopted the so-called co-existence rules many years ago, which lay down the conditions under which it can take place. In particular, it is the distance requirements that are important here in relation to, I think, the issue which, among other things. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding referred to the interaction between conventional and ecological, and that was Mr. Bjarne Laustsen himself too. There we have dealt with the necessary demands in it, it is called the law of co-existence, whoever came up with the title of the law, but that is what it is called.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140513	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140515	That is not enough at all. Well, we're never gonna finish this job. And I hear that the Minister is prepared to scrap the work that Mr. Henrik Høegh went on to say that it doesn't matter, and that now we're just looking at the coexistence rules that you've looked at many, many years ago. New technology, new knowledge, which needs to be included in this issue. What I think is that the Minister already has a biased view that we should just do that. That is why you are prepared to say to the system that you say yes to that. And, of course, it is up to the Folketing whether they will accept the basis on which the Minister comes as a given thing. But I just think that if you really have to do something and you want to do this, you have to make a proper basis on which to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140559	I know there is a consensus that we have a very good set of rules in force through the law of coexistence. And I am aware that no specific requests have been made for changes to be made to that legislation. If so, I will, of course, look at it and look at the reasons for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140616	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140619	Thank you very much. Now it is the case that, in future, if EFSA approves a GMO, we as a Member State will have the opportunity to decide whether we think it should also be on our territory. We can see that in EFSA's risk assessments in the past there have been some shortcomings I have mentioned before. Among other things: The effects of Bt toxins on butterflies have probably been underestimated. It has been underestimated whether this would lead to increasing or decreasing pesticide consumption. I would like to hear from the Minister what her position is: with what arguments does the Minister envisage that, following a EFSA assessment, we should be able to reject a GMO? What is it that the Minister will look for in particular in relation to saying no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140710	I will continue as before, namely to ask the Danish professionals about their assessment. I think it is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding aware that the recommendations I have made to the Danish Parliament have included both EFSA's assessment and the Danish experts' assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140726	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140728	So it should be understood in this way that if the Danish researchers arrive at a position that is contrary to EFSA's recommendations, then can we expect the Minister to be prepared to reject the GMO?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140742	I will assess this when I know the position and the arguments and know what is up and down in those matters, and I will ensure that all the information comes to the Folketing and thus can be included in the political assessment that the political parties have to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140756	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140759	Thank you. In the type of recommendation notes we have seen in the committee work, which are the basis for the processing of GM maize applications, there are some wordings in the description of a GMO maize enriched with a gene against a specific pest. In the general description there is a recommendation that it is okay and safe to use here, but a little further down there is so typically a formulation that you still recommend a certain safety distance to areas where there may be butterflies that may be sensitive to this. Does the Minister see this as a safe assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140850	So, I think it is important to take into account what has been said about the need for a longer distance in the specific case, or what is it about? And then I cannot explain precisely on a stand-by basis whether this flexibility is incorporated into the law of coexistence. But I can only repeat what I said to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen: I know the assessment is that the rules we have in the field are fine and will be applicable in the case there may be an authorisation for cultivation. However, I would like to say again that this is not a topical issue in that we have just asked for an opinion on the presentations on cultivation that have been made and that it has been accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140937	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140938	So the Minister sees it as a strong enough application of the precautionary principle when you give approval anyway, even if you recommend a certain safety distance to sensitive species?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119140953	In other words, as I said, it will be a repetition unless I do not understand the question: we have rules on how and how a possible cultivation of a GMO crop can be carried out in conjunction with other areas of cultivation, among others. organic farming. I am aware that the rules are considered to be adequate and appropriate in the case of cultivation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141026	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and Food. No one else has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141044	The debate has been opened, and the first in the series of rapporteurs is Mr Cryer. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141105	Today we are discussing the government's proposal to abolish peripheral areas. There is no doubt that we are dealing here with a legislative proposal that shares the waters. On the one hand, farmers rejoice that they are getting rid of the peripheral zones, while on the other hand, the green organisations of the country beat the sign of the cross for themselves. I understand the reaction of both parties, and it also underlines that this matter is not so straightforward. Randzones were set in the world to protect a fragile environment by the former bourgeois government. There is no doubt that the peripheral zones have at the same time hampered the productivity of Danish farmers, but there is no doubt that the peripheral zones have been a benefit to the environment. It is therefore with good reason that there are strong positions on the peripheral areas. In this case, the government has sided entirely with the farmers, and I think that is simply too one-sided. I fully agree that there is an employment effect in abolishing peripheral areas, and I do not want to overlook that either, but there are other considerations that should be borne in mind. It seems to me that the situation is somewhat similar to a situation in which the government, figuratively speaking, has a set of twins to take care of and ensure a good upbringing in the same house, in the same ministry. One twin could be called our farmers and the other our environment. So far, the government has left one twin a little over in the corner of the ministry, and the twin has to watch while the other twin packs up gifts, one after the other, and I do not think that is fair. When the government puts forward a proposal that will increase nitrogen emissions in the aquatic environment by 1,100 tonnes per year to help farmers, we in the Social Democrats also believe that there is a need for measures to deal with the increased environmental impact. We have yet to hear the Minister's offer. Despite questions, consultation, etc. drives the government off at full speed in the highest gear with relaxations to agriculture and thus also in reverse in relation to the environment. Of course, we must ensure proper framework conditions for our farmers. It creates growth and employment throughout Denmark, and I am also behind this as a social democrat, a hundred percent, but it cannot be right that it should be at the expense of the environment that we all bear a responsibility to maintain and hand over to future generations. It is the clear policy of the Socialists that there must be a balance between environmentally harmful and environmentally friendly measures. As the country is with this proposal, that is not the case. I therefore hope that in future negotiations on the growth package for the food industry, which I hope and will also call for the Minister to convene, to find common ground and to reach a broad agreement which will also take account of the environment. There is a need for a broad agreement that creates stability, growth and security for Danish farmers and, at the same time, looks after our environment. As it is still unknown whether the government intends to present initiatives that pick up on the increased environmental impact, the Socialists want, for the reasons I have just mentioned, to postpone our final position on the proposal for a third reading, and we are therefore looking forward to thorough committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141438	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141448	Thank you. What we are discussing here is part of the 16-point plan. In the morning of time there was something called "Green Growth" that this thing with the peripheral zones came into. It has been difficult to find out, it has been difficult to find the different streams, some have gone through the parcelhouse areas, some have crossed the airfields, etc., and it has been difficult to meet the goals that were with the 50,000 hectares in the morning of time. The previous government then tried 25,000 ha. It didn't work out either. It has been very difficult to compensate farmers for the expropriation of their land. There has been a case in Holstebro that has shown that he was right. It is clear that in the Danish People's Party we are aware of the environment also in this case, and that is why among other things. such things as the river basin plans are part of the work forward-looking, so that emissions do not increase. We're about to measure out in the fjords how much nitrogen comes out. It is a much safer method than in the old days, when you had to put things into a spreadsheet, and then things didn't fit anyway. So in this case we follow the argument that here too we should have as much environment as possible for the money, so the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141625	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141628	Thank you very much. The Danish People's Party is going to comply with the wishes of a group of farmers, and it is a group of farmers who find it very annoying that they cannot only be allowed to pollute as they please, but that they must also take account of the rest of society. The Danish People's Party seems to think this is a very important matter, even if it affects all sorts of other groups in society; e.g. the people who like to travel in our nature; the people who care about nature; the people who think we should leave nature in a decent condition to our children and grandchildren; those who like to stay in the peripheral areas that, after all, bind nature better together than before the rim zones came; the anglers who feel away contribute 3 billion. kr. Annually to our economy, and which tells how it is that there are now peripheral zones, it makes being an angler a completely different experience. Does not the Danish People's Party also consider it important to do something for all the others who are happy with the peripheral areas, which are, moreover, a very targeted and very effective instrument?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141735	Unlike the questioner, I think, I was born and raised in nature, by nature and by nature, and I have never walked in a peripheral zone yet. There's plenty of nature out there. We have said here that we have to do away with these peripheral zones that some people have come up with, and we also say that something else is going to come up instead. It's not like we're just gonna let everything happen in nature. We think it is important that there is a method here and that is what we should be debating about how to compensate for this. There's this discharge on the 1,100 tonnes of nitrogen, and we're going to have to find it in another way, and I'm totally confident that we're going to find it. So there's gonna be plenty of nature if you'd like to come to Jutland someday and take a walk with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141829	It's a beautiful offer, but you have to remember that we're not indicting you here in Parliament. Then I give the floor again to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141837	I shall then look forward to a walk in Jutland with the rapporteur, where the rapporteur can show me all the nature there is. There has just been an inventory showing that we are the country that has least protected nature in the European Union. So it must be said that when we say that we remove 25,000 ha of peripheral zone while our protected section 3 areas are being fertilised and sprayed, it does not look very good. I would just like to ask the rapporteur something: does the rapporteur not at all recognise that there are some people, among others. anglers, among others: people who care about nature who are fond of the rim zones?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141914-2	Yes, it is quite clear that there is, and there are also hunters who think that these peripheral zones are good for hunting and so on, but it will be a voluntary scheme. The farmer can easily continue with peripheral zones if he wishes and, as I say, the Cabal must go up, there must be balance on the bottom line, the farmer must get more out of this, but there must also be no less environment when we have finished the 16-point plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141947	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119141949	Thank you for the floor. After all, agriculture is in crisis, has a very large debt and, unfortunately, many farms are threatened with closure. It's deeply tragic. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur imagines that by giving this one per cent of the agricultural area back to cultivation, and that is often wet areas without particularly good farming opportunities, we can save agriculture. How much help will it be to give back these peripheral areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142024	It is true that 16 points are on the way, and this is one of the points, you might say. The rapporteur thinks that this corresponds to approx. 1% I think it's a little more than that, but all these points need to be combined to make us do a little more for agriculture. As you say, it is in deep crisis, and of course we are responsible for doing something about it. We can't just stand by and let it all turn into nature. There must be room for agriculture, there must be room for nature, so that is why we are doing this exercise, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142112	I would remind you once again that we do not use the puppet here in the Folketing. Sir. Christian Poll is done. The next one is sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142124	Thank you to the rapporteur. I find it interesting that something has been said along the way from the platform, which really sounds rather like what the Social Democrats also said, and what I myself, as rapporteur, said from the platform, namely that the environmental impact should be picked up. At least this was supposed to go to zero. I was surprised that the Danish People's Party was the co-signator of the 16-point plan. Why was it not ensured that the environmental bill went into zero when the 16-point plan was drawn up? And perhaps even more interesting: will the Danish People's Party not vote through the 16-point plan if the environmental bill is not fully collected?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142207	Thank you. Now it is sometimes this way that questions are answered with questions, and then I would like to ask whether Mr. Simon Kollerup can prove that this bill doesn't go to zero, because I'm sure it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142227	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142228	We don't really get any figures from the minister, so it's a little difficult, but at least we can see some really big chunks in this 16-point plan... changed fertilization standards, peripheral zones, other measures for the benefit of agriculture... but we miss seeing measures to pick up this increased environmental impact. There is just my question whether we are really a little in line with each other in DF and Social Democracy if we agree that we cannot vote for a 16-point plan unless the environmental impact is matched by equally strong environmental measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142303	I am convinced that we can agree here. I can hear from the questioner that we can, because of course this has to go to zero. That is the whole prerequisite for us to get on with it. We need to help agriculture, but it should not be at the expense of the environment, so we will come up with a bill with zero on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142324	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142327	When I signed up to ask, it's because it's gonna be really interesting. That is why I hope that the rapporteur will bear in mind that I should just be quite sure what the rapporteur is saying. If the bill cannot go to zero, as the rapporteur put it, that is, if we do not compensate for the environmental impact of the 16-point plan, then the Danish People's Party cannot support the 16-point plan. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142358	It is the case that we have 16 points to debate. They must be of benefit to agriculture and not to the detriment of the environment. We sit here and have to negotiate in place so that all things are weighted and then we find a solution. I am absolutely convinced of that. Whatever it may look like at the end, it will be the case that the Danish People's Party will be able to see itself in that agreement. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142426	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142428	Yes, but can Dansk Folkeparti see itself in an agreement where the environmental impact is not fully compensated or can Dansk Folkeparti not see itself in an agreement where the environmental impact is not fully compensated?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142442	Now it is a hypothetical question, because no one knows what the negotiations will end with. There can be pluses and minuses on both sides, which you can't tell here. So I cannot give any guarantee to the questioner. I am quite confident that in the dialogues and negotiations that we will have, we will find a common solution and a solution in which the Danish People's Party can see itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142508	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142522	Thank you. Randzones have not worked as they were thought to work when they were introduced. They have had virtually no environmental impact, at least a very small effect. They are very damaging to farmers, and it is therefore very good that we should now take the initiative to abolish them. In connection with the examination of the bill here on the repeal of the law on peripheral areas, the Left will of course vote in favour, as the proposal is part of the VKO's food and agriculture package, the so-called 16-point plan, which forms part of our government basis. And it is of course a great pleasure for me to stand here today and deal with this bill, because at last we can get rid of the peripheral areas which have been too heavy a burden on Danish agriculture. With this bill, we are ensuring that the raw material base is increased and that benefits growth and employment in rural areas. The Randzone Act has been the expression of such a more general model of regulation, where the same requirements have been made, regardless of and independently of local circumstances. This is what we are doing in this legislative proposal, and instead of focusing on environmental action, the Left will, of course, take action with the measures that may be necessary in those places, so that things are done in balance with the environment, one might say. In addition to the fact that the Random Zone Act has been an inefficient form of environmental regulation and, as I have mentioned, also with little effect, the peripheral zones have also had serious economic consequences for the industry. According to a report by DCA, National Centre for Food and Agriculture, the current costs of the profession to the general peripheral areas are approx. EUR 50-100 million; kr. annual. It could also be added here that there would be a considerable impairment of the land if it went completely out of service, which could also have other serious effects on the economy. I shall not go any further into that, because fortunately we are going the other way. That is why, of course, it is gratifying that with this proposal we will finally be able to repeal the Random Zone Act and that we will be able to take these around here. 25 000 hectares of agricultural land in cultivation again, and so, of course, we also want to make it clear that overall it must be in balance with the environment. Nowhere does it say that it is proposed to reduce the environment, and of course we do not want to do so in the Left, but we want to ensure that growth and employment in the sector can get under way again for the benefit of rural areas and therefore also for the food sector. And, of course, we are about to have a financial law put together, and there is also a need for some revenue. So in the Left, we are pleased that we can now get to work on abolishing these peripheral zones, and that is why we will of course vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142810	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142812	Thank you very much. What the Left is abolishing today is an instrument that helps us to achieve both the Water Framework Directive, the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. Now, instead of finding other instruments that will enable us to meet the obligations we have, both in accordance with the directives, but certainly also with our descendants, who must also have a nature that is in order. Does the rapporteur recognise that we are still not in the target when it comes to the Water Framework Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142856	I have clearly indicated in my rapporteur's speech that the things we are now putting forward by the government and the Left must be done in balance with the environment. After all, no one is proposing to reduce the environment. We still need clean water in our taps, etc., no doubt about it at all! You might be making different scenarios, making up different scenarios that now it's just the black one, because we're abolishing this. No, it's not. You can also see, if you read in the case papers, that it is a very poor effect that it has had in relation to nitrogen and such things. Well, then it's perfectly natural to look at it one more time. When it was introduced, it was thought that it would have a much stronger effect. We were told there on the basis of the best knowledge one had at the time that it was the best instrument. Ergo, that's what you had to use. Now there's new knowledge, and we'll make some new decisions. But we must take care of the environment. No one is in doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142949	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119142951	Randzones are still gone one of the best and most effective instruments we have, and it is targeted because it is exactly where it makes the most use, namely along our watercourses and around our lakes. There is no doubt about that at all. However, I understand that the rapporteur recognises that we are still not in the goal when it comes to the Water Framework Directive, and I agree with that. We still don't have good ecological condition in our aquatic environment. That is why we need to come up with even more measures so that we can achieve objectives. And that is why it will always be nonsense when it is claimed that what we have done to comply with the Water Framework Directive should be over-implementation. It is still a matter of under-implementation, and I assume the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143045	When I hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur speak, it sounds very much as if it were so rigid, biased positions. I have no expectation that Enhedslisten and the Left will come to the same assessment. I would just like to make it clear that it is the Left's view that these things must be carried out in balance with the environment, and we will also be able to document this once we get through things. I can then refer to the previous rapporteur from the Danish People's Party: we need to get things going if we can put it that way. And we'll document that as we get there. We just stand by a completely crucial choice: will we have effective Danish agriculture in the future, which can produce some raw materials for our food companies, secure a great many jobs, slaughterhouses, feed companies, transport companies and everything? Yes, we will, and that is why we must address it, but in balance with the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143129	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Maja Panduro, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143134	Thank you. First of all, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to remind us who introduced the peripheral zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143146	I'll do that. This was done under the previous government, the VK government, and I remember it too, because I was also sent to the platform at the time as the rapporteur of the Left. There I could say that it was the best tool one had at the time, with the knowledge one had then, and then we had to use it. But I also remember that we were told in the debate that I was told that if there is new knowledge, we reserve the right to change it again. Now there is new knowledge, and it has turned out that they among other things. does not have the environmental impact as was thought at the time. Then it's perfectly natural to say, "Get rid of them." Then I have indicated earlier in the debate here that, of course, it must be in balance with the environment. No one wants to degrade the environment. We need clean water in the taps, etc. I hear everyone saying that, so we must be able to achieve that with a good agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143233	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143235	Thank you, both for the reminder and for the Minister being so kind as to raise his hand. Thank you, too, for the commitment of the rapporteur of the Left that this should be in balance with the environment. Then I just want to know when it is that we are seeing the government's initiatives to compensate for the increased environmental impact we are going to see here. Now we are talking about peripheral areas here, but as the debate has shown, there is not much time for us to negotiate an agricultural and food package. Will it be in connection with it that we see the compensatory initiatives that make the environmental impact here go to zero?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143321	As I understand it, the Ministry of the Environment and Food is well in the process of trying to prepare all these things, and there is, of course, a legitimate expectation that some meetings will be convened within such a long time. I understand from the signals that there will be a broad invitation and that the Socialists will also have the opportunity to attend the meetings, and that must be where we have to address these things. And then I have noted that here in the case of peripheral areas, without being able to quote the one hundred per cent correct, the minimal effect it will have has to be dealt with in the context of the discussions and, I hope, future agreements. So we look forward to that, and we hope to be able to reach a good agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143402	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143413	Thank you for that, and also thank you from my side for the commitment I hear in the rapporteur's speech that, when it comes to making an agricultural and food package, the environmental bill, as I believe the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, should end up in zero, and the rapporteur said here that it should be balanced, so I interpret it as such. What interests me is that so far we have not seen the government or the Left or the VKO, the chronicle parties, present the initiatives to bring this environmental balance to zero. Can we expect that, when the government presents the agricultural and food package, it will be an overall package where the environmental bill from the start goes to zero?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143452	As you know, the starting point is the 16 points, and when you sit at the negotiating table you can get an overview of everything, and that is why hopefully we will have some good discussions and analyses and assessments and considerations when we are sitting around the table, hopefully at some point. So when I say it is an overall balance, it must be understood in the direction that I also hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say it. The Socialist rapporteur has used a little other words, but it is a little in the same direction, and I can best put it in that way that it should be in balance with the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143526	Thank you. It may sound a bit like the parties behind the 16-point plan have now put forward a plan in which there are mild gifts to agriculture and an increased burden on our environment, and then it must be up to the negotiating parties to take part in a possible conciliation to find the compensatory measures. Let us now think about the idea that the VKO stands alone, perhaps flanked by the Liberal Alliance, if we think the thought to the end. Will it then be seen here that the Left and the Government will present their own initiatives of their own making to pick up the environmental bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143608	I understand that the Socialist rapporteur is making some thoughts and reflections before moving into the room when, hopefully, one is invited to some negotiations. But I have not thought it that way, namely that we should now just go and hand out mild gifts, and then we should get others to pay bills and stuff like that in the rapporteur's own words. I see this as an overall package with which we have to reach the goal, and it must provide a better raw material basis so that we still have a good, strong food sector. It is absolutely necessary to make some improvements to the agricultural framework conditions. We can say that things are going the wrong way at the moment, and then we have clearly indicated that we must also have done things in balance with the environment, and I believe that this will be introduced after some good discussions and negotiations. So let's get started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143656	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. So, sir. Erling Bonnesen can stay on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143703	Yeah, we're gonna keep going. I am glad to hear that it is the government's intention to strike a balance. Of course, I had hoped that the instruments would first be found to ensure that the environment would be protected and then closed down to those whom we do not think should continue. I am thinking of the fact that when we talk about peripheral zones, it is often the case that we talk about nitrogen in particular, but the peripheral zones are also mentioned as an instrument which, as I understand it, is the most important instrument in relation to the directive on sustainable pesticide use or the Pesticides Framework Directive, I think that is also what it is called. Are we thinking in this plan that we should continue to have a sustainable pesticide use and also find alternative means of action for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143802	Here in Denmark we are all concerned about this by actions and decisions that have been taken for many years now that we need to reduce pesticide use and support the development of new means, etc., precisely in order to take good care of the environment and ensure it. And there are far better resources now than there were just a few years ago. So we are going the right way, and we must keep our eyes and ears open to new opportunities, so that we can still ensure both production, growth and employment and also take good care of our environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143835	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143837	What the rim zones here can do is to create just a minimal distance from the use of these potent toxins, which pesticides are, to nature. So yes, it is true that over many years we have had a development in the targeting of pesticides, but they are still toxins and they are still used in the open country. And the rim zones are such a minimal zone that ensures that distance from the use of toxins to nature. So are we going to look at other measures that can replace the peripheral zones?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143915	As the questioner himself notes, the rim zones are these stripes if you can say so in that way but fortunately our environmental legislation applies to pesticides for the whole map and for the whole of Denmark. That is why I believe that we should also, as it were, rise from a helicopter perspective when we are organising spray strategies. The questioner and the rapporteur know very well that this is what this is all about, so that we get together, not only on those stripes, but together we ensure proper development in this area. Of course, we must take advantage of the knowledge available there. Overall, it is just right and proper for us that we should now take the initiative to abolish peripheral areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119143956	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur can then leave the floor to allow room for the next rapporteur, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119144012	The legislative proposal we are debating today will abolish the mandatory peripheral zones that were introduced to protect our aquatic environment from the pollution of agriculture by nitrogen and trench poison. Randzones are a brilliant instrument for protecting the aquatic environment. It is a targeted instrument because it is exactly where it is most needed, namely along our watercourses and around our lakes. In this way, peripheral zones are effectively helping to detain pollution from the aquatic environment. When you remove the peripheral zones, as you will do with this law, it will mean an increase in nitrogen leaching for both our coastal waters and our nitrogen-sensitive nature. Both are deeply serious, and that is because we in Denmark have been working for nearly 30 years to achieve a better aquatic environment. The aquatic environment plan has replaced the aquatic environment plan and society has paid billions for efforts to restore the aquatic environment. And finally, nature has begun to show progress. Finally, we can see that many years of effort are beginning to work. The water on our shores becomes clearer, the eelgrass begins to return, not everywhere, but in some places, and the streams show signs of progress. It is slender, and it hasn't gone through at all, but 30 years of effort are beginning to bear fruit. We're still a long way from being in the finish line. We have a water framework directive that is under-implemented, and so we have not yet achieved the objective that we need to achieve, namely to have a good ecological condition in our aquatic environment. We know that more needs to be done. Therefore, this bill can only be described as something that is absolutely glaringly stupid: one of the most effective and economically sensible instruments is being removed and the risk of compromising 30 years of water-environment action. Indeed, there is a risk that if we increase pollution right now, algal blossoming will take off again, eelgrass will be followed away again and all the organisms, plants and animal species that are recovering will disappear. And then we can start over. What we should have learned over the last 30 years is that it takes an incredibly long time to restore the aquatic environment once it has been destroyed. That is why it is so distressing that the parties supporting this bill we are discussing today seem to have learned nothing. In its eagerness to satisfy a group of farmers who are phenomenal in shouting out loud, taxpayers are being allowed to pay the cost of destroyed nature and the aquatic environment. As is probably indicated in my rapporteur's speech, Enhedslisten cannot support this bill, and I welcome it from the SF and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119144340	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach for Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119144404	Thank you. In fact, I am the Environment Rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance and not the Agriculture and Food Rapporteur, but I have now been allowed to make our rapporteur's speech today on behalf of our Agriculture and Food Rapporteur. Although I know that she really would have liked to have delivered the speech herself, unfortunately she is occupied with another office of parliament. The history of Danish legislation on peripheral areas is a cruel one, and it is an example of how not to make policy. The background to peripheral legislation goes back to the former bourgeois government when the question of peripheral areas was supported by the Danish People's Party. We have also had confirmation of this earlier today. It was a government which was to host the major climate summit in Copenhagen and which, in this context, considered it appropriate to take initiatives to highlight the so-called green profile. Therefore, the bourgeois government prepared a great plan, called Green Growth. One of the elements of this was the proposal to introduce 10 m peripheral zone around all Danish watercourses. Shortly thereafter, and after the presentation of Green Growth, one could experience the beginning of one of the biggest rebellions among Danish farmers ever at a summit in South Jutland. Farmers after farmers could rise and tell that, as the scenario was now formulated, there should seem to be peripheral areas in areas where it made no sense at all, even around drainage channels and ditches that cut through the South Jutland marsh, with the result that most of the land simply had to be taken out of service. That part of it was so well ripped out of the Randzone Act. A historically high number of consultation responses were subsequently submitted with massive protests against the lack of professionalism and it was pointed out that the implementation would have major consequences for Danish agriculture. Then elections were held in 2011, government power changed, farmers prepared trials against the state through their organisations, and the new Social Democratic-led government prepared further tightening of this legislation. The brief basis for the implementation of the legislation was totally useless. Farmers practiced civil disobedience and the Minister refused to meet with farmers. At the same time, what happens sometimes in Danish politics is that you have a position until you take a new one: you have a position while you sit in government and you get another one when you get in opposition. There is nothing wrong with that, there is nothing wrong with getting smarter and changing your position. The Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party developed such an ongoing and gradual opposition to their own border zone law, and they even supported all farmers' protests. Then we had another choice, and it is with great pleasure that the new government actually stands by what it promised us before the elections, namely that the peripheral areas should be abolished. So reason and professionalism are now on their way back, and thank the Minister for that. Does this mean that we do not give a damn about the environment? No, it doesn't. And does this mean that we will not see peripheral areas in the future at all? No, it probably doesn't. In many places the peripheral zones do not make any sense at all; in other places, peripheral zones that are even wider than 10 metres may have to be established, and that is because it makes sense. In the Liberal Alliance, we see L 59, which is the first to be dealt with today, as the first step in the essential paradigm change in the regulation of Danish agriculture. the peripheral areas, the use of more targeted instruments, and it is based on reality and not on model work done at the desk; a move from legislation based on emotions to legislation based on professionalism; a move from control, monitoring and punishment to judicial cooperation based more on trust, guidance and advice. Many farmers today find themselves in an economically disastrous situation. We have mistreated agriculture and turned the industry into a beacon for everything that is about the environment. Abolition of the law on peripheral zones is a helping hand, and the next step, which is being prepared at the moment, is to allow fertilising to the needs of the plants, and it is urgent to change and relax the agricultural framework so that the industry can again make money, pay off its own debts and regain pride not necessarily at the expense of the environment, but in interaction with the environment and industry. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill and we expect a great deal from the overall agricultural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119144935	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is from Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119144941	Thank you very much. I understand that the Liberal Alliance is very concerned about helping agriculture, at least part of agriculture, so busy that it is felt that taxpayers should be allowed to stand and purse in order to clean up the pollution left behind by agriculture. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree that we must help agriculture, in particular we must help it to convert to a production which is not constantly on a collision course with the environment and nature, and that is not because we have to go out and invent something new. We're pretty much already out there. Organic farming can work well within the framework that now exists in this country, where our aquatic environment is more sensitive to, among other things. nitrogen than it is in so many other countries. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: we have an agriculture which has built up a debt in the region of 360 billion. kr. The majority of the agricultural industry is currently unable to earn any money. Does the rapporteur really believe that removing peripheral areas will solve the massive economic problems of agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145052	Thank you for the question. I think that is part of the solution to some of the problems of agriculture. As I also mentioned in my speech, this is perhaps the first step towards a comprehensive agricultural and food package on which we are about to enter into negotiations and which is based on the 16-point plan of the VKO, of which the Liberal Alliance is not a part. So I believe that this is the first step and I believe that it can help to solve some of the problems that agriculture has with its economically sustainable operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145129	However, does it not concern the rapporteur at all that this should be abolished before we have the other instruments in place, since we know that if we increase pollution, we are in danger of losing the balance that is emerging out there, so that we put 30 years of environmental action at risk? Would it not be more sensible to wait with this law until you had the package of new instruments that are constantly being talked about, but which we cannot at this moment know at all about what is really in it? Would it not be sensible to wait until we have the targeted instruments in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145204	In the Liberal Alliance, it is not so much the order that is interesting for us, but more the overall result and that the overall result is the most effective and cost-effective. So the temporal parallelity is not so crucial for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145222	The next question is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145225	I just want to hear what measures the rapporteur envisages replacing peripheral zones when one gets this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145235-2	There could be a lot of them. After all, there has been talk of mini-marital areas and various other things that can be replaced, and we look forward to a list being prepared in the Ministry to complement the catalogue of instruments already available, which might be replaced by peripheral zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145257	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145259	The Liberal Alliance tends to be preoccupied with cost-effectiveness, i.e. using the cheapest instruments. If the peripheral regions turn out to be the cheapest instrument, is the rapporteur prepared to change his approach to the peripheral regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145317	As I also said in the rapporteur's speech, it is not necessarily certain that after the abolition of compulsory peripheral zones we will not see peripheral areas in the future. There may well be specific areas where it would be most cost-effective to introduce peripheral zones, possibly even peripheral areas, which are wider than the 10 metres involved in the compulsory peripheral zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145346	The next brief remark is from Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145349	Thank you. Perhaps that is a little more politically negotiating, because we have heard two of the other bourgeois parties, the Danish People's Party and the Left, demanding, expecting, wanting, fighting for the environmental impact of the agricultural and food package, the 16 points that leave behind, to be picked up, they say. It has to be balanced. Does the Liberal Alliance have the same demands for the negotiations, that is, that the environmental bill, which the 16-point plan leaves behind, should be fully collected? Perhaps I could also ask in another way: will the Liberal Alliance oppose environmentally friendly measures if this happens at the expense of farmers' productivity?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145432	In the Liberal Alliance, we look forward to the negotiations, in that we are not part of the VKO's 16-point plan. We in the Liberal Alliance are actually interested in the fact that agriculture and the environment can go hand in hand and that this can be done in a balanced manner. I think proportionality is also part of this equation that we're going to have to play. There must be proportionality between the social costs and the economic costs imposed on the industry in relation to the environmental benefits we derive from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145515	I think I would ask the rapporteur to clarify that a little more. What does the Liberal Alliance mean by proportionality? I imagine, as I hear the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, that we will then see some debate on this game, where, from their side and perhaps from others too, action will be taken which goes in the opposite direction to what the agricultural package is proposing. After all, the agricultural package contains a great many relaxing measures for the benefit of the farmer, but, as I hear, there will also be measures which will benefit the environment and which may cost something for the farmer's productivity. In view of what the rapporteurs have said about fighting for the farmer and the fact that it is the farmer who is going to benefit from this, are we going to oppose measures which go in the opposite direction to a gain for the farmer and therefore for more environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145602	As I think I also answered a previous question, it is the overall package, the overall effect that is interesting for the Liberal Alliance, and not individual elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145617	Thank you. The next question is Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145621	Thank you. It is my impression that what concerns the Liberal Alliance a great deal is the mechanisms in the market, supply and demand. That is why I am thinking: would it not be natural for the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party to see the potential of agriculture on the market right now, which is both in Denmark and internationally in the field of ecology; that is where the demand lies right now; and that, as a society, that is to say socio-economically, two flies could actually be beaten with one stone by investing in the conversion to ecology, thus helping the industry in the direction of the market in which it is now, and, at the same time, turning down the consumption of pesticides and drastically reducing the consumption of fertilizers?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145716	In the Liberal Alliance, we have nothing against any form of farming. I am fortunate enough to have a brother-in-law who is an organic farmer. All the way through, ecology is certainly a very sensible thing, just as so many other forms of agriculture are. And as the questioner himself notes, we in the Liberal Alliance are very concerned about supply and demand. That is why we also want the possible conversion to organic farming to take place at a pace that corresponds to consumer demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145754	Thank you. There is another questioner, and that is Mrs Maja Panduro, the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145758	Thank you. I am also interested in the proportionality of what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is talking about. I also note that the rapporteur then says that what they are concerned with is the whole package, i.e. what the result on the bottom line is when the whole package is there. So let me ask you about the proportionality of the whole package. Is it the position of the Liberal Alliance that the increased environmental impact that is now coming, among other things? the cancellation of the peripheral areas, but also the other measures contained in the 16-point plan, must be compensated? So, according to the Liberal Alliance, should the increased environmental impact be fully compensated?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145847	A lot of new things have come into this, for example. new knowledge and possibly new model bases, and what we really care about in the Liberal Alliance is, as I said, that the most cost-effective method is being used, but also, of course, that in the end there will be a proposal and a model that can be approved in the European Union as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119145920	After all, it is good if we live up to the EU agreements that we have. I also think it is good if we do this in a cost-effective way. But is it the political position of the Liberal Alliance that the environmental impact, such as the removal of peripheral zones and increased fertilization, etc. gives in Danish watercourses, in our Danish water environment, and which is at all at these 16 points, must be compensated? You can actually say yes or no. Of course, we have to do this with the use of all new knowledge and make it cost-effective and all of this, but should it be compensated?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119150000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119150002	I do not think this area is quite so clear that you can answer the question clearly yes or no. In the Liberal Alliance, we recognise that this area is complex and that there is not necessarily the same view among all experts in this area. So what we are interested in is that the conservatism introduced into the model calculations, and the risk involved, is distributed equally between the environment and industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119150035	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119150048	I can put it simply. This isn't going to help agriculture many millimeters. Why? Because the crisis in agriculture, which we have already talked about a little, is so much bigger and has quite different causes than what the sacrifice of the peripheral areas can in any way touch. They are of the nature that the government is going to sacrifice, corresponding to 1 per cent. I would remind you that it is not the attractive regions that we are talking about, it is often low wet rim zones that currently act as a minimal filter between agricultural discharges of nutrients and pesticides on the one hand and nature with its sensitivity to these particular influences on the other. On the other hand, what we are all going to lose is not insignificant. It is nature's vein that is protected with the rim zones. It's the little ubiquitous nature that makes it all stick together. The living nature in and around lakes and streams, it is amphibians, insects and birds, it is the bike mosquito and all his friends. It is 25,000 hectares in total that are now being sacrificed. I do not think that we are bringing the desired economic growth back to conventional farming by sacrificing the peripheral zones and thus giving farmers this one percent of their land back to cultivation. I think that is very optimistic. Very different solutions need to be found to create a better balance between agriculture and nature, better value creation with lower environmental impact, and which reflects demand in Denmark and the rest of the world these years. Yes, I am thinking, of course, of a stronger commitment to organic production in Denmark. We also face climate change in Denmark, like the rest of the world. The rainfall levels are tearing everything with them and increasing the leaching from agriculture, which is why we actually need a robust aquatic environment. It has taken years, and environmental requirements have been built up, so our fjords and coastal waters are now reaching a better state that is no longer quite so vulnerable to nutrient pressures from agriculture. However, there is no new knowledge or research that shows that other low-tech initiatives protect Danish streams overall better and cheaper than the current peripheral zones. It may be that the mini-marital areas proposed by the Minister will have an effect, but we do not know. These are initiatives that are still on an experimental basis, and it is pure gambling, and therefore it is a far too drastic decision to remove the most effective and cheap instrument we have right now to protect our aquatic environment and nature, namely the peripheral zones. So the alternative votes against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119150330	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119150338	It is difficult not to stand here today and fret a little, because if we look back at the history of the peripheral areas, it was actually the case that under the previous government we had a new consensus between agriculture and the green organisations. After all, we did what was called the Nature and Agriculture Commission, where we decided that we should have a new situation where we should not have this old barren struggle, agriculture against nature, but that we should try to see if we could reconcile both interests. I remember talking to a chairman of Agriculture & Food who told me that what he dreamed of was that if you had now been Agriculture A/S, you would have long since found out how to take the vulnerable soils out of service and do something more on the robust soils. That is what we wanted to help them with with the Nature and Agriculture Commission, because we were able to get at once an agriculture that was optimal and was able to grow the land that could tolerate it, and we could get the vulnerable lands that do not yield very much returns and yields and that have a very high natural value out of operation. Some of these areas are the ones that are in the rim zones. It is clear that the rim zones must help to ensure that our nature can be well connected in Denmark. If we want a robust nature where there is room for animals and plants and where the animals can wander and move around the country and are not under such great pressure that we see that we have to make special plans for hares and partridges and butterflies and others, then we have to have a nature plan for Denmark where we can ensure coherent areas. That's where the green corridors, these rim zones, should play an important role. It was not only the nature effort to which the peripheral areas were to contribute. The aim was also to ensure that we remove nitrogen from our aquatic environment so that we avoid oxygen losses in our fjords, as we have seen, for example. in Mariager Fjord, and so we avoid this dirty water that I don't think a modern society like Denmark can be familiar with, and then it should help that pesticides don't end up in our nature. So the rim zones are actually a very good idea; they can three things at once. I would also like to admit that it would be best to use the peripheral areas intelligently and targeted where they really work. So what was in the Nature and Agriculture Commission was that at some point we had to switch to the targeted instruments where we could use peripheral zones and other things where they really have an effect. But what you are doing today is just completely removing the peripheral zones, and you are not putting anything instead yet. It seems a little bit panicky to simply remove environmental regulation, because you want to do something for an agriculture that is very under pressure, instead of waiting until we have the new system to replace it. The danger is that it has taken us over 30 years to get here, where we are beginning to see improvements in our aquatic environment. It has taken a lot of years to build up, and we are now beginning to see our fjords become clean again, we are beginning to see the bottom of our lakes, and Denmark again becomes a country where nature is not under severe pressure from the production that is around it. So now you're gonna put this at risk. If we look back at the history of the reign of the Left for exactly the rim zones, we should remember how they arose. They arose when the current Minister for the Environment and Food was last Minister. She then went out and abolished the set-aside. At that time we were also told that it would not affect nature or the environment at all; something much better would be forthcoming. We all thought it was a little exciting how to sort of save it, counteracting that 100,000 ha or was it 85,000 ha? How would you save it? We could understand that a hair was simply not to be curved on the head of the environment. What you brought was what was called Green Growth. There you came with the rim zones, and you came with these aftercrops, which you saw from the left side have run away in a 200-mile backwards hedge race. I would say that, regardless of whether you are a natural person and that your confidence in something coming instead of what you are abolishing today lies in a very small place, or whether you are a farmer and have seen what happens when you have to correct past mistakes, I would be very concerned about what comes from here, when you just repeal the rules and do not put anything in place. How can we assure agriculture that it is not Green Growth 7.0.. that is coming soon, because the minister has to pay the whole bill with minive areas, which may prove to be much more expensive? How can you remove what's there without having anything to put in place? It is simply incomprehensible to me, and that is why, of course, the Radicals cannot support the fact that at this stage this law is being repealed when you have nothing to put in place and cannot use the time wisely to make a transition which is responsible for both agriculture and nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119150828	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119150837	Thank you. Well, I can tell Mr. Knox... Simon Kollerup, that it's the other twin who's having a birthday today. After all, we have adopted the Finance Act today, and more than one billion have now been allocated to it. kr. to the environment. Over 1 billion has been committed. kr. to handle the effort in relation to the nitrogen load in our water environment. So to the rapporteurs who have today called for what is going to be replaced, I can now say that we have an economic framework in place for a sufficient amount of effort for alternative measures, which must, of course, comply with what Mrs Ida Auken mentioned here in the end, so that we will now move on to more targeted regulation. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding says that the rim zones are both brilliant and targeted. But they're neither. We may have thought that peripheral areas were a really effective means of action, but they have now come to know that it varies a great deal, because it depends entirely on the areas in which the peripheral areas are located and, as has been done today, they have not been targeted either, because they are not only located where it is the most effective means of action, and that is exactly what we are now changing with that legislative proposal. Now we make the peripheral zones something that is brilliant and targeted to use in the right places. It is the case that, in isolation, the repeal of the Random Zone Act will result in a greater intake of nitrogen and phosphorus into the aquatic environment. On the basis of current knowledge, however, it is expected that the effect at national level will be matched by the effects of, among other things, measures already adopted and structural developments in agriculture. That's what we call the baseline effect with a technical term. Baseline includes the effects of wetland interventions under the applicable rural programme, the technical adjustment of the nitrogen norm system, the establishment of energy crops, environmental authorisations for livestock farming, the development of grasses instead of grazing and the development of yields. Also included are the nitrogen side effects of waste water efforts in the water plans. In the food and agriculture package, which many people have also referred to today, the government will, of course, propose an overall approach to nitrogen regulation, in which the effects of the future relaxation of regulation will be complemented by any necessary environmental mitigation measures within each water body. I recognise that there may well be positive effects of the peripheral zones, and there may also be natural effects in the form of a spread corridor for flora and fauna in the open country, which is why peripheral areas are also maintained as a voluntary instrument that can be used where appropriate, just as the farmer can choose to use peripheral zones to meet the MFO requirements, i.e. requirements related to environmentally sensitive areas, or it can be used as an alternative to catch crops. However, this bill is precisely a first step towards fulfilling what Mrs Ida Auken also referred to, which first came with the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which just proposed that we should now move away from the general instruments to more targeted regulation, and which, in fact, was established by a broad political majority under the previous government in the Growth Agreement, which was concluded in 2014. And that is what we are working on now on the basis of the 16-point plan. Here is a very specific example of the fact that we are moving from abolishing the general instrument to making it more targeted by the fact that it is no longer a mandatory requirement, but one of the voluntary instruments among so many other instruments that can be used. As I said, over a billion has now been set aside. kr. This is precisely the nitrogen-regulating effort that I am looking forward to negotiating with the political parties in the future. What the nitrogen challenge is, yes, we will be much wiser when we soon get some results from the work of the so-called nitrogen committee, which was set up by the previous government almost a year ago, and which we expect very soon to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151330	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151336	I just want to ask the Minister if she supports the polluter pays principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151343	It depends entirely on what Mrs Ida Auken means by the question and what lies in it. I think it is very important that we now change the conditions for agriculture, and I am prepared to ensure that, in the context of the demands we make on environmental measures, we also ensure that there is compensation. That is what is quite different in this government's line compared with the previous government, namely that we say that we reach, for example. If we put some restrictions on what must be done on a growing area, we will compensate for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151416	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151418	I take that as a no, because the Minister obviously does not think you should pay for your own pollution. I can also read that almost a billion has now been set aside. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Is that wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151434	Over a billion dollars has been set. kr. to finance the actions I would like to take in order to ensure good development in our aquatic environment. I recognize that among other things. Random zones are important in relation to nitrogen discharges. As I mentioned, I believe that it has been dealt with at baseline, i.e. with the hard work, but, overall, with the initiatives we are taking, there will be an effort that needs to be handled, and this billion will have to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151508	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151513	Thank you. It is incomprehensible to me that we are standing here in 2015 and are removing a really important instrument that should ensure that we reach the goal, even so close that we are about to be there. It is also incomprehensible to me how an entire bourgeois wing can choose to let taxpayers pay for the pollution of a business. It's not pennies we're talking about here. Now the Minister refers to the intention to make targeted regulation and to allocate more than 1 billion to it. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Now I have not yet had the opportunity to study the financial law agreement, but as I immediately saw it, it was divided into a few slightly smaller items • 75 million. kr. Next year, rising to 150 million. kr. In the years to come, around this targeted regulation and the instruments that can be used for the targeted regulation are very different, and they cost very different. So once specific amounts have been set aside, we must also begin to identify what kind of instruments they are. When will these targeted instruments be in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151628	First of all, I have to say that I do not know what it is, Mrs Reumert Gjerding thinks we are going to achieve when it comes to the peripheral zones. I'm very interested to hear that. As I have just said to Mrs Reumert Gjerding, the impact of the current peripheral zones varies considerably. I believe, in fact, that by becoming a voluntary tool we can use where it is optimal, we will have a more targeted approach and a much better use of the peripheral areas that may be established. It is interesting to see how the debate has developed here during the time that has passed with the examination of this bill. When Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding spoke as rapporteur, there was a great deal of criticism of it, that is to say that I lost the effort, and it was also too bad that it was not clearly explained what should now be replaced. However, when I can then tell you that now the financial resources have actually been found through the Financial Act, so we have the financial framework in place to make a huge effort in relation to the nitrogen load, yes, it is also wrong that we are actually dealing with it. It's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151737	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151741	I would be very happy to explain that to the Minister. What we are about to put at risk is, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, 30 years of action on the aquatic environment. What is the problem right now is that you cancel the instruments before the others are in place. This means that there is a risk of increasing pollution at a time when nature and the prosperity of our nature and of our aquatic environment are incredibly fragile. That is the problem, I would say to the Minister. That's why I'm asking. I have not criticized what the government has dropped off because I have not yet been able to study it, but I ask: when are the targeted instruments in place so that the period from abolishing the instruments until something new can be put in place can be as short as possible? That's kind of what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151829	I just can't figure out how Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding can make it happen that I put 30 years of effort at risk with the abolition of peripheral zones as a mandatory, general instrument. As I pointed out just now, the expectation is that the effect of removing these peripheral areas as a mandatory general measure at national level will be matched by the effects of the measures already adopted and by the developments that are taking place in general in relation to the baseline projection that is taking place. How it can be that I'm losing 30 years of development, I just can't comprehend. When we have a clarification of what measures will be taken, and how compensation will be and under what conditions, depends on the political negotiations with the political parties that I am about to embark on when we know the reaction from the nitrogen committee, which, as I said, will be fairly soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151930	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Maja Panduro, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119151935	I will just have to follow up a little lately, because it seems that the Minister is very reluctant to answer when the more targeted measures can be ready. That is not a completely unreasonable question to ask. I think that most of us think it is very sensible to make more targeted regulation. That is also why we in the government put that work into action. However, it is very relevant when we are starting to abolish some of the instruments that we have had, that we then have an idea of when to replace something else. Is there going to be a gap in regulation, and if so, is that something that the Minister thinks we should subsequently go in to pick up, bearing in mind what the Minister said in his speech? I took note of this because it is a little interesting how it is formulated: the effects of the agricultural and food package will be complemented by environmental regulation effects. Will there then be a need here to supplement environmental regulation in places where there is a gap, a slack that gives less environmental protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152057	We have a directive obligation not to degrade the situation, and I intend to live up to that obligation. With regard to the palette of instruments and how and how they can be arranged, we need to know first what the challenge we are facing is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152115	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152117	Does the Minister consider that it is not at all a problem to make the relaxation until, in the Minister's own words, he knows the challenge he is facing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152131	In other words, whether the isolated challenge of the amendments to this legislation that we are debating today is precisely that it is dealt with in the measures already taken in this area. I can see that Mrs Maja Panduro is shaking her head, but I have to answer what is being asked, or else you have to come back and clarify it. The challenge of dealing with nitrogen leaching in the years to come will be presented to us by the so-called nitrogen committee very soon. I cannot say anything more precisely about what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152214	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152216	Thank you. I would actually like to add a few words to Mrs Ida Auken's question about the fact that the polluter also pays. For now the Minister could tell us about the other twin, that is to say the environment, which today was given a billion kroner to improve it. I am thinking just of the fact that when you make an agricultural package that has a clearly positive revenue effect for agriculture that is why you make it • why does the Minister not think it is reasonable, and there I want such a little political answer that you ask the farmer also to find the compensatory tools environmentally? Why do you have to compensate for that? Why should the billions of dollars be spent on it, given that the farmer is getting a positive revenue out of the agricultural package itself? And wouldn't the Minister agree that if you failed to spend the billion kroner allocated on these compensatory effects, you would have more money for further environmental measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152314	I think it is perfectly reasonable for society to have an interest in protecting the environment and promoting nature, and I think it is good that we allocate financial resources to it. We have done so over time on a very large scale, and I think we should continue to do so. Then I am glad that we can discuss with each other how we can organise the conditions for food production in Denmark in a different way than we have done so far, because we really need to create some growth in agriculture and thus increase the raw material base for food production companies as such and ensure employment in dairies, slaughterhouses and in all the other food companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152358	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152402	But I am also looking forward to discussing this and I think it will be exciting to find a model where we can promote growth and employment in this profession and in those parts of the country where this profession is taking place. What's just interesting is this compensation thing. Can the Minister not at all imagine that the farmer himself is uncompensated for some of the environmental tasks that we, as a society and as a farmer, also have an interest in lifting and which are our directive's obligation, that is to say that we should not reduce the state of affairs and so on.? Will the Minister only make measures that are linked to compensation and thus crown in the tail, in relation to the regulation measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152447	I think that we on the Left have been very clear about the fact that we want to organise things, so that it is mainly in the interests of voluntary action and that it is in the interests of compensation. I think it was sir. Carsten Bach, who referred to the unsightly course that has taken place, about peripheral legislation over the years, and the discussion back and forth about whether one could compensate or not. That is not something we should be proud of in the Folketing, and there is a very clear political line on the part of the Left that we want to provide compensation. I also think it is right that we should use a great deal of financial resources in every way possible to protect nature and to make efforts for a better environment, and it is also obvious that we are doing so in relation to nitrogen leaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152539	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152541	Thank you for the floor. The Minister himself mentions the need for growth in agriculture, and I think that is quite right. The obvious thing to do in this area right now is of course ecology, which shows much higher growth rates, i.e. in demand, both in Denmark and abroad. But I'd like to get back to this with what we're putting instead of the peripheral zones. The Minister now mentions that 1 billion has been set aside. kr. of, and it's hard to see the details of it once we've just got the Finance Act. However, I have just received an email from some of our advisors in the Alternative, which mentions some figures which amount to up to 0.5 billion. kr. on agricultural nitrogen emissions. But following on from what Mrs Reumert Gjerding said, I would just like to say that we cannot know what is involved. Well, money in itself isn't enough. If you choose some very expensive instruments, then EUR 0.5 billion. kr. or 1 billion kr. Maybe not enough. So does the Minister not see the need for us to be reassured to see what measures are being put in place for the peripheral zones before they are shut down?
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152656	I very much agree with Mr. Christian Poll in that it is interesting to see how organic production develops. And there I am very pleased that we have managed to find additional financial resources for the interest in restructuring that has been this year. It is of course interesting that after a number of years, when there has been no real development, a great many people this year have sought to convert to organic farming, and it is to be hoped that the demand of consumers will make it more attractive for farmers to convert to organic production. When Mr. Christian Poll's employees have difficulty finding all the figures, it may be because the effort in relation to the nitrogen area is included in the reserve. So it's partly set, I think it's 75 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I don't think that's a problem. As I mentioned to Mrs Panduro, the impact has been dealt with for the time being in relation to the peripheral areas, and it is in the broad picture of the overall approach that we need to look at what the alternatives are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152811	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151119152829	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 20 November 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
