ParlaMint-DK_20151030100023	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business and Growth (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 37 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities, the Law on Investment Funds, etc., the Law on Securities Trading, etc.) and various other laws. Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 21 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the implementation of budgeted payments of development aid for 2015). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 22 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the remuneration of municipal and regional council members on leave) and motion for a resolution No. Β 23 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the rules on early retirement for Presidents of the Regional Council). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Legal Affairs has delivered: report and recommendation on the election of the Ombudsman of Parliament. B 24). The report and the recommendation will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030100125	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democratic Party, as the first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030100143	Thank you. It may not have happened to any Dane that SKAT, not least in relation to the task of recovering tax and other payments to municipalities and states, is hit by some very major difficulties. In other areas too, there are problems. Take e.g. the scandal of fraud and unjustified reimbursement of dividend tax for over 6 billion. kr. and a property assessment system which has been put out of effect and where the right of appeal has been stopped. And we fear that more points will come up. For the Social Democratic Party it is very problematic that as basic an authority as the SKAT is so bad running on several points. We believe it is important to have a fair, efficient and well-functioning tax administration and that the Danes can have confidence in SKAT. Citizens and companies have to pay the tax they have to pay, no more and no less, and fortunately most Danes do. They should then also be able to count on the neighbour or neighbouring company to pay theirs to the common fund as well. This is happening to some extent already because a high tax standard has been built up in Denmark and there is a general willingness to pay for our common welfare in this country. But it is crucial that there is confidence that when someone's displeasure by paying tax chamber into actually cheating or tax evasion, SKAT makes sure to intervene and that it can be expected to happen. In the Left, I think, things have been made easier many times. Anders Fogh Rasmussen went so far as to call tax holes for breathing holes, and SKAT was shaved down with a background in an IT system that doesn't work. A highly flawed property assessment system was left to the SR government, and we were even criticised when we had to try to clean up that morass. Only yesterday, in this Chamber, we debated a bill from the Left that would weaken the fight against undeclared work and social dumping, in fact completely with the knowledge of the tax minister and the bourgeois majority. Right now, with the bill here, it's about the recovery of tax debts. After many years of attempts to finalise Kristian Jensens's large-scale IT project on fully automated recovery, the current tax minister had to pull the plug on the system in September, which is publicly known, well described and well documented in various reports from the tax minister. Large sums of money have been spent on developing that system, but after many delays and expense and a launch that resulted in illegal collections by citizens, the system had to be stopped and recovery switched to manually. Needless to say, it requires more staff in the SKAT and that some temporary systems are developed until a more permanent system support can be put into the lake. In this process, the Socialists have been prepared to commit more staff to the SKAT and have supported the proposal made by the tax minister in this regard. If it turns out that there is a need for additional personnel, that is, that it is not enough what has been set aside now, then our statement today is that we are also ready to give priority to this and back up the tax minister. It is analyses initiated by the former Socialist Minister for Taxation, whose conclusions made it clear that the EFI, as the system is called, had to be stopped. And we clearly believe that it is the right decision that has been made. As I said, Kristian Jensen, the tax minister at the time, was the chief architect of the EFI. Although I still regret the change of government in June, there is some kind of poetic justice in that it is also a Leftman who now has to clean up after the then tax minister Kristian Jensen. The bill itself here is, as it appears, an end to the whole problem of EFI and part of the understanding of the framework of SKAT and the recovery of SKAT that has been created between a number of parties here in the Folketing, which is very positive. This is simply necessary and the proposal here will mean that the limitation period of arrears will be suspended, which means that the limitation period will be suspended and the clock will start on a fresh limitation period in November 2018. If you did not do so, an absurdly large number of man-hours would have to be spent simply keeping the demands by just rather than actually carrying out recovery. Alternatively, a very large loss for the state and the municipalities would have to be accepted on these requirements. And thus all those who have paid what they should, had to accept a significant drain from the common box due to a failed IT system. Neither is desirable in our view. It is unusual to do as is proposed here, it is clear, but we must also say that as a society and as legislators we have come into a very unusual situation with the problems of the failed IT system for recovery. Social democracy can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030100614	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær. And it is very good to sit up at the rapporteur's table, we are actually saving some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030100630	The background to this bill, to put it mildly, is unfortunate. This is due to the fact that there has been a root in the recovery of SKAT for many years, and it has now come into the situation that one has had to pull the plug on the IT system which was supposed to form the backbone of the entire recovery. It is the system that is called the EFI, a common recovery system. This makes it a really bad basis for us today as legislators, because it is a very special situation that we now have to find out how we deal with recovery in the future until we find a new way of doing it. And it has to be said that this proposal is part of the solution, not the whole solution, but part of the solution. In short, it is about extending the limitation period by three years. The aim is that there should be no further unintended obsolescence and therefore a potential further loss of billions for the Treasury. I've been told I don't know if that's the correct number... that there's at least about. 900 employees working today in the field of recovery, half of whom spend their time on obsolescence, i.e. they do not spend their time recovering debts. Of course, it is not sustainable if there are so many resources that go to something that is not essential. This bill will then help to allocate the resources to be used to actually replace the IT system that the plug is now drawn on, so that we can continue to recover the arrears that need to be used in the municipalities for welfare and other things. In the past, it has been seen that there has actually been a loss from 2012 to 2014 of 2 billion. kr., and if we don't do anything by the Danish Parliament and this bill is, as I said, part of the solution... then the billions of dollars will just increase quite significantly. Now I think it is important in this debate to say that there are, of course, more initiatives on the way, one of the most important of which is that there should be more simple rules in the area of recovery, because some of what caused the old system to be dropped was that it was found that there were far more different claims than were actually expected. And if a more simplistic system can be put in place in the field of recovery, I think there is also a greater basis for creating some supporting IT systems that can remedy this problem quite strongly. As Jesper Petersen of the Social Democrats said, together with a wide range of parties in the Folketing, we have also chosen to set aside more resources for this. And there I would say that if the tax minister comes and says that even more resources or other initiatives are needed to solve this problem, we in the Danish People's Party, like the Social Democratic Party, are open to finding solutions. Because it is quite true that it is untenable for Danish society if you have a tax organisation that people do not trust and where you can look the money running out, whether it is due to fraud or it is due to a lack of recovery. This means that people do not pay their taxes with pleasure, but at least they pay their taxes, and it also means that some people may start doing more black work, because what good is it if the money disappears out of the box anyway? I would like to say that the alternative to this proposal is, as I believe, Mr President. Jesper Petersen said that then everyone else will just pay off the debt that is not being recovered, because then we will have to pay it more. For we need the money for the welfare of municipalities and regions and for the tasks of the state. That is why, although this is a very special situation and not a particularly positive legislative proposal, we think that, in the particular situation, we also need to take decisions which will enable us to remedy the difficult situation we have encountered. And that's why we in the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101027	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101037	Thank you. Unfortunately, the EFI has become a name that many know, and it is not for the good. The recovery system has been found to have been initiated too early and to be faulty. It has cost millions in lost debts because they have become obsolete during a period when the system had been put out of effect. Work on correcting the problems in the EFI is going on, and now, as it were, there is a need to put an end to the clock and give peace of mind, and this is what we are doing with this proposal, where the limitation period is put out of effect for three years. This is not an optimal situation, I think everyone can agree on that. But right now it is necessary, both in the interests of working life, but also in the interests of legal certainty for taxpayers, who have to compensate for the losses, as the other speakers have said, when the debtors escape because their debts are barred. Legal certainty in the field of taxation has been severely damaged over recent years, and there must be no arbitrariness in relation to whether or not to pay debts to the public. This arbitrariness can be overcome by temporarily suspending the limitation period. By the way, the Left has always been very concerned about these limitation periods, which meant that in 2009, the last time we had government power, we reduced the limitation period from five to three years. The problems with EFI and with SKAT have occurred and have probably also accelerated over a number of years under changing governments. The Socialist rapporteur was very busy pointing the finger at the Left. The rapporteur said that the EFI was launched under a Left Government. It is true that, under a Left Government, it was decided to digitise recovery to a greater extent, and I think that is still a good idea. The problem was that the system did not work and that it was put into operation at the wrong time, but it was not here that I could point the finger at the Social Democrats and say that it was under a social democratic government, but I really do not think it is particularly nice that we are standing here in the Chamber pointing our finger at each other. We are all responsible for this because it is changing parties that have supported various things in this Chamber, and we have probably all been quite ignorant of how bad things have happened in the SKAT. That is why I think it is very good that all parties show this responsibility and agree to an agreement to get SKAT on the right track, because SKAT is crucial to our having a well-functioning welfare society. We need to have a fair tax collection in the country, and therefore SKAT must work. So I would like to sign that so many parties have chosen to back this agreement to get SKAT on course. I think this is a very good thing, and I am pleased that this responsibility has been shown, and I hope that this will be achieved as soon as possible. Against this background, I must say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101330	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101332	I just thought it was reasonable in my rapporteur's speech to try to put it in a little historical context. After all, when we took over the government power in 2011, the more manual recovery was being put down and moved to a fully automatic recovery system. It was a very ambitious project. If we had just said from the first day that we don't believe that, then now we're gonna dump it with all the millions spent on it, then I'm convinced that the Left had been there like a pussy and had said, "What are you doing?" We've invested so much money in this and now you're just gonna dump it because you don't believe it. There had to be a lot of work to do. We tried to fix it and then made reports to find out how it went. This proved to be illegal in some cases, and it could not carry out the task at all. And that is why the tax minister had to make the right decision. But wouldn't Mrs Louise Schack Elholm just confirm that it was under the Left Government that this whole project was invented to make it fully automatic, and that it was obviously a task to try to put it into practice when the government had to be released in 2011?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101435	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101437	It is true that the Left Government helped to decide that the process should be digitised more. It's part of all the digitalisation that's in society. But the system just hasn't worked well enough. It is true that it is a pity that it was not stopped much earlier. That's what I would have wanted. It has continued to believe that it could be improved, and that is why it has been postponed. But here we are discussing who is to blame for what, and I think we have to acknowledge that we are all in a position of co-responsibility. We all have a share of responsibility, and that is why I think it is positive that we are helping to take that responsibility on us and resolve it together. I think we should be pleased about this rather than standing here pointing our finger at it, because I do not think that is very much to be welcomed. Because we can stand and discuss back and forth, I don't know how much, and say that you did it, and you did it now you can't say you in here in the Parliament hall, I'm sorry, but that's not what's good for Denmark. I don't believe that. What is beneficial is that we take note of what has happened. It has not been good enough, and we all acknowledge that. That is why we are also in common on the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101536	I think you have to say, in the context it was used. Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101540	I also saw it as a saying rather than as an indictment, so that is fair enough, and I fully agree with Mrs Schack Elholm that what we are doing now we are in complete agreement. It is positive that we can stand together to try to make such a recovery of the SKAT. We just had to listen very much to the Left who criticized what was going on when we actually tried to clean up some things that the Left had left for us. That is why I think it was appropriate to give a historical ride over where these problems actually come from and started. However, as far as the future is concerned, I see it in the same way as Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Sometimes you just don't let go that easily, and you have to put up with that when you're on Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101620	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101621	I have no further comments to make. I look forward to your cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101627	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030101635	Today's debate is, after all, the outcome of one of the biggest economic and administrative scandals and major political failures we have seen in Denmark in recent times. Changing governments and changing tax ministers have saved our tax administration torn apart and have initiated a digitalisation and fired employees before the system worked. It has happened with open eyes, and despite the flashing of all warning lights. Alongside this, general tax cuts have been carried out in the form of annual cuts. This together has meant that our tax administration has been destroyed and we are paying a huge price for that now. It is billions of dollars that society has lost because of the scandal. It is so many billions that we could probably have avoided each and every one of the cuts that the new government has on the programme with its financial law, even though it had probably implemented them anyway. The parties responsible for this are the ones who have been on guard as government parties and tax ministers. They have then reached a peace of mind where they have agreed not to place any political responsibility. And the proposal today is an end to that peace, because it was also part of the agreement that it had to be resolved in this way. At the same time, you went out and oversold an agreement that you would now correct SKAT and hire a lot of new employees. The reality is, however, that the number of employees in SKAT next year will decrease in relation to the task solution. Now we are standing here and the government has put forward this proposal to postpone the obsolescence. This presents us with a dilemma. On the one hand, it may be asked why it is the citizens who have to pay with increased uncertainty for several years for the mistakes made by changing political majority in this House. On the other hand, we are in a situation where we risk further losses to society, with the consequences that it has, for the possibility of financing our welfare. This is particularly regrettable, I think, for us, for those parties which have always warned that the cut in the SKAT would have exactly these consequences. The question that arises is: are there any other solutions to this dilemma than either a loss or a deterioration in citizens' security and legal certainty? In my view it is interesting that this is the way it is formulated in the comments to the draft law: in the absence of the draft law, therefore, if it is to be avoided that there is accidental limitation of claims, it will require the provision of staff. Is this to be understood, and we must have clarified this in this debate and in the committee procedure, that if you add more staff, you can actually secure the citizens against this procedure... you can say against this extension? One of the things I want to look into today and in committee is: is there another option? Is it the case that by providing the necessary resources to SKAT, we would be able to ensure that society did not suffer this loss without the citizens having to pay for the mistakes made by the majority in this House? We are not yet clear as to how we feel about the proposal at the end, but whatever we think it is important that, if we implement this bill, there will be a number of exceptions for those groups that will never be able to pay their debts anyway. It could, for example, be done. be pensioners, early retirement pensioners and other groups who have no prospect of obtaining an increase in income and thus the possibility of paying any debt to the State. In this case, we believe that we should exempt them from this postponement of the limitation period. However, we are looking forward to a discussion today and we look forward to resolving a number of issues in the further examination of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102130	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102135	The reason why I am asking for a brief comment is that I noticed that Mr. Pelle Dragsted now again presented some incorrect information, namely that there should be fewer in the SKAT compared to last year. I think I know how this hopefully misunderstanding has arisen, because I think it is because Mr. Pelle Dragsted looks in the Finance Act. - Sir... Pelle Dragsted confirms that it is against the background of the Finance Act that Mr. Pelle Dragsted arrives at the idea that there should be fewer employees in SKAT because that is not right? But Mr. Pelle Dragsted confirm that it is on the basis of the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102210	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102211	This is due to a technical review of the Finance Act and subsequent amendments, namely the proposal made by the government. This was done in the Committee on Taxation together with my colleague, Mr. Rune Lund, who is unfortunately on sick leave, where it is confirmed that it is a matter of fulfilling a cliff that had otherwise been there, that is to say, filling out a hole. It doesn't add any more employees. And the small number of extra employees that will then come will come because some new tasks will be imposed. But whatever it is, the thing is, if we look at it, like, for example. The Customs and Tax Union and others have been out to say, so it was employees on a completely different scale that had to be added to the SKAT. We are talking about a thousand employees if we were to rectify the complete destruction of the SKAT that has been carried out over the last few decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102307	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102309	See, it got a little more interesting. Because now Mr. Pelle Dragsted, that there are more employees. Sir. Pelle Dragsted is just not happy with how many more. Because it is true that in the draft budget one cannot see the extra funding coming to SKAT. It is an additional appropriation in which it appears. There are several employees, and I'm glad to hear that Mr. Pelle Dragsted now acknowledges.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102333	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102333-2	I fully agree that there has been an additional allocation since the Finance Act, so there are no misunderstandings here. In the technical examination of the Finance Act and the draft supplementary allocation by the Tax Committee, the government acknowledged that it is not really a question of adding new employees to the tasks previously solved. It is a matter of fulfilling some cliffs and of all things, there are a huge number, thousands of people who no longer have jobs in the SKAT. We will not get near the recovery that is needed, and that is why, unfortunately, these problems will continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102418	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102428	SKAT is an organization in crisis. The draft law before us today is only one of several examples of this. Instead of recovering and defending citizens' money for a period before spending on hospitals and roads, tax authorities consume money by making serious mistakes. SKAT has given at least 6.3 billion. kr. to foreign fraudsters, and the recovery system EFI has meant that there have been considerable losses, both because the IT system, which was to be completed about 8 years ago, has now been scrapped and because the entire recovery process now needs to be carried out manually, which means an additional cost, which is again covered by working Danes. In addition, a two-digit billion amount that should have been recovered from citizens who have public debt has not been recovered because the system is not working. It is difficult to find words about how serious a situation it is and regrettably hardly enough. The Left Government is now in an unpleasant situation where the deadline for the recovery of debts must be postponed because the money has not been recovered in good time. It is problematic when the state can change the law in this way because of errors that have just occurred in the state. We agree with the Lawyers' Council when they say that a community governed by law, among other things. is characterised by predictability in the legislation. So here we are. The mistakes have been made and if we do not provide for the possibility of recovering arrears from the citizens who owe, then others will pay the very large sums. That is why we support the bill. The Liberal Alliance has made an agreement with the government to restore the SKAT, and we have gone into that work with great perseverance. SKAT has big and deep problems to which we need to find many different answers. Some of them we have found, but many of them we have to work on. When it was clear to us after the elections how serious the situation was, we in the Liberal Alliance said that it was very important that there was a consequence for some of the people who have made the very extensive mistakes. The Minister listened to this, and that is why some of the leaders in question have been repatriated. We have also asked for a tax Ombudsman, as we believe it is important that there is an external authority that can keep the SKAT in check and stand on the side of the citizens. The Minister has also listened to this. We have a large number of proposals to restore citizens' confidence in SKAT and ensure legal certainty for citizens. It is, of course, the case that we cannot stand here and disclaim responsibility for the problems that are in the SKAT. Politicians have the highest responsibility, and we must demand transparency, orderlyness and consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102731	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102743	We are here today, and we have heard the previous rapporteurs explain that we have huge problems in the SKAT and that we have had huge problems with the system called the EFI, which is a shortening of the common tax recovery system. We have had to shut that down because it works inappropriately and illegally. The draft law we are discussing here today proposes to postpone the limitation of claims during the recovery of SKAT by three years. This must be done for cases which date from 19 September 2015 or later. In other words, the recovery cases which will become obsolete in the next three years will have three more years before they become obsolete. It has been recognised that the EFI was an inappropriate tool. This was an attempt to improve efficiency, which led to serious problems and, among other things, to a lack of transparency. It is also important that the European Parliament should be given the opportunity to express its opinion on the Commission's proposal for a directive. This is, of course, a disastrous development, but to say that it will also cause more mistakes in the coming phase, when the system needs to be replaced and where new solutions need to be found jointly, we do not think that is appropriate. SKAT is facing a period of very limited system support to recover this debt. We know that things are going to take time, and it is important for us that the things being put in place can also last in the future. So, in order to prevent claims from being barred solely because of the time and resource pressure of SKAT, and that we are therefore missing money in the treasury, we think in the alternative that it makes sense to postpone the limitation period by 3 years and is therefore positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030102952	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard. He's not here. Then it must be Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103011	SKAT is in trouble, and we have been discussing this for a long time. It is also sometimes a good idea to dig a spade stick deeper to see why. The political winds have blown to the right and left and developed into something near hurricane force that has overturned the SKAT. This is one of the organisations where the majority of people have been fired, and then you expect to be able to carry out all the tasks that changing governments and political parties have wanted the SKAT to solve. SKAT was centralized under the Prime Minister when he was Minister of the Interior, and in this way the state has a responsibility for what it looks like. In the municipalities where recovery was previously possible, there are now millions of losses due to lack of recovery. Just this month it's 50 million. kr., which is missing in the municipalities. There has been too much faith in star war projects such as the EFI. It's been thought that IT systems could handle everything. However, as we have also seen, there are a lot of things that simply need people to do, which is why we see, for example, that Aarhus Municipality goes out and makes personal contact with some of those who owe, and makes agreements that the debtors get paid back in a way that can be handled. A system can't handle such things. I very much hope that the next time there is an IT system, because there will be more of them, we know that, and they cost the cashier, then you value and ambition at the same level, so that we do not have to lose billions again because of failed IT systems, whereby people's legal certainty gets in trouble and then we have to change the legislation over and over again. Therefore, I also appeal to the tax minister to ensure some calm, some decent working conditions for SKAT's employees and really try to ensure the broad cooperation in the Folketing, so that we can get SKAT back on track. Because we all have a share of responsibility. I have proposed, on behalf of the SF, that municipalities and publicly owned companies should either be allowed to recover the debt that people out there have to them, or because there are many who do not have the capacity for it to be compensated by the state, by us, because they cannot legally recover the debt that is there. That's something I want to pursue, too. This has no impact on our support today. We support the fact that there will be a postponement of the date on which the limitation period enters into force. Because it does not come into force until 19 November, we think that is fair too. It is a debt that is real, and one must also hope that more people have the resources to follow the example of the City of Aarhus and make some regular, proper agreements with these people and ensure that they can get paid back. But the debt is real. That is something they owe to the community, and that is why we have no problem in supporting it. For a rare time, I agree with the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance. Somebody else is gonna pay if this debt isn't paid. So SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103357	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103408	The basis for the proposal here is root, sloppy, really bad work in the SKAT. It is very, very regrettable, because it is the taxpayers, it is all of us who get stuck because we have not managed that process in the SKAT. This is something that the government, the Minister, the system must take care of, and of course we expect that to happen in a proper way, so that it does not happen again. In this context, I think it is important to look at how to introduce alternative ways of getting that money in. I think you should look constructively not just to hire a lot of employees in SKAT, but look at how, for example, private companies can go in and collect some of the claims, give the municipalities some greater powers in this area, so that the goal that when people owe the public money, they obviously have to be in the box, is reached. This leads us to the very substance of the proposal. In other words, the limitation period is postponed by three years, as it were. That is really challenging in principle, we think. On the one hand, it must always be the case that legal certainty must be at the top, that the state is on the side of the citizen, because what should the citizen do to the state? Nor could we imagine a situation in which one would accept that a company that was rooted in its accounts and IT systems, for example, said to them, it owed money, that they had to wait 3 years, because it had to get its own systems under control. It's made this mess itself, it can't figure out how to control it, and it's been bad at looking and everything else, but they're just gonna have to wait. It's not their fault, but they're gonna have to wait. That's what the government is doing now. The state, the SKAT, has created the problems of that system itself, and then it is said that the limitation period is postponed by three years. That is really questionable from the point of view of legal certainty. Conversely, and this makes it possible for us to vote in favour of the proposal, a balance must be struck against the interests of the state when it comes to people who owe public money. These are claims for a large amount, and society obviously has an interest in ensuring that when you owe money, you also have to pay that money. But I think it is important not only to close one's eyes but to put things on a scales and say: we are the last chance to defend the citizens. After all, there is no one but the Folketing who can defend the citizens. And if you just let go of the fact that, in principle, people can be called in and deadlines postponed, then citizens are powerless to the system. So, in the light of that and in the light of fore and against, we have ended up supporting the proposal, because it will be most beneficial for society to get those claims in when people owe money. There are principles in it too. You can't just get away from it. But we are concerned about simply postponing such a limitation period without further ado. But on the conservative side we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103725	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103732	Thank you. Sloppy in the SKAT, says the rapporteur. The sluggishness of the SKAT is certainly due very much to the political framework which the rapporteur's party, among other things, has. during the VK period, it helped set up for SKAT. I think it's a bit nasty to wipe this off on employees and leaders in the SKAT, when the reality is that a political majority in here has saved the SKAT to the bottom of the results we are now facing, but leave it at that. The rapporteur is very concerned about the legal certainty of this, I understand that but will nevertheless support the proposal. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the fact that the comments on the draft law state that if you had employed enough staff in the SKAT, you could actually have avoided restricting the legal certainty of citizens. At least that is how I understand the comments. Is the rapporteur prepared to go that way instead of being able to ensure that it is not the citizens, but we, as politicians in here, who take responsibility for correcting the scandal that has been caused by the savings that have been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103841	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103843	There are two elements to the questioner's question. One element is that it is inevitable to say that there has been a management failure in the SKAT with regard to an IT system. That's what happened. A system has been set up and it has not worked. And then the government made a decision about a month ago to scrap it. This was done in consultation with the Chamber Attorney and so on, and it was quite a sensible decision, but there has been a failure of management. There is. The second part of the question is about resources. Well, my opinion is that you have to recover the debts that people owe. We must devote the resources we need to that end. I think SKAT has a lot of resources. I'm not the director of the SKAT or the minister. They have to decide how they use the resources. The alternative could be, as I mentioned here, that the municipalities were given a greater opportunity to recover those claims themselves and that private companies were also allowed to recover those claims. We have professional companies to do that, because, of course, when people owe public money, they have to pay money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103945	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030103946	It is possible that this is also a management failure, but the fact is that, before a system worked because of the cuts that have been raining down the SKAT for decades, it was simply not able to solve this task because the IT system did not work and the employees who were able to do it manually had been disposed of before they were sure that it worked. There is political responsibility for changing tax ministers and changing governments. I think it's very wrong to try to run away from that. However, I do not think I was given a very clear answer to my question, namely whether the rapporteur's party is prepared, if it can solve the problem, to give the necessary staff to the SKAT to carry out a manual recovery, which means that you do not have to postpone this limitation period.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104041	I am not enough on the question of resources in the SKAT, as to how many people are needed to do that task, but I note that the limitation period will be postponed in a few weeks' time, so that at least it will not be possible to achieve it by whatever means. So it's a mistake in an IT system that hasn't been dealt with in the past, but it's a management task in the SKAT to make sure that money gets into the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104104	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104107	I should like to begin by regretting that when it was made clear, as it were, that Mr. Martin Lidegaard had not met, there was a good reason for this. I have been asked, as a rounding-off to my rapporteur's speech, to inform the Radicals of their support for the proposal. I forgot, but now it's on record, and I'm sorry to hear about that. Martin Lidegaard that I neglected. In addition, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about this with resources. I do not agree with Enhedslisten that it is so easy with the acute issue. These are quite different figures from those we have on the table to avoid a proposal like this. However, several other rapporteurs, including myself, have indicated to the tax minister that if there was a need for more than those who are committed to the understanding that is now, then we were ready to support it. I just wanted to know whether the Conservative People's Party would also be ready to use the resources it would immediately cost to have the manpower needed to carry out this manual task in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104205	Thank you. I do not think that a request from another rapporteur is part of the brief remarks, but at least it is now entered in the accounts. There was a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104211	It is, of course, the prerogative of the government to prioritise the resources available. I am not smart enough to judge how much resources are needed, but the principle that the claims owed by people must of course be recovered is important and crucial, also for a community governed by the law. In the same way as I am concerned about the fact that a limitation period is simply postponed, I would also be concerned that some claims have been given up. It is, of course, extremely important in principle that people who owe public money pay, because it is the whole box, the funding of our entire society that smokes. But it must be up to an assessment by the government of what is needed of resources. I don't know enough about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104254	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104255	Nor can I say on the decimal point what may be needed further. What we have been talking about is that I and others have indicated in today's debate that if the tax minister should come to the conclusion that what is committed in the understanding of which both our parties are part is not sufficient, then we will also be ready to back it if there is a desire to use more resources to carry out proper manual recovery. So I am not asking the rapporteur to quantify what it may be, but simply to give an advance statement that this is so important, including for the Conservative People's Party, that you will be ready to give financial priority if the wish comes from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104335	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104337	In other words, if the government makes such a wish, it is because it has judged that the allocation of resources is needed because it will recover the claims, and then we will of course look at it positively. We have no prerequisites for knowing how many should be placed each place in the SKAT. It is the government that has that premise by means of the SKAT and the Department. So we will, of course, listen constructively to it if the government makes such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104359	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more questions and no more rapporteur speeches. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030104409	Thank you. I thank you for the broad and positive reception given to the draft law. It's on a slave's backdrop to use a North Jutland expression. Nevertheless, I am glad that there are so many parties who recognise, on the one hand, the dilemma inherent in the draft law, i.e. that we have a very, very large and serious problem of recovery, and, on the other hand, say that we have to resolve it and ask how we can do it and can therefore see ourselves in the way the government is going in this draft law on limitation. I'd like to sign for that. The background to the draft law that we are discussing today, as a number of rapporteurs have mentioned, is an extraordinary situation. As the report by the Ministry of Taxation on EFI, which is therefore responsible for a single recovery system, shows, on 25 September, I notified the Committee on Taxation that all automatic recovery was stopped on 18 September. The background was that the Attorney General had uncovered a number of errors and illegal situations in EFI and the related, less controversial, but unfortunately equally flawed IT system called DMI, which is connected with EFI. Recovery will therefore not, or only to a very limited extent, be supported for a period of time. In other words, recovery, which is going to take place in the near future, must be done almost manually. In addition, there is a great deal of work to be done to clean up the SKAT, which has to review all the claims that there are doubts about recovery. That's what they call the gray claims. The Government therefore proposes that the limitation period be stopped for a period of 3 years, so that there is no further unintentional limitation of claims during recovery. To explain this in general Danish, it is ensured that the people who owe money to the state and have debts, including tax debts, and do not pay, do not have to pay. This means that the limitation period may not be registered until 20 November 2018. If we do not stop the obsolescence, it may leave a big hole in the treasury in the coming years. It will hit welfare and give less money for tax relief and other good purposes. So it may be the very large majority of Danes who pay their debts to the public who will actually pay the bill. I do not think that is right or right, and I am glad that a broad majority in the Folketing can see itself in the difficult but correct balance. It has been said that legal certainty is being violated by this proposal. Some of the interested parties have also mentioned this. In fact, I do not agree with that. Citizens who have debts to the public are well aware that the debt has to be paid and I do not think that the fact that an IT system does not work should lead them to avoid paying their debts. What I consider to be legally questionable about the proposal is that the state makes special legislation by going in and saying that we have obsolescence legislation that we cannot live up to. We're gonna have to cut out the obsolescence with a bill. That's not very nice. This is a matter of legal certainty and something that must only be done in very, very unusual situations, but it is therefore a very, very unusual situation. It is clear that legal certainty plays a key role, not least when it comes to recovering debts from citizens. At the same time, however, we must bear in mind that the public authorities cannot choose their debtors in the same way as private creditors. Therefore, SKAT already has some options that private creditors do not have. This applies, among other things, to: the possibility of interrupting the limitation period in the event of wage maintenance. So we're back to the crux of the matter. The IT support, which includes: In other words, for a period of time, the wage maintenance is dependent on being absent. Finally, I would like to stress that this bill is obviously not alone. The government, together with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, has agreed a common understanding to create a better framework for SKAT's performance of tasks, including future recovery. Among other things: we have added resources to the SKAT so that SKAT can deal with the acute challenges we face. In addition, we have started extensive work with a view to establishing a new, better, well-functioning recovery system. At the same time, work is being done to establish temporary system support until the new system has been put into effect. To put it intelligible terms, you have to use IT to support the recovery task, but the path you have chosen in the past with complete automatic recovery is not a viable one. Part of the work on establishing a new and better recovery system is to look at how the legislation in the field of recovery can be simplified so that the complexity of the rules to be supported by the systems is reduced. It's absolutely central. It will also require legislation here in the Folketing later in the parliamentary assembly. It is clear, as some have said, that there is a need to assess on an ongoing basis whether the plan we have put in place and for which I, as the tax minister, am primarily responsible, is sufficient. If this proves not to be the case, we must look at whether new initiatives or more resources are needed. I am discussing this with the entire Parliamentary Tax Committee, but especially with the parties that are behind this broad understanding. I hope, and this also indicates that there will be broad political support for the adoption of the bill. If I am going to deal briefly with some of the things that some of the rapporteurs have raised here today and may also travel during the committee procedure, I would say that the Enhedslisten is asking if there is another way to go. Is it possible, instead of doing this, to add extra staff resources? We can do that, but if you look at the task of the obsolescence-disrupting trait overall, you can see that there have been periods when half of SKAT's employees in the field of recovery have not solved their core task of getting money in the box, but have only had tasks to stop obsolescence. Those employees don't have to do it anymore. They can now start to actually get money in the box, but that's a way to go if you want to. However, the extent of the overall recovery task, including the grey debts, will require many, many thousands of years' work to be employed. I think that in one of the reports made I can't remember exactly which one of them you mention this challenge of just going through the gray claims. If you had to do it manually, it would take many, many thousands of years to do it. I think it is only right to say that it is not a viable way to go, also because it is some people who need to be trained to do so. You can't just bring in random people. In fact, some people need to be trained in this direction. We can do that during the committee procedure, but I believe and hope that it will become apparent to the Enhedslisten that this is actually the only way to proceed immediately if this is to be resolved as quickly and painlessly as possible, even without any unnecessary burden on citizens. Then I note that the Liberal Alliance and a number of other parties will follow the SKAT and the tax minister to see if the plan that has now been put into effect is being implemented. I'm glad somebody's watching it. The Socialist rapporteur also mentioned this. And I understand that the Radical Left supports the proposal, they are also one of the parties behind it. On the issue raised by the SF about when the bill will be applicable, I would like to say that, as Minister for Taxation, it has been important for me that it is from the adoption of the bill, that is, on 19 November, and not before, and that we do not legislate retroactively. I think that, in general, we should refrain from doing so when it is not in the interests of our citizens. If it favours the citizens, of course it is a different matter. So that is why it has become so, and I hope that we can have a discussion on the second issue raised by the SF. This is the question of how municipalities can play a greater role. That question has also been raised by a number of other parties, among others. Conservative People's Party. I'm going constructively to that task. I have also had a meeting with KL, and I can see that there are various municipalities that express in the daily press that they want to play a greater role in the recovery tasks. I look at this constructively. You just have to keep in mind that out of the 75 billion. DKr, which is the nominal value of the value of the value of the value of the public money, is less than the municipalities' part of the recovery of the sum of 2.5-3,5 billion. kr. But we would like to look at this and discuss it with KL and the municipalities that might wish to have more freedom. I think that this should be the brief comments I have to make on the debate. Then I would like to thank you for the largely positive reception. I look forward to the committee reading, and I am also pleased that there are lots of parties that point to the fact that it is unwise to have such a legislative proposal, but this is an unusual situation and we must have the recovery task to work. We can do that if we adopt this bill and if we get a temporary recovery organisation to stand in the SKAT. I'm gonna work for that as a tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105334	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105339	It is a bad thing, says the Minister, and practically everyone in the debate has agreed that there are some problems here of a legal nature, but it is basically about people wanting to have a long-term uncertainty about what their economy looks like. And it's uncomfortable for all of us to be in situations like this. That is also why I keep digging a little bit into this, because the comments show that if you do not adopt this bill, it will mean that you have to hire some more. In other words, a solution could be instead to increase the number of employees. I have, of course, heard what the Minister says about it being thousands. Then it can be said that it is also several thousand employees who have been made redundant in SKAT over the last few decades, so perhaps it is the real need. It is a fear that I think many people who know about IT development can sit with. Is this problem solved in three years? Or will we be in the same situation again? That is why I would like to ask the Minister: can we, during the committee procedure, have an estimate of whether, if we now employed 1,000 people, we could reduce this delay to a shorter period of time and further out of that period? What's the need? How many employees will it take to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105452	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105454	If Enhedslisten asks a question, I will answer as Minister as enlightening as I can at all. It should be remembered that those who many thousands of employees would have to be financed somewhere. I recognise that it can be a little dull in such a resource discussion that red and blue blocks often have with each other. On the one hand, some say that we should not add more resources and that we should just make it more effective. On the other hand, the others say that we must add more resources, because then everything will go well. So, the world is a little more nuanced, and it is also confirmed by Jørn Rise, who is president of one of the major trade unions in the SKAT, who recognizes the premise that those new recovery workers are being recruited over the next two years. They do this because the people you need are not out there because the pantheon education does not exist anymore. It was wrongly thought that effective fully automatic recovery could be achieved. So you can't just go out there and find 1,000 or 2,000 or 3,000 people to solve this problem. They need to be trained first. That is why it is the path set out in the draft law that I believe is the most viable path.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105601	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105603	The minister says this has to be funded. But there's the special thing about SKAT, and that's what makes this process so grotesque and absurd, that when we cut down in SKAT, it has had the consequences that we haven't got more money in the box, but less money in the box. Every employee of the SKAT earns his own value home countless times. That's why this isn't just a political issue. Everyone can see that what has happened in the last few decades has just been, excuse me, unsavory, stupid and completely wrong. But my last question is in a different direction. I was talking about social differentiation. How will the government feel about saying that there are groups like this? early retirement and old-age pensioners who are never going to be able to pay their debts because they do not have the prospect of an increase in income? You could differentiate in relation to this delay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105651	I think we should treat people equally, and if you have debt, there's a reason for that. You're responsible for that. That is why I do not wish to make the distinction that Mr. Pelle Dragsted is setting up. I believe that the wish that some have made concerns people convicted of crime and with high legal costs, but with no ability to pay. And they're part of this recovery debt and some of those that would let go. I simply do not think they should be allowed to avoid paying, and that is why they should not receive better treatment than any other person who pays their debts, or anyone else who has debts, but, of course, ability to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105727	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105731	Thank you. The way in which the Minister referred to the debt recovery that is in the municipalities sounded a little like it's some kind of pennies. I just want the Minister to make it clear that it is not. Doesn't the Minister agree with that? Well, I'm glad that the minister is rejecting that, because in the main picture it is of course a smaller share, but doesn't the minister think just to get it clarified that when it comes to 2-3 billion. kr. For municipalities that are as tense as they are, will it have consequences for the municipalities if they do not recover this money? It can be felt out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105806	Well, a billion is a billion, and 10,000 is 10,000. 10,000 kroner. is a lot of money for me, and 1 billion. kr. is a great deal of money, so of course this is something we need to take seriously and municipalities must be given the opportunity to carry out their recovery task. The municipalities are actually quite well placed in relation to some of the others who send claims to SKAT and to the state. They are guaranteed a certain amount of money, depending on the amount of the claim. But I would like to help discuss it if the National Association of Municipalities or individual municipalities want more freedom in the solution of that task. Fortunately, for the municipalities this is more a liquidity challenge than that it affects them on welfare. After all, an overall framework has been agreed for the municipalities' economy, and this will have an impact on the liquidity part, but not on how much money the municipalities can actually spend. But we take the problems seriously and try to find a good and constructive solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105909	Then I thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030105929	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 3 November 2015. It's sir. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030110001	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister and to the rapporteurs for running for this important debate. I would now like to explain the question. The reason for this question is that, before the opening of the Danish Parliament, it was announced that the daily allowance commission would publish its recommendations on 19 October. That is why we in the Enhedslisten wanted an urgent debate to be convened which could then be held on the day following the publication of the Commission's report. The aim was to have an open debate here in Parliament before the political negotiations started, so that the many thousands of people involved could get a picture of where the parties stood before they rolled down the curtains. Unfortunately, only the SF and the Alternative wanted a quick debate here in the Chamber of the Commission's recommendations and thanks to the two parties for that and, unfortunately, that was not enough to carry out an urgent request requiring the support of several parties. Three other parties were more keen to get together very quickly if they had not already done so before, and to settle in all haste, which was presented to the public on 22 October 3 days after the publication of the Commission's report. That only makes today's inquiry debate even more topical. It is certainly not surprising to the conciliation parties that if it is up to the Enhedslisten, this debate will be very much about the consequences of the conciliation that the three parties have concluded, with the following questions as a starting point: is the problem resolved? Are there any real answers to the many thousands who have lost their right to benefit and the many thousands who are going to lose it in the future? Are there any answers to the many people who have to live on cash benefits or without support when they have lost the right to benefit? Is it reasonable that it is the unemployed themselves who should finance the improvements that lie in the conciliation, through the introduction of carnage days and a drastic reduction in the graduation rate? Is there a basis for what everyone says they want, a secure benefit system that can restore the security lost by employees when the VKO parties adopted their unemployment benefit reform in 2010? And if that is not the case, how do we look forward to it? In the Enhedslisten we look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030110227	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. And then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030110244	Thank you for the floor. May I begin by saying that I have had to understand the question in such a way that it is a question about the unemployment benefit reform of 2010. The question has been submitted to the Folketing prior to the conclusion of an agreement on a revised benefit system last week. However, as things have been set up here, I have had to assume that it is a question concerning the unemployment benefit reform of 2010. So as regards the 2010 reform, these were changes to the benefit system, which followed the agreement on the recovery of the Danish economy concluded by the then VK government and the Danish People's Party. The reason for the recovery agreement was that at that time Denmark had started to draw free from the financial crisis that hit in 2008 but that public surpluses had turned into large deficits. At the time of the conclusion of the recovery agreement, the government deficit was expected to reach 90 billion by 2010 alone. kr. In other words, there was an obvious need for an adjustment of public expenditure and revenue, and the recovery agreement was an expression of such an adjustment. The agreement made a number of changes in the area of cash benefits. First of all, a shortening of the benefit period from four to two years and harmonization of the requirement for earning and earning the right to benefit for 52 weeks' employment were introduced. As regards the consequences of the reform, the main focus has been on the shortening of the benefit period and the harmonisation of the recovery requirement. Of course, there may be political disagreements with the changes, but it is indisputable that both have strengthened public finances and structural employment. When the recovery agreement was concluded in 2010, the government estimated that the shortening of the benefit period would increase structural employment by 11,000 full-time persons, while the change in the recovery requirement would increase structural employment by 2,000 people. Overall, therefore, it was estimated that structural employment would increase by a total of 13,000 full-time people. The benefit commission has now also looked at the effects of the reform, and the Commission considers that the changes to the daily allowance period and the recovery requirement in 2010 in isolation have improved structural employment by 15,000 people and that the effect has therefore been higher than estimated back in 2010. As you know, a very controversial consequence of the reform has also been the number of people who have exhausted the right to benefit. It may not come as a shock when I find that some estimates were continually made which turned out not to be true. More persons than expected exhausted the benefit entitlement. Not least against this background, there has been a political desire to support fewer people using up the right to unemployment benefit or, in other words, to have a benefit system that provides financial security for members affected by involuntary unemployment. I believe that the government has addressed this with the recently concluded agreement on a safer benefit system, which a broad majority in the Folketing has chosen to support. I have also noted that the LO supports the agreement, and I am, of course, pleased because I think we have found the right balance in the benefit system between ensuring flexibility, security and strong incentives to take a job. In the presentation of this question, the question arises as to what I will do to secure sufficient funds for the benefit system. And that question has been overtaken by the conclusion of the agreement on a safer benefit system, which provides sufficient funds for the changes in the benefit system that a broad majority of the Folketing now supports. There is no funding of 300 million. kr. Annually from 2017 onwards. The parties to the agreement have committed each other to jointly finding this money outside the benefit system, and we will, of course, do so. Finally, let me stress that I believe that last week's agreement is a good result which both employees and employers in Denmark can welcome. I hope that the agreement will provide the necessary calm and stability in an area that affects a great many people in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030110814	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the questioners in the actual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030110825	Thank you. I am glad, then, that the Minister also read the second part of the question, so that we still received some reports from the Minister about the benefit agreement that has been concluded. But let us start with some facts, all of which are based on answers we have received from the Minister. By the end of June this year, 59,480 persons have lost their right to benefit since the reform came into force in 2013. How did it go with these approx. 60,000 people? In week 26 this year the picture looks like this: about a third are registered with a wage income, approx. 40% are either on cash benefits or labour market benefits, or they are so-called self-supporting, i.e. without earnings and without public benefits. The rest is divided into a number of other public services. Only 5%. have been given stable work to a degree to enable them to regain the right to benefit. In other words, the result of VK's and Dansk Folkeparti's unemployment benefit reform is that approx. 25,000 people have experienced a sharp drop in income from cash benefits to the rate of cash benefits or that they have ended up without support. What is the current trend? The Minister states that in the first half of 2015, an average of 335 people have lost the right to benefit • per week, as well as a mark. At year level, this corresponds to approx. 17,500 people. The Minister also states that in the first half of the year, an average of 126 persons have lost their entitlement to the temporary labour market benefit, i.e. 126 per week. AK-Samvirke states that the figure for the following months for this group is approx. 200 a week. At the same time, they estimate that approx. 70% of these cannot receive cash benefits on account of the spouse's income. This will result in the group of self-employed people growing by approx. 5,600 people. Unless the business cycle is reversed, we can therefore look forward to a further approx. 17,000 people who lose their daily benefit rights, of which approx. 40% either end up on cash benefits or on one of the temporary benefits phased out by 2017 or end up completely without income. The first question is: has the settlement reached by the Left, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party on 22 October resolved the problem? The answer is no. According to their own figures, the settlement is expected to reduce by approx. 2 000 a year, subject to a situation of significantly higher employment than today. You can then subtract that from the 17,000. This modest figure is, of course, due to the fact that VKO's unemployment benefit reform is largely unanticipated. There is still only two years of unemployment benefit, still a requirement for one year's work to re-establish the right to benefit, which is still a serious deterioration in the availability of supplementary cash benefits. Second question: are there any answers in the compromise to the many who have already lost the right to benefit and who may even live without support? The short answer is no. Third question: is it fair or just that it is mainly the unemployed themselves who finance the improvements that are, after all, in the conciliation? For that is what is happening through a drastic reduction in the daily allowance rate for newly trained non-parents and the introduction of three days a year. I guess that's not fair and fair. As the figures show, the unemployed have already paid so much. The conclusion is that we have not got a durable benefit system that can provide workers with security when they become unemployed. The system is not future-proof either. The conciliation parties have not dealt at all with the erosion of the daily allowance due to an already inadequate regulation and the drastic deterioration resulting from the tax reform, which is equivalent to the loss of one month's daily allowance by the unemployed person in 2023. The Enhedslisten's offer is as follows: We must introduce a job and training guarantee so that before the end of a 2-year period all unemployed persons are offered at least 1 year's ordinary work or appropriate training on daily allowances. The allowance must be increased to cover much better the income of an average LO worker. This view may not have much support in this Chamber. We are happy to cooperate on minor improvements, provided that it is not financed by the unemployed themselves. There's no advice, we'll know. We simply do not understand that. The draft Finance Act 2016 shows that there are 3.5 billion. kr. less in expenditure on this item than in 2013. It is a political choice and it is an important choice. It's not just about the individual who gets hit. It's about us wanting a safe society. It is also about employees' opportunities for good pay and working conditions. If everyone is terrified of being fired, solidarity has cramped conditions, but employers have crowned days. That is at the heart of this debate. Then, if I may, on behalf of the President, on behalf of the SF, the Alternative and Enhedslisten, I would like to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the 2010 unemployment benefit reform has led to less security for employees, that in the future too many thousands will lose their entitlement to benefits every year and that many of them will lose their support altogether. The Danish Parliament therefore notes that although the compromise reached between S, DF and Left contains some improvements, it does not solve the problem and that the improvements are mainly financed by the unemployed themselves, among other things. through the introduction of caring days and the reduction of the daily allowance rate for new graduates. Finally, the Folketing notes that the new agreement builds on the erroneous view that when the unemployed are not in employment, it is due to the lack of initiative from the unemployed and not to job shortages. The Danish Parliament therefore calls on the government to propose a flexible and solidarity system for the benefit of workers when they become unemployed and are not financed by reductions for the unemployed. • V (4). • V (4). •
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111447	A proposal has been submitted for adoption, and this is part of the debate that we must have in the future. Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111459	Thank you. I just want to ask simply: will the rapporteur recognise that this reform or this conciliation, which was made a week or two ago, is, in fact, better than the 2010 reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111518	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111521	I acknowledge, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that there are some improvements in it, but I do not want to acknowledge that overall it is better, for the simple reason, which I also did a great deal to explain in my rapporteur's speech, that improvements are mainly financed by the unemployed themselves through the deterioration of the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111538	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111541	In other words, the Enhedslisten actually believes that the conciliation that has become the country is better than the 2010 reform. Does the rapporteur also accept that with the settlement that has been made, fewer people will fall out, that you can actually earn cash benefits more easily, for example? for 3 months' work, which will provide 6 months of unemployment benefit and that it has actually become better and more flexible than following the 2010 unemployment benefit reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111605	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111608	I do not think the Socialist rapporteur really listened. The rapporteur asked if I would acknowledge that, overall, the conciliation that has been concluded is better than the unemployment benefit reform that we have since 2010. And I replied by saying that I cannot accept that. I recognise that there are improvements and the example mentioned by the rapporteur is one of them, but overall it is not better when it is mainly the unemployed who finance it themselves. There are some deteriorations, some clear deteriorations, of the rules that existed in the cash benefits settlement of 2010. After all, these are some new deteriorations which do not exist in today's benefit rules, namely the introduction of carnage... Sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111653	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111701	Thank you. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for bringing this debate into the Parliamentary Chamber. We are standing here and having a discussion on the basis of an agreement reached by a broad majority in the Folketing on improvements to the benefit system. I just need to ask Enhedslisten if the Enhedslisten can not become more concrete about what improvements Enhedslisten thinks is in the agreement that has been reached. Well, we've had a problem with the unemployed having no incentive to take jobs of shorter duration. Is it not true that there has been an absolute improvement here, both for the unemployed and for society in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111744	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111746	I have already recognised that there is an improvement in terms of being able, on an ongoing and more flexible basis, to reclaim or, to put it bluntly, earn the right to benefit, I would have said, because it is not a change in the rules on recovery that has been agreed here. It is still one year's work in the last three years if you have lost your right to benefit and have to reclaim your right to benefit. That element of the reform of the VKO parties is completely unabated. What has been introduced is a rule for a more continuous recovery of the right to benefit, which means that part of the unemployed will be able to postpone the time when they lose the right to benefit. The really lucky ones can do it with as much as one year. The great mass of them won't be able to get that far at all. The figures show that it is between 2 and 4 months that they can extend their benefit rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111842	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111844	I welcome the fact that, after all, Enhedslisten can see that there is an element here that both improves the opportunities available but also generally takes into account the interest of society in people taking jobs of shorter duration. We have the problem today that it is doubtful whether, when you are unemployed, you have an interest in it. Finally, I would just like to ask: are there any other improvements to the benefit system that have been agreed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111921	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030111924	There is, but I think that the rapporteur himself is much better at listing them than I am, so we can have that discussion when the rapporteur himself has been on the floor. I would just like to say that the Enhedslisten does not recognise the premise that is being used to justify the improvement we have just spoken about, namely that there should not be an incentive for the unemployed to take up a job today. We recognise that it is an advantage that you can postpone the time when you lose your right to benefit. We recognise that. However, we do not recognise the premise behind both that point and other points in the benefit settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112002	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112006	Thank you, President. I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, about that, sir. Finn Sørensen says that the work that the Commission has done is simply miserable, in the view of Enhedslisten, that the work that the LO has put into it is a joke and that the LO should not have participated in it at all. Mr. Finn Sørensen, that what they've gotten out of the kicks, just doesn't work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112039	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112043	I have expressed it much more clearly in the media. The Enhedslisten has been opposed from the outset to the terms of reference of the benefit commission. That is the real problem. The Commission was handcuffed and put in a straitjacket which stated that it should not make any recommendations which made the benefit system more expensive. It had to use the calculators they use in the Ministry of Finance, and it is of course that a code has been put in that if you take some money from the unemployed, there are more people going to work. We have said from the outset that this is a false basis, and I have also said not long ago that that commission should have been closed. And that is the same as saying that it should never have been reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112125	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112128	Well, that's kind of a clear speech from sir. Finn Sørensen. This means that Enhedslisten actually says that the LO has simply not done their job well enough and that they should have stayed far away from this work. That's kind of it, sir. Finn Sørensen means, if I interpret it correctly. It is not certain that I interpret it in the right way, but that is actually the approach to Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks the LO should have stayed far away from this job. But they have entered into some negotiations and introduced how they think this can be arranged, and of course we have also accepted that here in the Folketing. But a clear message from Mr. Finn Sørensen: Is it true that Mr. Finn Sørensen says that the LO has done a bad job?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112212	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112215	I haven't blamed LO for going into the commission's work. But I have also said in the media, and I can confirm this here from the platform, that I simply cannot understand that the trade union movement is contributing to recommendations which lead to deterioration for their members.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112230	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112241	I'd like to ask Mr. Finn Sørensen, whether he acknowledges that the unemployment benefit reform of 2010 has actually ensured that more people are in work today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112253	No, I don't recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112256	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112258	The Economic Council has made an inventory in Danish Economics, autumn 2014·, which shows that approx. 15,000 extra jobs, that is to say employment has increased by approx. 15,000 people, because the fact that benefits expire earlier makes more people look for work more quickly. Instead of waiting four years to look for work when the benefit expires, you are now looking for work after two years when the benefit expires. In this way, it is therefore a fact that it has been a reform that has increased employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112330	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112332	The fact that people are looking for work earlier than they would otherwise have done is not the same as the fact that they are going to work. And it is impossible from the financial wise men's report to draw the facts. I would like to look forward to the Conservative rapporteur giving a detailed account of the jobs that have been created and that have been manned by unemployed people as a result of the reform that was carried out in 2010. I think that's gonna be a pretty difficult exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112401	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, the Social Democrats, is the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112410	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for raising this debate. It is very important to discuss the benefit system. This is something we have been discussing for many years, and it is also something that has been discussed in the small homes. Let us start by addressing the unemployment benefit reform of 2010. I think it was a really, really bad reform that was being carried out in the middle of a time of crisis when people lost their jobs. And at the same time, the then VK government actually went out and made it harder to obtain cash benefits. It was really, really bad. I know that the Danish People's Party later tried to say: Well, it was because we didn't expect the crisis to last for so long. This was later seen to be nonsense, and they were well aware of it. It was so clever that the reform would come into force on 1 July 2012, because then a new government would have joined, which means that the monkey would simply be passed on. We were in a situation where thousands of people were in a difficult situation. Sixty thousand lost their daily allowance, and many families were in huge uncertainty. Everyone knows that after the 2011 elections, when a Social Democratic government came to power, there was no majority to change this. But what did we do? We did something that all people, including in here, called patching solutions. We made a temporary extension of the daily allowance, we made some emergency packages so that a special effort could be made to get the unemployed started. We even agreed with some company owners to make an emergency job package to try to see if we could not get more people into work. We set up an education scheme to say this: can we not get some of them here in education and get them to work? We introduced temporary labour market benefits and cash benefits. So no one has had zero kroner due to the 2010 reform. If there had been a bourgeois government, many of these people would have had nothing to live on after July 1, 2012. It may have been called patching, but it cost 41⁄2 billion. kr. At the same time, in fact, we also wanted a different unemployment benefit reform, which is why we set up this Commission with the social partners. Now, as I see it, far better unemployment benefit reform has been achieved through a settlement between the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, and more money has been added to the system. Some people don't think that's enough, but we've added 300 million to this system. kr. a year. And what I think is most important is that we have actually succeeded in nailing Finance Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stuck to the wall. They have now helped to make a broad unemployment benefit reform that is future-proof. They cannot, as in 2010, just come as a thief at night and go out and make an allowance reform. At least they're gonna have to get past us first, and I'm really comfortable with that. It is an allowance reform that can be safely expected over the next many years. 2,000 fewer people will fall out, and even more will get an extension. We have introduced a flexible benefit system to suit our current employment system and our labour market. This means that taking a job can be an answer, that it is easier than before to earn entitlement to the daily allowance even easier than before the old 2010 reform and that jobs with lower wages will of course not provide a lower daily allowance rate. So for me, it is important to say that we have made a safe allowance settlement. It is safe in that way that you can count on it for many years to come. A future Left Government or anything else cannot just change it into something that will be much more terrible, as we saw in 2010. Now we have a benefit system that is more understandable to the individual, more secure and more flexible. That is why I can actually stand here and be glad that the Socialists have been involved in this conciliation and glad that we have made a difference to the unemployed, who are the ones that are really at stake. There will also be a proposal for adoption, but that will be given to my fellow Member, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Andersen the honor of reading aloud when he comes up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112846	Thank you. So far there are three, now four brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030112854	Thank you for a well-laid post. It looks good for the rest of the day. I think the rapporteur must eat in him again, that no one has ended up without support as a result of this reform. The figures of the Minister for Employment show that there are 12 per cent. There is. So I think the rapporteur should read that out a little bit. That's over 7,000 people. Then the rapporteur says that the good thing about this is that you have nailed the Left and Conservative and Danish People's Party to the wall. Is that in line with reality? As I see it, it is the Socialists who have nailed themselves to the benefit of the VKO parties, for that is largely unabated. There's still a 2-year benefit period gone. There is still a 1-year requirement to reclaim the benefit right. There is still a sharp deterioration in supplementary cash benefits. After all, these are the problems that have created the situation we are facing, with the many thousands who have lost and are losing their right to benefit in the future. So will the rapporteur recognise that he may have to look at his own wrists, if not there should be some big nails where you have nailed the VKO parties' unemployment benefit reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113002	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113005	The difference is that Enhedslisten just wants to go in and add more money and rarely will also take responsibility. In fact, we have done so here. 300 million kr. extra has entered the system. There are 2 000 fewer people falling out and more will be longer in the benefit system. This would never have happened if the Socialists had not gone into that negotiating sport to go out with a better outcome to the negotiations. The thing about this money and the fewer that fall out would never have happened if we hadn't gone with it. So yes, there was a difference, and yes, I can nail those people down because none of them can change this to something far worse as long as we are in that debate, none. And that is just where there is a huge difference between Enhedslisten and Social Democracy, because we actually take responsibility and we find some good solutions for these unemployed people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113100	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113104	But it's both ways, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. The Social Democrats cannot change this either, because now the right of veto has been given to the Left and the Danish People's Party on the core elements of the unemployment benefit reform. You've disarmed yourself. You've taken away the opportunity. Unless you show courage and a man's heart and cancel this settlement for the upcoming parliamentary elections, you have committed yourself forever to the VKO parties' allowance reform with some small curls on top of it. Then I would like the rapporteur to take a look at the fact that the price of this participation has been that a drastic reduction, a reduction in the rate of graduating graduates who are not parents, and that three days of caring have been introduced, which means that the unemployed themselves will have to pay the bulk of the bill for the improvements that are also in the conciliation. Would the rapporteur like to confirm this, thank you?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113209	I just have to say once again that we have made a huge difference, and I do not need to mention the things we have done and which the Enhedslisten rapporteur also stood here and acknowledged. He said that, overall, it was a better benefit system. Yeah, we've made some fresh priorities in this benefit settlement, and I can sort of look at who's gonna lose some money and who's gonna get. The people I am concerned with, the people in whom the Social Democratic Party is concerned, are the 50-year-old or 55-year-old man who stands in the outskirts of Denmark, who has worked his whole life, who is unskilled and who has no chance of getting a hold of the labour market. We've created a better welfare system for him. He's in a much harder position, sir. Finn Sørensen, than the young person who just comes from education and who in general still gets away with an okay graduating movement. I would like to answer that even more, because I think it is still fine. But the difference between us and Finn Sørensen is that we've made a difference. We haven't just been out shouting. We have actually gone to the negotiating table and achieved a good result from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113312	The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113327	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would also like to say that he is absolutely right: the Socialists have made a difference. They have hammered a large stake through the possibilities of making the actual recovery. They've stopped at some little ripples on the water, and then they've said they had to brag about this with the bourgeois. The bourgeois people have won the prize in this debate, and none of the objectives that we had jointly set ourselves before the elections have been maintained by the Socialists. We still have two years' daily allowance, and we still have one year's work to reclaim the daily allowance, and nothing has been done about the supplementary allowance. What will the Socialists do to make the real recovery compared to 2010? Or are the Socialists really satisfied with the main thrust of the 2010 deterioration?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113412	From this presentation, it just sounds like Enhedslisten isn't happy that we've added 300 million. kr., as if you are not happy that 2 000 fewer people will fall out of the benefit system and as if you are not happy that more people can actually stay longer in the benefit system. Sounds like Enhedslisten doesn't care much about it. But I do, and I'm going to say: yes, I am So we are But I just have to say that the LO was on this commission and that the trade union movement also accepted these things. And I've heard Harald Børsting and others say this benefit system is much better. Okay, then we did something about funding, and let's discuss it, but this benefit system is way better than what was. That is what the trade union movement has said, I have no doubt that they mean, and I have no doubt that they are right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113507	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113513	Thank you. I think the rapporteur speaks out a lot. I asked three specific questions. Paragraph 1 has been added 300 million. kr., and point 2 has been removed more than 3 billion. kr., when the slaughterhouse took place under the bourgeois before the Social Democratic government, and they have not come back. Two years' daily allowance is still gone instead of four years we had before, and 1 year's recovery demands are still gone, both to get into the a-box and to reclaim. The problem raised by the rapporteur himself from this platform, namely the supplementary allowance, has not been resolved. Up to 6,000 people are still missing from the unemployment benefit system, and that's what we're focusing on. Is that not also a problem for the Socialists?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113554	There were many questions and yet none. Yeah, we've added 300 million. kr., and when the Social Democratic led government was there, we spent 4.5 billion. kr. to help these people. And yes, the benefit period is 2 years and the recovery period is 1 year. And yes, it's far better to reclaim now than it was before. Because if you worked for three months before the 2010 reform, you could not use it for the recovery. Now it is actually the case that if you work for 3 months, you get 6 months for the recovery. That is far better than what was before, and it is also much better than what was in 2010, and I recognise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113634	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113640	We can throw ourselves into a long discussion about who's been nailing who. I can only say, as I see it, that the Socialists are hanging naked on the cross. But I'd like to ask Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen: Where is the pain limit for the Social Democrats? I understand from the rapporteur that it is hard to be proud that a few thousand people should not now fall out of the past, and it is good that any progress is, of course, good to think about, and there are these 2,000-2,500 people who are now not getting the five cold toes and getting out of the system, but where are the Social Democrats' pain limits? As I understand it, the most optimistic estimate is that 7,000 people will be poured out, but when Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that it is perhaps only 2,000 people compared to the 14,000, so there is a range of 7,000 to 12,000 people who get kicked every year. Where are the Social Democrats' pain limits? Do you have any?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113726	I think it's pretty fun to hear exactly SF stand and say it about being naked on the cross. I remember SF in the election campaign braiding fingers with DF. One thought that now one had really made a difference, now one had taken hold of DF, one had become good friends with DF. But what did SF get out of it? Nothing. So we don't woo anyone. No, what we do as Social Democrats is that we go to the negotiating table and then we produce results. Then SF can stand and braid fingers and be naked on the cross, and whatever you want to be, I don't care about that. The most important thing for me is that we produce results, and we have done so. With regard to the pain limit, I would say: it was very good that we got it down to the 3 days of carnage, as the LO also suggested. It was important to us, for the 8 was simply too difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113808	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113812	So what you're thinking is, I wonder what I asked you? For that answer certainly has nothing to do with what I had considered, but that is how the worlds can be so different. And now it's again an amazing spin. For now a Social Democrat rapporteur can be persuaded to defend that someone gets carnage, because one tries to sell it under a spin heading that one went down from 8 to 3. No, you didn't, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, because you went up from 0 to 3. However, I would like to ask specifically about the fact that in our benefit system social criteria are now being introduced: how do the Socialists feel about the slippery path on which we are heading? I can see here that Professor Henning Jørgensen says: "We are now at risk of a slippery path where congestion criteria are spreading in the benefit system. At the same time, he says that when that happens, the Danish model is smoked. And what is referred to here is that you now have to have different graduation rates, depending on whether you have children or not. Is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is aware that it opens a door to discuss other things that could be as relevant as having children, namely whether you have a spouse, whether you have a fortune? What does Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen to the warning from Professor Henning Jørgensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030113916	That's how it is, and the SF knows that from when they were in government, and it was so little difficult for the SF back then that when you go into some negotiations, you have to both take and give. It was the same when I was a shop steward and faced these employers. And I'd say, yes, we've got 300 million. kr. Inside, and we've made sure 2,000 fewer fell out. SF got nothing. They made some new friends who wouldn't play with them anyway, and they got nothing. I just have to say to those parents that I am so glad that the Social Democrats are always thinking about the breadwinners. The breadwinners are having a hard time. We should not get the breadwinners into poverty, and that was one of the reasons why we did this, that we did something for the breadwinners. I can see that Karsten Hønge is shaking his head, and he may not want to do anything for the breadwinners. But he was given the opportunity, too, because he did not want to enter into any negotiations at all. They'd just stand there and braid their fingers, but we sort of made sure to give these parents something extra, and I'm really proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114007	Then I give the floor to Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114018	I noticed that the rapporteur said that we could count on a future-proof reform that can be safely anticipated over the next many years. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether this indicates that the rapporteur believes that a full and final solution has been found to the problem of unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114040	This shows that we have done so by a large majority: the Left, the DF and the Socialists. And, as far as I know, Radicals have also joined it. And the majority will in fact be large in the future too. That means that we have agreed to want something for these people, and that means that nobody can go in and change it unless we ask each other. A secure benefit system is safe in two ways: it is safe, because of course you can count on a support if you become unemployed, but it is also safe because you can count on this system to be there after the next election. We've secured that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114116	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114120	Then I would like to hear whether we can understand the rapporteur in such a way that we can confidently count on the Socialists not to terminate the conciliation and that the Socialists will not demand improvements in the daily allowance system in the next election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114136	Of course, I do not want to stand here and say that we are terminating a settlement that we have just reached. I would never do that. It can always be expected that the Socialists will keep an eye on how the benefits are going and, if some improvements are needed, we will always try to get them. We always have. We did that when we were in government. We have done so in the past, and we will continue to do so. You can count on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114155	Then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114201	Thank you. As part of this settlement, it's the graduates who will have to pay. These are some people who lose some benefits you have, for example, when you're on a student's salary. You lose cheap transport, you lose cheap student accommodation, and you lose some student discounts. In the past, the daily allowance for graduates is 18 per cent. lower, and with this settlement you cut another 121⁄2%. off. I would very much like an answer as to why it is precisely this group that has to pay in the compensation agreement that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114236	I answered that in the first place, but I would also like to say something else. A young person who has to choose whether to insure himself or not when he goes on an education has two options: either he can say that he will not insure himself but will have cash assistance, and if he can get it, he gets DKK 7,000. a month, or he can choose to say that he will insure himself and then go to the graduation rate, and then he will in future get nearly DKr 13,000. a month. That's a difference of 6,000 kroner. I don't think so, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, that there are quite a lot of young people who will choose the 7,000 DKK. rather than the 13,000 kroner. It's still an attractive system. That's 6,000 kroner. Who doesn't think it's attractive? So, of course, it's an attractive system. As I said before, I would like to have a benefit system which will help the unskilled person of 50 years of age who comes from the outskirts, because he is much harder than the young graduates, and we have helped them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114337	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114340	Now it's not like everyone in this country goes to college and gets SU. There is also a very large group that gets a student's salary. But what I really wanted to hear further is whether it is the policy of the Social Democratic Party that the level of the graduation rate that has been found is where it should be, or whether it is the policy of the Social Democratic Party, that it should actually be at the same level as that of the ordinary adult allowance recipient.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114409	I think it's a very good level.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114413	Then we go to the next questioner in line, and that's sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114418	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has a particular desire to ensure conditions for example. the unskilled person who has worked his whole life in an outskirts area. And I think we can all agree very much on that, that is to say there is a group here for which it is particularly important to have a secure system. It's just not what you've created here. The system that you have helped create, on which you will go for election and which you will defend in the future, is a system in which the unskilled worker who has worked his whole life has slashed and saved up for perhaps a small car, perhaps a small colonial garden house, loses his job when the country is hit by an economic crisis, and after 2 years goes out on its ass and elbows. Despite looking for a job, he goes out on, yeah, sorry, I don't know what the fuck. I'm sorry, President. There hasn't been any security here. The opposite has been created, which has created insecurity. Is this really the benefit system on which the Socialists will defend and vote in future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114524	Sir. Pelle Dragsted fixed himself in relation to the language, and I thought that was very good. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114532	Well, what's important to me is that the person we're talking about here is the unskilled 50-year-old from Udkantsdanmark, who has worked all his life. In fact, now has the opportunity to earn more than two years. As I said before, he can now take small, short-term jobs. He couldn't have done that in the past. I do not know whether it is the previous unemployment benefit reform from the past that Enhedslisten is so pleased about. But here, there is the improvement that he has the opportunity to take small short-term jobs and has the opportunity to stick to both the benefit system and the labour market. What is so good about this system is that, by having the opportunity to take short-term short-term jobs, we are actually giving him, these people, the opportunity to get out and take some jobs and really get the job market and stay in the labour market. That is what this is all about. It may be that Enhedslisten wants them to stay forever in the benefit system, but we will not. What we want is that we want them to work. That is why I think that this benefit system is very similar to the employment reform, which the Enhedslisten did not want to be part of the employment reform we made x years ago. And that's the match I really like.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114645	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114647	Yes, they match very well, because they are based on the idea that if you take the money from people, they get to work faster. It is sad that this view of human beings has also been taken over by the Socialists. When the VKO completed their unemployment benefit reform, the Social Democrats were all the way up in the red, with good reason, for 3 billion were stolen. kr. from the recipients of benefits. Then Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen out and said that money should be brought back crown by crown. You had 4 years on the watch to fulfill the election promise 4 years! Some temporary arrangements were made, as you say billions have been spent on the "Well, well, billions of those hokuspoku structure money; it was not billions that ended up in the pockets of the unemployed. It must then be understood that all the criticism of the shortening of the benefit period, of the shorter recovery period, of the stealing of 3 billion. The Socialists have given up now because we now have the right final benefit system, that is to say that this is the system on which the Socialists are going to vote and defend forward-looking? Does this mean, and is it to be understood, that the Socialists are no longer standing next to, for example. The unit list, the SF and the alternative, fighting for a better benefit system, but standing on the other side and defending an inadequate benefit system?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114807	I never recognize that making people poor makes a living. The Social Democratic Government abolished poverty benefits. And as you can understand, if you read in the press, we have not even been allowed to participate in the cash aid negotiations for the same reason. And here we will continue to stand. I would also say, in relation to the majority, that everyone knows that we did not have a majority for this in 2011. Then it happened that DF wavered and began to promise gold and green forests. I didn't believe that, and that's why we had to go into the settlement. But I just have to say that when the billions of dollars, those 4.5 billion. kr., used, did not end up in the pockets of the unemployed, of the unemployed, as I also hear Mr. Pelle Dragsted say "The Enhedslisten has failed because you were in that settlement." You helped find these billions of dollars, you helped make the solutions that we got, and that I'm hearing now, sir. Pelle Dragsted said was of no use at all. Then Enhedslisten has really failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114904	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030114912	Thank you. The question here is a little about who is nailing who is fixed in relation to the conclusion of agreements. I would therefore like to ask a few questions about how much the Socialists stand by their own agreements. It is the case that we have an employment agreement from June last year, which states in the text of the agreement that there is agreement to abolish a compensation date from 2015, another one in 2017 and the last one in 2018, so that compensation days for persons with less than 3 months' employment have been abolished from 2018. It was an agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. Now we have found that an agreement has been reached between the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Socialists, which appears to be in contradiction with the agreement we have with the parties. And that is why I would very much like to have confirmation that the Socialists stand by the agreement that we have from June last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115006	We made a deal and a settlement with the government about the cash benefits, and there was this G-Day thing. And if the Conservatives have any problems with that, they must address the Finance Minister and their own government, which they so want to have in power, because they are the ones who have taken it with them and proposed it. So I would suggest that the Minister of Finance should be addressed and asked the same question, because it is the government that has the right to serve.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115027	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115031	We will also have the discussion with the government, but now I am just asking about the position of the Socialists, because I think it may be a little easy just to wipe it off on the Left and say that only the Left is responsible for agreements that the Socialists have also concluded. So I would just like to hear about the position of the Socialists and whether you stand by the agreement we made last June.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115052	We always stand by agreements until we make a new one, and the cash settlement also brought these things, so of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115100	That was the last of the questions put to the rapporteur. Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115121	Thank you, President. I understand very well that Mr. Finn Sørensen would have liked to have had that question before the negotiations started. That's understandable. But now we have made an agreement between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party on a new unemployment benefit system which, in the view of the Danish People's Party, is long-lasting. I can imagine that the agreement will last for perhaps 20 years if the parties stand by what they have said and promised each other in the course of the negotiations. At least the Danish People's Party intends to live up to it. So it has to be a benefit system that you can count on to comply with for the next long time. In connection with this there have been a lot of discussions about the previous system, and there I can say that in connection with this, the Danish People's Party has probably been some of the first bourgeois to say that it does not work. I was at least out to say that it didn't really work out with the system that was from 2010 and that we were ready to change it. Before the 2011 elections, we clearly announced that we were ready to extend the benefit period because there were some problems and we could well see that it did not meet the conditions that had been given. We have also supported the measures that have been taken so far. The measures taken by the Social Democratic Party have been fully supported in terms of extensions, educational services and whatever it may be. So that's how we realized it didn't work out. That is why we were also looking forward to a proposal for a new benefit system being put forward by the Commission set up. We accepted the establishment of a benefit commission, and then we had to look at what they came with. They then made a proposal on which there was broad agreement in the Commission. Of course, there were some knots in it, for everything was not equally satisfactory. That's always the way it is, but if you're gonna get something and get something, you're gonna have to give something. We have accepted that, and we have negotiated a system which we believe is long-lasting. This means that there will be a flexible recovery system whereby the right to benefit can be renewed over a three-year period, because if the right to benefit has not been fully restored during the two-year period, the period can be extended by one year. It's the same thing about earning a daily allowance. An amount of DKK 212,400 is added over a period of time. in an account, and you've earned the cash benefits. This does not mean that those who have less income cannot earn a daily allowance. As Nina Smith said, you can actually make up to DKK 5,900. per month for a 3-year period and earning the right to daily subsistence allowance. That's of course 90 percent. of the salary you've been paid. So that way it is also more flexible. We have also looked at the use of the right to benefit. An hour model or day model has been introduced, or whatever you would call it, because we need an understandable system where you consume daily allowances with the time you have. Of course, this is not quite complete, because the supplementary allowance is not quite in place yet. What the Commission has come up with is not entirely accepted, so we have to negotiate that, and there, of course, the parties involved in the agreement must also find out what the best solution to it is. But far along the way, I think we have a new and improved benefit model. Then, of course, there is a lot of criticism about the Karensdays, and there we could not accept the 8s that were talked about, so it turned into 3 days of carnage. Of course, you can ask whether that is right or not, but that is what we have come up with. In this context there is also a lot of discussion about graduates, i.e. that the graduating rate was too low, but we should remember that it is not intended to make a life according to whether to go 1 or 2 years at the graduating rate. The graduates would like to get out as soon as possible and find a job, and there they should also be helped to find a job. It should not be the case that you say: Okay, now I'm done with my education, now it was nice to just take 1 or 2 years on a graduating rate. That is not what lies in it; it is certainly not what should be in it. If you can't find a job yourself, you need help finding a job. There are many opportunities for those who have taken an education, and it does not have to be exactly in one's own profession, one has to go out to find something, because one can look for a job even if one has a different job than just what one is trained for. I have tried that myself, and I believe that everyone can do that, so take a job and then look for another job if you are not completely satisfied with what you have. This is the way the Danish system is designed, and that is also why so many people change jobs. In general we actually think it's an OK. Deal that's been made. There are, of course, some small things that need to be adjusted in order to implement the law, but as a starting point we are perfectly satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115648	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115657	Thank you to the rapporteur, also for his understanding that we would like to have an urgent debate on the Commission's recommendations. But now the Danish People's Party helped to block the urgent debate. If the Danish People's Party had supported the request, we would have been very close to the two fifths required to have one. In Jyllands-Posten on 24 May this year, just before the election was released, the leader of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, quoted that he wanted to improve the benefit system, that more money was needed and that it was a fundamental premise for him that no one should suffer. And I quote: 'We are going for a system where what we see today is bottom and where better things are then put upstairs...'. Then there's this more flexible recovery thing, and so on. However, it was a clear signal to the voters that the Danish People's Party voted that there would be no further deterioration in the benefit system. But the rapporteur himself has admitted that it does so with caring days and graduation, and will the rapporteur confirm that this is a clear breach of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115803	Well, if sir... Finn Sørensen looks at the various statements that have been made, he can see that we have also said that if anything comes from the Commission that is better than what is, we are also ready to accept it. In other words, we should bear in mind that when you sit and negotiate, there are also compromises. I know, sir. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten may feel that if you cannot get it all, you will have nothing, but we must also give something to influence other areas and to get some of our own wishes through. That's the way it is all the way through. But if you have the clear view that you want nothing, if you can't get what you want from the start, then you're probably sure you don't get anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115854	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115856	Thank you. Enhedslisten doesn't say it's all or nothing. We are simply of the opinion that it cannot be right that there should be any deterioration for the benefit recipients. And that was what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also expressed before the elections. No electorate can have been in doubt that the Danish People's Party voted that there should be no deterioration. I just quoted him for that. It has happened anyway with the help of the Danish People's Party. These are deteriorations with the introduction of carnage days and with a drastic reduction in the graduation rate for non-parent graduates. These are clear deteriorations. Will the rapporteur then admit that this is a clear breach of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030115939	I'll give it to you, sir. Finn Sørensen doesn't admit to admitting, because if you look at the appointments made about caring days, people, if they take work for a very short time, will be out on those days of carnage. It's so simple. The system has been designed so that people are rewarded for taking some extra work. You get rewarded for taking small jobs. So do the graduatings. They can also work their way out of it by taking some small jobs. They're not supposed to go on a graduation year after year. That's max. Two years, they can go there. But they have the opportunity to take a job, and after 6 months they can have their graduating rate re-evaluated. It's the same with caring days. If you take a job for one week or two or three weeks, you're done with caring days. I don't think that's so bad again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120030	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120033	The rapporteur says: take some work; they can just take some work • young people or those who can be hit by carnage. How do you think it sounds in the ears of the unemployed around Denmark who have sought hundreds of jobs in the local area, outside their territory, all sorts of places that they can just take a job? The rapporteur, we have an allowance system because there is not enough work for all the unemployed. You cannot just take a job, because there are not jobs for all those who go out of work. Then we must not get rid of the arrogant approach to the Danes affected by unemployment. My question is: Does the Danish People's Party have a choice on the unemployment benefit system? Is it a satisfactory benefit system? Is this the benefit system we have today, which the Danish People's Party will defend in the future, and will there not be any proposals for a better benefit system from the Danish People's Party in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120130	I would remind the rapporteur that we in the Parliamentary Chamber are Des, and I hope that the rapporteur will follow the rules we have in the Parliamentary Chamber on how we address each other. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120140	Thank you, President. In any case, I can say so much that I do not believe that Mr. Pelle Dragsted can find anywhere where I've been arrogant to the unemployed. I guess I've been on the labour market for a little longer than Mr. Pelle Dragsted has, in different jobs and has a great deal of experience in terms of going unemployed, so I know what this is all about. I know it can be difficult to find a job, but I also know that there is an opportunity to take some small jobs from time to time. You can do that, and we've made it simpler with the new system here, so it's a lot easier to go in and take some small jobs. I am not saying that it is easy to find a full-time job for a very long time, but there is a development and there has also been a development in relation to more and more people entering jobs. But don't call me arrogant with the experience I have in the labour market and the knowledge I have about the labour market. I don't think so, sir. Pelle Dragsted comes a long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120232	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120233	I have great respect for the rapporteur's experience in the labour market, which is just the tendency that, when people have sat on these fine chairs for many years, it is sometimes forgotten what the conditions are for those who go out of work. And I think that the expression to take a job, that you can just take a job, we should leave this side of the Chamber My question is that when the Danish People's Party went to the daily allowance negotiations in 2010, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl entered the door, and when he came out again, 3 billion had been taken. kr. from the benefit system. You have now returned 300 million. kr., i.e. a tenth. In case someone had taken 3 billion. kr. from the rapporteur and came back with 300 million. kr. or had taken 1,000 kroner. from the rapporteur and came back with a tenth, should the rapporteur be grateful for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120334	I'll remind you, sir. Pelle Dragsted that when I stand up, it is because the speaking time is I must also remind you that we are addressing each other in the third person, and that means that you are not being said in this Chamber either. With these words, I shall give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120352	Thank you, President. As far as my own economy is concerned, I have never had that amount in my wallet, so I find it difficult to deal with the situation that I should lose 3 billion. kr. When we entered into the negotiations that began in 2008-09 it was not in 2010, the negotiations began and an agreement was made on the reform, we had some prerequisites, compared to how many could fall out of the benefit system. It was these 2,000-4,000, and our assessment back then was that an effort could be made to help them. Then it turns out it's all going to fail. There is going to be a crisis that really knocks the bottom out of everything and it is being reinforced and reinforced. Before the 2011 elections, we were then out to declare that it was a mistake that was made and we were ready to extend the benefit period again. And then I'm out of time, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120448	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120452	The Danish People's Party leader said this autumn that it is not the benefit recipients who have to pay for improvements elsewhere in the system. At the same time, the Danish People's Party estimated that 700 million should be added to the region. kr. to the benefit system. Now we have the agreement with caring days and graduation rates and new social criteria within an insurance system, and the 700 million. kr. has become 300 million. kr. Why was the Danish People's Party so cheap for sale? Or you might also say: How does it feel to stand on an autumn day in the cold and be dressed by the finance minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120530	I don't think the Minister of Finance thought we were cheap for sale.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120537	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120539	How many people are affected by using up their entitlement to cash benefits? You can have some different assessments of that. I guess the most optimistic are 7,000 a year, but it might as well end up at 12,000-13,000. Does the Danish People's Party have a pain limit before they say: this must be renegotiated?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120601	Now it is the case that in the three parties, the Left, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, we have agreed to insert a clause stating that if it turns out that things are going and do not meet the expectations there are, then it has to be taken up again so that you can find out how to solve the problems. It was a mistake that we did not get it into the old agreement, and we recognise it blankly, but there is a clause in that agreement here. And if it turns out that things are slipping away and not sticking together, then the parties will sit down and find a solution to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120631	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120634	I understand from the rapporteur that he believes that there has been no deterioration for anyone with the agreement that has been made now. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: what has been the motivation for introducing caring days and a lower graduation rate? Is it the rapporteur's view that it will create more jobs or that it will bring someone more quickly into work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120703	The motivation for this was that the benefit commission made a presentation, and the recommendation was that we should take the presentation, and a recommendation to take the presentation that the commission made also came from the LO. That is what we went into the negotiations with. So we have not followed all the recommendations. Among other things: the supplementary daily allowance has been shot to the corner, because the model they have presented for it is not really clear. But we have largely accepted what they have come up with, apart from the graduation rate, where we have been reproached that we will take care of those who have children rather than young people who do not have children.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120742	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120744	Well, I have to understand the answer that the rapporteur believes that it has no positive effect in terms of creating more jobs or getting people to work more quickly. Can the rapporteur then confirm that the only purpose has been to find a payer to finance the introduction of flexible recovery?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120807	I am quite convinced that the way in which benefits will be consumed in future will make more people want to take a job. Among other things: If you take a job for a while at a salary lower than the rate you get if you are at the high rate, it is not done so that you do not get a new calculation of your daily allowance. So alone it helps to make that there is a greater motivation for taking a different job than just what you might want most. So it has also become easier to take a job of shorter duration, you are rewarded for it, so there is certainly an incentive to take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120847	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120849	Thank you. The rapporteur said again: more people want to take up a job. We must therefore support the idea that the unemployed do not want to work. That's what was in it, too, because you can take a job. I think it's an obscenity. I think we have roughly equal experience in the labour market. I do not think that this is a proper way of talking to the unemployed, that they can just take a job or that they will then have a greater desire to take a job. But what I would like to ask you is that I believe that all people can see that this is a serious breach of the law when you quote the DFs: Where was the change in the benefit period? Two years' daily allowance is still gone. Where was the change in earnings, as Mr. Bøgsted has repeatedly blamed others for not getting implemented in the old period off? Where is the solution to the problem of supplementary benefits? Where is the solution for the up to 7,000 who are now falling out of the benefit system every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030120952	Thank you, President. I do not think we have ever said that we should have the two-year benefit period extended. I think that we have always said that this was the period it was supposed to be. There has then been the recovery that we have said that the period should be halved or that we should have a better system. And the commission has assessed and it is also what the LO has estimated that the system here is better than just halving the recovery period. We have accepted that. That's what we've been saying all along. That's it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was out to say during the election campaign that we should have a halving or a system that was better. And we have accepted that the Commission has believed that the system was better. We have not finished with the supplementary allowance. The solution that came from the Commission was not so useful immediately, so we must have a look at how we can get a system of supplementary daily allowances that is better and more up-to-date. It's not in place, and that's why Mr. Christian Juhl, of course, does not find anything about it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121057	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121059	Excuse me, the deal now made is better than halving the recovery period? Hand on your heart, sir. Bøgsted, is it better than halving the recovery period? Is it better than receiving supplementary cash benefits, for example? From a year ago? Then I didn't get it at all, sir. Bøgsted's answer in the countless debates we've had in this hall. How can one describe it as better when there are still 6,000-7,000 people who fall out of the system every year in the future because of this deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121134	Well, you can always discuss what's better. It is a question of what view you have of it, whether you want to go back to the old-fashioned or you want something new. We have accepted that the Commission has said that the kind of recovery they have put in is better. The LO has also said that it is better, and we have accepted that. As far as the supplementary allowance is concerned, I do not think I have said that it should go back to one year. We need to look at the supplementary cash benefits. It's not in place yet. It will come here in connection with the fact that we need to implement the legislation. Then we need to find out a system that is better than what the Commission has come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121220	Then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121223	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that security has now been created both in the long run, because the conciliation parties agree on this text, but also on the content. With regard to the over 10,000 who will continue to fall out of the benefit system and the 60 000 who have fallen out of the benefit system, i.e. those people who cannot take a job, I would like to know what the answer is to them. Because I think they're experiencing insecurity as much as before, now just in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121258	Well, in relation to many of those who have problems with the benefit system and cannot find a job and may not have the right qualifications, we must have looked at a system in which we ensure that those who lack qualifications are also trained to take the jobs that employers say there are. We also need to look at how we can help the unemployed, who have difficulty finding a job themselves, and how we can provide them with more direct help so that they can find a job. That's where the job centres might say: we'll help you find a job, and we have a job here that we know you can do. And then they have to direct a job. These are some of the measures you can do here to help these people. Whether it's 10,000 falls out, I don't know, because it was 7,000 who was on it from the commission it wasn't 10,000. But this will not enter into force until 1 January 2017, and how many will be in trouble in 2016, of course I have no answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121406	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121409	I think that if you sit out there in the living rooms and lose your daily allowance, you really don't care if it's 3, whether it's 1,000, or if it's 10,000. I do not think I really received an answer from the rapporteur on what concrete action will be taken for these people. For the proposals made by the rapporteur are, of course, things that cannot be disagreed with and that must, of course, be focused on. But what is crucial is to ensure that people have an income so that people can stay in their homes so that they can ensure proper conditions for their children and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121445	But what is most important in this regard is of course to help people find a job, and if someone has problems finding a job • that is quite a lot to do; we might as well admit that we should also look at how the job centres can help them find a job, how the cashiers can help them find a job so that they can get back into the system. That's the way we're going. I do not expect and do not believe that you should just sit down and say that they have to take care of themselves. No, we have to go out and get the job centres, we have to get the employers to work together and then find out what kind of labour the employers need and what qualifications the unemployed should have, and then give them the qualification, whether they are on unemployment benefits or they are on cash benefits or what they are on, so that they can enter the labour market by that means. That's what I want to work for, but if I can get through with it, time has to show.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121541	There's no one else who's called in as a questioner. I would like to thank the rapporteur and ask the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Hans Andersen, about coming up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030121600	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Enhedslisten, who has raised this question debate, which comes at a very good time. The Left believes that the 2010 unemployment benefit reform is basically right. Without the unemployment benefit reform and the other reforms that we carried out or took the initiative on at the end of the government, the public funds would need 47 billion. kr. a year. In addition, an analysis by the autumn 2014 Economic Council shows that the reform, once fully phased in, will reduce structural unemployment by 1⁄2 percentage points, and this in fact corresponds to an increase in employment by around 15,000 people in a neutral economic situation. Many people are talking about those who have exhausted the right to benefit. It is important to remember that almost nine out of ten today have jobs or other public services. There are therefore relatively few people who are completely without public support. I think that the best thing we can do for the unemployed is to support that there are good opportunities to get into jobs. For this reason, the government will pursue an economic policy that offers strong competitiveness and economic growth, thereby driving job creation forward. The Left therefore believes that the focus should be on creating more private jobs, so there are jobs for people. That is why the government has given priority to 2.4 billion. kr. to improve conditions for business. Among other things, the government will: abolish the advertising fee and NO x kr. the year, and the opportunities for enterprises to carry out the generational change need to be improved. Having said that, this does not mean that the benefit system that we have today is perfect. The best thing we can do for the unemployed is to support, as I said, that there are good opportunities for getting into jobs, that there are dynamics in the labour market, and that means, among other things, that we need an unemployment benefit system that supports the attractiveness of taking a short-term job. The government wants an unemployment benefit system that provides financial security for the members of the cashiers who are involuntarily affected by unemployment. At the same time, we prioritize that the new unemployment benefit system supports the availability of all unemployed people for the jobs that are available. It is also essential to increase labour market mobility and to take a short-term job becomes more attractive. The aim is that the benefit recipients should enter employment, not that they should be on public support for long periods not linked to the labour market. This is why last week the government and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats reached a broad agreement on daily allowances, which creates calm and stability in this area. For the government, it has been crucial to maintain a 2-year benefit period and to strengthen the incentive to take up work during the period. This is ensured by the possibility of a flexible recovery of up to one year's additional daily allowance. The government and the conciliation parties have made a long-term agreement on a new unemployment benefit system, based on the major preparatory work carried out by the benefit commission, which makes it more attractive to take a job, also for a short time, also for a lower salary, and where fewer people use up their entitlement to unemployment benefit. Thus, the agreement promotes both mobility and security in the Danish labour market for the benefit of both employees and employers. On behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left, I should like to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there has been a broad desire for an unemployment benefit system that provides financial security for members affected by involuntary unemployment, which supports fewer people to use up the right to benefit and which, at the same time, supports a flexible labour market with high employment and low structural unemployment, where all jobs can be filled. The Danish Parliament notes that on 22 October 2015 a broad majority of the Danish Parliament has entered into an agreement on a safer benefit system. The benefit period is maintained for two years with the possibility of a flexible recovery of up to one additional year's daily allowance. The agreement, among other things, makes it more attractive for the unemployed to take short-term employment during the benefit period and means that fewer people will use up the benefit entitlement annually. The Danish Parliament also notes that the parties to the agreement agree to jointly provide the outstanding funding of 300 million. kr. Annually from 2017 onwards. • V.3 - V.3 - V.3 -
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122046	The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122053	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am glad that the rapporteur put things into perspective by the fact that the rapporteur sketched out all these tax cuts that would be given to the business community in the real world of the shareholders but that only 300 million could be found. kr. to the unemployed. I believe that the rapporteur reached well over a billion. kr. in all the gifts you would give to shareholders if it could do so, but you could only find 300 million. kr. to the unemployed. So thank you for just sketching it out. My question is: is the Left satisfied with the fact that the Social Democrats have now signed that there should be only a two-year benefit period, that the recovery requirement should still be a whole year, that there has not been an adjustment to the sharp reduction in the supplementary allowance which the VKO parties carried out, and that it is mainly the unemployed themselves who are paying for the improvements that are also in the system? Is the rapporteur really happy and satisfied that the Socialists have now signed it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122157	Thank you for the good questions. The Left is very pleased that we could now make an agreement supported by a broad circle of parties in the Folketing. It creates tranquillity and stability. I have respect for the fact that a party such as the Socialists goes in and takes responsibility for the fact that we have a benefit system which can be trusted and which we also know what will look like tomorrow and the day after. I am, in effect, very pleased with that. I also believe that we and the Socialists agree that we have a two-year period of unemployment benefit. As a matter of fact, the work of the Disability Commission set up by the previous government was not a prerequisite for us to set it up. However, I think that the Socialists are also satisfied with the agreement that has been made. Otherwise they wouldn't have made it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122251	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122253	Thank you. Can I put it this way that the satisfaction lies in the fact that the Socialists have now signed a settlement which means that the Left has been given a right of veto on the question of whether, for example, there is a right of veto on the part of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament? should be a longer period of benefit, and should the requirements for the recovery of the benefit be changed, and should things be restored in relation to the supplementary allowance? Has the Left been given a right of veto there, so that if the Socialists are given the ambition to make some improvements, then they have to terminate the conciliation and try to obtain a different majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122328	Yes, it is customary that if you have regretted a settlement, you have to have it terminated before a forthcoming parliamentary election. But I really do not believe that, and I have listened to that today too, that the Socialists are doing it. As I am listening to it, the Socialists are satisfied with the agreement that has now been reached, and so are we. We were concerned about making a broad agreement, and we have now reached an agreement that will make the benefit system that we know even better, both in relation to the security of those who are involuntarily affected by unemployment, but also for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122404	Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122408	Now it is not so many months since we were in an election campaign, and there was the present Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen in a debate with the then Prime Minister, current Vice-President of the Folketing, on the daily allowances. Here Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: We are not going to tamper with the daily allowance level. To be absolutely sure, the interviewer, Poul Erik Shamelsen, asked: Is that a promise? Yes, that's it, Mr. Replicate. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. There is much talk that confidence in politicians is declining, and I think we can all be concerned about that. Does the rapporteur believe that this kind of breach of the Treaties will increase or lower the general belief that what politicians say before elections will also apply after elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122509	It would, of course, contribute to confidence in politicians if the rapporteur did not try to cast doubt on the fact that we are, of course, keeping the promises we are making. And if you only heard half of the debate today, that is Mr. Pelle Dragsted's question, yes, one could well be led to believe that it was a breach of promise. But there isn't. More money is added to the benefit system and the general benefit rate is not changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122536	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122538	[Sound emission]... I think the rapporteur can hear that too. No allowance rate was said, the level of benefit was said. I think that everyone who hears this debate agrees that, for example, the level of unemployment benefit. for graduates are lowered. And frankly, you can choose to call it carnage days. But the reality is that those people who do not get one of the small jobs, who are not just hanging on the trees, will also have a real reduction in their level of unemployment benefit, they call it just days of carnage. Then the rapporteur cannot, with all due respect to the general Danish population, recognise that when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen made that promise and said that there would be no tampering with the daily allowance level, so has that promise since been broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122621	I certainly can't. We are left with a situation where more money is being added to the benefit system. At the moment, I think the state is spending at the bottom of 10 billion. kr. A further 300 million will be added to this amount annually to support the benefit system. kr. This is certainly not a matter of cuts. The general allowance rate will not be affected in that agreement. So there is certainly no breach of promise here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122647	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122649	I'm gonna put myself in the same stream. For Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was clear enough but then there were also elections in relation to guaranteeing the population that no allowance level would be touched. Is it a breach of promise, or is it makeup when you make different levels afterwards? Well, then you just introduce a lowering of the graduation level. It has been undoubtedly lowered. Isn't that right? That's one. The second is that if you still talk about carnage days and expect most people to run into them, it will mean, in practice, for those out there, a reduction in their daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122732	Now there will be a lot of repetitions, but this reflects the questions that are being asked here. It is not, of course, a question of cutting unemployment benefits in general. 300 million will be added. kr. additional to the benefit system. The general allowance rate, which we are all familiar with, and which is the one we are talking about when the debate is going on, is not going to change. Then it is true that the graduation rate is being changed in this agreement, but I would like to stand by that. I would like to stand by the fact that we are tampering with an insurance against unemployment, which can be obtained at the moment by joining before you have finished your studies and which you can then go on before you have had a job, by the way. I'd like to stand by that, yes. Compared to Karen's day, it can be avoided by taking shorter-term jobs during the benefit period itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122831	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122832	Well, I have no doubt for a moment that sir... Hans Andersen will stand by the settlement that the Left has entered into. Fortunately, the rapporteur also helped to stand by the fact that we have broken a bell-clean promise that the rate would not be tampered with, because the rapporteur himself said that it has been tampered with so well, but that it was the graduation rate. But it is also part of our benefit system. So in this sense, I would like to say that I respect both the fact that you stand by the agreements that you enter into as a party, but also the fact that the rapporteur is actually saying that all right, that was a breach of what we promised earlier. I would like to get a quick line on how the Left feels about introducing caring time criteria into an insurance system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122916	Now there is an agreement that sets down the graduation rate for those who are not parents, and those who are parents get a little more in the graduation rate. We have no problem with that in the Left. It is a little more expensive to be a provider than not to be a provider, so we do not have any problems with the distinction we have made in the benefit system as far as the graduation rate is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122945	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030122949	Over the last few years before the election campaign, the Left made a lot of sense in emphasising how important it was that fewer people in Denmark were on transfer income, that more people entered the labour market, and that we increased wealth in Denmark. There was a lot of talk about this, and virtually the whole Left election campaign was organized with it as a theme. Now we are making an unemployment benefit reform which reduces employment. And then I know that the rapporteur will say: yes, yes, but it does support the unemployment benefit reform that was made in 2010. However, the reform was made, it stood firm and the increase in employment in isolation by 15 000 people. What you're doing now is making an agreement that's pulling in the wrong direction. Because of this agreement, there will always be 840 more on cash benefits than if you hadn't made it. How does this relate to the fact that the Left has emphasised the importance of increasing employment significantly in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123058	We will continue to make reforms and agreements that can increase employment and increase growth. In this situation, there was no longer a majority behind the previous unemployment benefit reform of 2010. So the starting point might also be that the opportunity for the improvement we made back 2010, which just increased employment by up to 15,000, is not there at all. Now we've made an allowance agreement that reduces it slightly, but there's still a plus of 14,000 people gone. So I just think that this is a really good agreement, which, like, underlines that what we did in 2010 was the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123139	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123141	Yeah, what you did in 2010 was right. I fully agree with that. It just doesn't change the fact that you're now doing something that's pulling in the opposite direction. And we in the Liberal Alliance think that's too bad. But can the Left not, as it were, go further: where else should employment be increased? And what exactly is the Left's ambition in this area? How much should employment increase? What does the Left have of ambition? Because if an unemployment benefit reform is not to increase employment, what is the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123213	I look forward to a job reform in cooperation with the Danish Parliament's parties. We have taken the first steps towards creating a cash aid ceiling, also with the Liberal Alliance. But it must be accompanied by the fact that in the spring we will have the tax on labour reduced, and in particular the tax on those who have the lowest wage incomes, so that it is always worthwhile to work. This will also help to increase employment. And I look forward to having talks with the Liberal Alliance about that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123243	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123245	Thank you. I saw the other day that the rapporteur, on the question of who benefited most from this conciliation, simply replied with a grin. It was more telling than if he had used some words at least to me. I will not ask who he thinks has made the most of the Social Democrats or the Left. I just want to say that we have seen that we have the world's best business climate. At least we are within the three best countries in the world when it comes to business. Yet the Left will pour more money into business. I just mean, does tax relief provide more jobs? No. Does lower unemployment benefit provide more jobs? No. With the latter, you just make it harder and more uncomfortable for people. I would just like to ask: do the 6 000 to 7 000 people who fall out of the benefit system come closer to the labour market or further away from the labour market? Is it easier for them, when they have lost unemployment benefit, to get back into the labour market, or is it harder?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123352	Here, of course, we basically disagree on what should create growth and jobs. We are concerned about improving the business environment in Denmark. Enhedslisten almost thinks it's too good, that's what I hear is being said. So we're gonna keep going that way. In other words, we want to increase growth and hence the number of jobs in Denmark, and this can help those people who risk falling out of the benefit system and moving to another form of benefit to become self-supporting. And that is best, because the more jobs there are, the better we help those concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123430	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123432	That is true, but the government does not put you in a position to give money to business, but industry cannot generate more jobs if there is no demand. After all, it is the demand that needs to be stimulated. Everyone who has read Keynes and other economists who know about crises knows that. There is no point in saying that we are giving business more money. They have billions accumulated in the banks at the moment. It does not create a single place of work and the unemployed move further away from the labour market. You think that the opposite, and I just don't understand the logic of it. Then I also agree that this is a cut: if it is not cuts, a lower rate of graduating costs an unemployed person up to 22,500 DKK. and the waiting days cost up to 2,500 DKK. a year, then what is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123522	After all, we are creating good framework conditions in Denmark so that our companies can flourish. It creates jobs. This creates the best conditions for the unemployed affected by involuntary unemployment to return to work. Surely this is not about making it more difficult for our companies to create growth. It's all about making things better and easier. We have a large number of proposals in our financial legislation to make it easier to operate, so that our companies have a better competitiveness compared to the companies they compete with around the world. After all, it is not just about Denmark and about marketing the products in Denmark. They must also be able to sell them to others around the world. And it will help to improve conditions, including for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123606	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123608	Thank you. Now I'm a little new in this, and I'm gonna have to spell things out a little bit, and I'm gonna have to separate shit from cinnamon. The rapporteur acknowledges that the graduation rate has been cut and that carnage has been introduced, which means a reduction in the amount of benefit you receive. For graduates, this means quite specifically that in one year, if they have not found a job, they lose 22,500 DKK. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen went out in the election campaign and said that there would be no cuts in the rates. Could the rapporteur please explain to me what it is like not to cut the rates when 22,500 kroner has been cut? In the graduation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123653	The discussion was about the daily allowance and the daily allowance system, and it was about the daily allowance rate. There will be no cut in the daily allowance rate. The general allowance rate will not be changed. We also add more funds to the benefit system, so that the benefits are not generally cut. That's the answer, isn't it? But I understand that Enhedslisten is not happy with that. That's fair enough. But that does not change what is left of it, namely that a good agreement has been made on the benefit system. It creates both greater security for those who are involuntarily affected by unemployment, but it also creates calm about the benefit system in general. And, in a way, it helps to increase growth and create more jobs in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123734	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123735	Now I understand that the average age in this parliament is a little higher than my age, but it is not so long ago that I received graduation allowance. And if I were in the situation that I had just graduated, I would clearly have seen it as a deterioration if I had received 22,500 kroner. less a year, if I was so unlucky not to be able to get a job. Well, as I see it here, it's just a clear breach of promise. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123811	I certainly am not. However, I understand from the Enhedslisten that the fact that there have been a number of improvements in the benefit system in relation to recovery and a longer period of unemployment benefit is obviously not an improvement. One would have liked to be out of it if one had only been able to keep the present graduating rate. That is where we have assessed it differently. We have estimated that if you make these improvements in the benefit system, you can change the graduation rate. That is the conclusion I draw.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123846	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030123848	The rapporteur and, of course, the conciliation parties in general say that we now have a good benefit system, a robust, a future-proof benefit system, one must understand. How can one come to the conclusion that one of the major problems with the unemployment benefit system following the unemployment benefit reform in 2010 is that in the region of 10,000 or more people fall out? At the moment, it is 14,000 who fall out of the benefit system. The calculation was then that it would be 2,000 that would fall out, but it became much, much more. To that answer, as Mr. Finn Sørensen has received from the Minister for Employment only yesterday, there is something that suggests that the figure can be much, much larger. When the huge problem that caused all this tumult about our unemployment benefit system, namely that people fall into numbers, is not solved, how can one say that it is a good and robust and future-proof system that has been put together here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124002	I certainly think we have reached a good agreement that ensures an even better benefit system. The benefit period remains 2 years. When you are completely new, you need 1 year of work to get into the benefit system. I think that is fair enough, and when you are in the benefit system, you can obtain up to three years' benefit if you work for shorter periods while you are unemployed. I think that is a clear improvement. Then there will always be some who, at some point, can no longer receive cash benefits, but then they can get a number of other benefits if they do not become self-employed. This must be the case, otherwise we would have had a system like that which one must understand Enhedslisten wants to go back to where one can go 7 and 10 and 12 years in the benefit system. I don't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124055	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124057	This is, of course, the problem that has accelerated since we received the unemployment benefit reform in 2010, and the problem has not been solved, judging from the answers that have now been given to the question. So it will continue to be present, and also the insecurity it creates, by people falling out. And since the temporary arrangements are also ending now, this means that people are falling into ordinary cash benefits where people are being set off. This means that a great many of the people who fall out must go from house to home because they are set off against spouse and fortune, and what do I know? This problem does not solve the unemployment benefit system, so why call it robust and future-proof?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124140	I certainly believe that we have made an allowance agreement which, with the arrangements that can now be applied in the future, is both more robust and creates greater security. There is also now an incentive to take a job of shorter duration, it can provide additional periods of unemployment benefit, and I think that is a very sensible thing to do. There will always be some who, at some point, if they fail to get a job, fall out of the benefit system. Otherwise, the questioner might as well suggest that we did some sort of citizen's salary, so that, whether you get a job or not, you have to have a transfer income. That proposal does not therefore support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124219	There are no more speakers, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, about coming up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124231	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten for raising this debate. Denmark is a great country in many areas, but we have some challenges. Among other things, the model we have today is not capable of generating economic growth and prosperity in relation to other countries. We have had the fourth lowest economic growth of the 34 OECD countries in the last 20 years, and we have the prospect of the sixth lowest economic growth towards 2030. The solution to this challenge is that more people are being moved from transfer income into the labour market. It is simply a prerequisite for Denmark to exploit the wealth potential that we have. We have far more on transfer income in Denmark at working age than in the highly developed welfare societies around us. Therefore, reforms have also been made in Denmark over the last 20 years, where attempts have been made to cut away some of the pork that was on the welfare state. Unemployment benefit reforms, cash benefits reforms, early retirement reforms have all been made in recognition of the fact that too many people in Denmark were outside the labour market and that this was a problem for our prosperity. But those problems still exist. We therefore find it a pity that we do not show the political courage, the political responsibility that is necessary in the situation in Denmark, and we are doing an unemployment benefit reform which would have contributed further to increasing employment in Denmark. The reform adopted by the majority of SOV does not do so. It reduces employment in Denmark, and this is regrettable because there are some low-hanging fruits in the benefit system that could have been addressed to what would have increased employment. Let me mention three things. We are the only country where you can go straight from education into the benefit system without having paid for insurance. You just have to sign in. After receiving tax-financed training and the world's highest SU, you can enter unemployment insurance, which is unemployment insurance against loss of earnings, without having had a wage income. We think that should have been addressed. We believe that the graduation rate should be completely removed; it does not exist in other countries. This would have increased employment by 6 000 and saved the state 3 billion. kr., which could have been spent on far more sensible things. As I said, there is no graduation rate in any of the countries with which we surround ourselves. They are all highly developed welfare societies where young people do as well as they do in Denmark. The level of compensation in the benefit system should also have been addressed. For the vast majority of people, it is worthwhile to work without a doubt. But at the bottom of the benefit system there are major incentive problems, and it also turns out that when you look at that group of people, you see that their employment rate is much lower than that of others. So you should have addressed that challenge. The problem is that we in Denmark have said from a political point of view that it may well be that the social partners sit down and make some agreements and agreements, but we in the Danish Parliament do not give a damn about that. We say that you can get as much on unemployment benefits as you can by taking a job at the minimum wage. We find this problematic, and this should have been addressed, so that it would also be worth taking work at the minimum wage for collective agreements. And then we should have addressed the problem that today the cashiers have no financial incentive for their members to be available for the labour market. They should be part of the co-financing of the payment of the daily allowance. After all, reimbursement reforms have been made in the municipalities so that the municipalities receive reduced reimbursement over the year, and this is in order to encourage municipalities to always have the most effective response to the unemployed and to help them back into the labour market. That incentive does not have the cashiers, and that should also have been addressed. It is like the three low-hanging fruits of the benefit system that should have been addressed, because it had ensured higher employment and resulted in 10,000 more people working at all times instead of being on unemployment benefits. It had made Denmark a richer and more prosperous country. We find it regrettable that the political courage was not present in the Folketing and that this was more about the internal competition between the Left, the Social Democratic Party and the DF, about closing this agreement and calming the discussion instead of discussing how Denmark will become a more prosperous and rich country. On behalf of the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I should like to make the following points: proposals for the adoption of the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party are puzzled that the parties to the agreement are satisfied with having reached an agreement on daily allowances which reduces employment in Denmark. Denmark has had the fourth lowest economic growth in the OECD in the last 20 years, and we have the prospect of only the sixth lowest growth towards 2030. The person responsible had been to make an agreement which had helped to increase employment and thus prosperity in Denmark. • V 5. • V 5) • V 5) Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124833	The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. I give the floor to Mr Van der Klaauw to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124840	Thank you. This isn't the first time, sir. Joachim B. Olsen and I have the opportunity to discuss the labour market and unemployment benefits, and it's always nice. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is what he calls pork and what he calls unnecessary compensation and so on. During this week the latest security survey was published from TrygFonden, which they have been making since 2004, and it was read that the Danes, especially those who are a little older and on the edge of the labour market, feel more insecure than ever before. It has thus been an upward curve or downward one should actually say. However, more and more people have at least felt insecure, basically since the unemployment benefit reform was adopted in 2010. Does the rapporteur recognise that 1) there is a link between the increased insecurity of the Danish population and the unemployment benefit reform that was made in 2010 and 2) the increased insecurity, which several economists highlight, thus also affects and helps to generate the low consumer confidence that we unfortunately have at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030124949	I have not read the study in question, and therefore I cannot know whether that study concludes that there is a causality between what should be an increased insecurity, and then specifically this benefit reform. However, what I know above all is that what creates security in a society, at least in the long run, is that it is a rich and prosperous society in which the public has the potential to consume, has the opportunity to buy the latest technology for hospitals when the citizens are being treated, has the opportunity to provide the best education for the children, and where the citizens are also rich and prosperous. For it is one of the prerequisites for having good and safe lives, and it has to be said that we are challenged in terms of generating wealth in Denmark. These are the two things you have to weigh up against each other. Well, that's what Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen calls security in the short lane, and so also what is called security in the long lane. And it is therefore a question of how prosperous a society we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125058	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125059	I am already in favour of the rapporteur swearing absolutely to the idea that, if we increase the supply of work uncritically, more jobs will automatically be generated for that reason. However, the component that the rapporteur lacks, which in reality is what has helped to create all our wealth and make many of our businesses competitive, is precisely that the very same security in the labour market should one go and lose one's job. In fact, it also helps employees to show a high degree of flexibility at the same time. It is an advantage for the companies that they can easily hire and guys, and it is a competitive advantage for Danish companies compared to all sorts of other companies. Does not the rapporteur also think that this is a very, very important component in creating precisely the wealth and wealth that we all agree we should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125150	Yes, absolutely. Flexibility in the labour market is a great advantage both for employers and indeed for employees themselves. It is often interpreted as if flexibility in the labour market is only an advantage for employers. That is just as much an advantage for employees. That is why it would also be quite foolish for employees' organisations to move towards reducing that flexibility. I just have to say that the changes made to the benefit system, for example. The fact that you went from a four-year period to a two-year period has nothing to do with flexibility, nothing at all. There are countries in the world that have a greater degree of flexibility in the labour market than Denmark and that have not at all as generous a benefit system as we have in Denmark. Denmark has still, overall, seen the probably most generous and generous benefit system in the world. In our view, there is also room for changes in the system that will help to increase prosperity while at the same time ensuring a proper, very good insurance scheme for employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125258	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125300	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks of political courage, and it is always very interesting to have the political courage to take the money from some others. If, in the next parliamentary elections, I or the rapporteur are kicked out of the electorate or, incidentally, choose not to stand for election, then in the next two years we can raise an after-election which constitutes the full salary. It is, in total, about 1.2 million. kr. over the two years. What is the rapporteur's incentive to take up a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125340	It's extremely small. That is why I also believe that that system should be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125345	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125347	Could it then not be a good idea to start there? I would think that was political courage. I would like to ask another question. Let us imagine a human being, for example. has worked all his life and has paid for my education and for your education over the tax system and that becomes vacant because there are not enough jobs, and goes out after two years, as is happening now for hundreds a week, and for example. is forced to sell a colonial garden house or a cottage for which the person has been spinning and saving throughout his life. Is that fair, sir? rapporteur? Is it reasonable that our current security system brings people who have done everything they could to get a job into that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125431	I'll remind you, sir. Pelle Dragsted says it's been paid for my training and paid for the rapporteur's training. And this is the third time, sir. Pelle Dragsted must be reminded of how we address each other here in the Assembly Hall. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125446	I think there are a great many unfairnesses for the people concerned, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentions, in the way we have arranged ourselves in Denmark. From my point of view, the injustice lies in the fact that we have a model in which we pay in through high taxes and where politicians then distribute the money, regardless of who has contributed and who has not contributed. Therefore, there are some people in Denmark who, after working their entire lives and paying taxes, will need the system they have paid in to, and then they cannot always get help. I would like to see a move in the direction of greater coherence between what you paid in and what you could actually get.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125535	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125537	Thank you. We have been a little concerned about mobility and what role it actually plays in the benefit system. In my optics, there is no doubt that the unemployment benefit system is the world's best business support system, because it guarantees the mobility, security of employees and is part of the whole core of the Danish labour market model. This is also one of the reasons that has been put forward by the Minister for Employment and Social Security in relation to the new unemployment benefit scheme that has been agreed. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur's position that the level of compensation should be reduced. Because we have also discussed in the past that if you reduce the level of compensation, you are pushing both mobility, but also the level of pay in the labour market. In other words, how far should it go from the rapporteur's perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125629	I think that the level of compensation should be 80%, so that at most 80% can be achieved. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. And when I say 80%, it is because we know that the previous government has also been thoroughly elucidated that when you can get more than 80%. In the case of the labour force, the rate of employment declines quite significantly for those groups. In other words, you no longer have a system of mobility, but then you have a system that maintains people on public services, and that is not appropriate, and that is the way in which the benefit system works. It provides mobility for the large groups, but there are also groups in the benefit system for which it does not provide mobility and where it actually reduces mobility, and that is not appropriate. We agree that mobility is a good thing, but that mobility is not in the bottom of the labour market, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125730	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125732	Then I would like to mention a slightly different element that has been cut over the same reading. It is no secret that it has been documented both by the Economic Council, the CEPOS and others, which I assume the rapporteur is also listening to that when you reduce the level of compensation or benefits, you are also pushing the wage level, and we have had a discussion about whether it is worthwhile to work. So I shall just have the rapporteur explain to me that, now that you are lowering the benefits over a period of time, and this is also one of the wishes, what kind of response is the rapporteur thinking there is to wage formation and therefore also to the incentive to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125814	I would say that I would be quite surprised if the trade union movement, for example, agreed to lower the minimum wage in Denmark. It may be that Mr. Jeppe Bruus has a different view of it. But that is what it would require, that is to say, that the trade union movement agreed to lower wages. I don't think they will. It can keep minimum wage quiet when you lower the level of compensation, that is true. And I think that is a good thing, because it then allows some more people to come in and become part of the working community, which I can only believe is important to the Socialists that people are part of. And that's one of the dark sides of the way we've arranged ourselves, that is, that really, a lot of people in Denmark • more than in other highly developed welfare societies • are not part of that community.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125907	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030125910	Thank you. There are two things I would like to comment on. One is that I welcome the fact that, after four years of intensive work, we have succeeded in convincing the rapporteur that for most people in Denmark work is worthwhile. I have put a big cross on the calendar today to ensure that it is now on the board of the rapporteur. The rapporteur then says: but at the bottom there is a problem. Now we are going to take the next four years and use them to convince the rapporteur that whatever problem is at the bottom of the agenda it is social policy that we are talking about people are obliged to cooperate, that is, they are available to the labour market if they get their benefits. We need to get that straight. Then there's the matter of causality. I do not know whether the rapporteur does not agree that if you take money from people, you increase insecurity and that it is not necessarily the case that because a society gets richer, all people will have a more secure life. Does the rapporteur really believe that all people are better off by having a better economy in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130016	That's where I'm gonna have to disappoint sir. Christian Juhl. Sir. Christian Juhl hasn't convinced me of anything. I have never claimed that working in Denmark could not pay for all people. It would be nonsense to say so. Of course it can, but there are groups, large groups, in the labour market which have what is called a small incentive to be in employment. And when you look at the employment rate of those groups, you can see that it is just significantly lower than in other groups. That's about it. 300,000 Danes, who have what they call a small incentive to be in employment, and thus their employment rate is lower than that of others. Well, then, sir. Christian Juhl excuse me, but I did not actually reach the last part of his question. I would like to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130057	Christian Juhl, the second time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130059	Thank you. But we'll take that another day. It is about whether all people will be more secure when a society becomes richer. There was something about causality, it's probably something from college, I don't know. But at any rate, if you use common sense, it is the case that if the poorest people in the country do not get that wealth, then it is clear that an insecurity can then be created. The second is two errors which I would like to correct with the rapporteur. One is with regard to the fact that cashiers should co-finance the daily allowance. Well, what the hell is going on in the Liberal Alliance? Today, we ourselves, as cashiers, finance the daily allowance during the good periods, and the state helps a little in the bad times when there is high unemployment. The rapporteur then says that 80% should be paid. of the daily allowance. Is the rapporteur not aware that this will be a massive turnaround, most of whom today receive between 40 and 50 per cent?? That's as much as 65 percent. for a few low-paid but between 40% and 50%. You get as compensation in cash benefits. Has this been ignored by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130204	It is, of course, when you take the whole group of employees and look at their average level of compensation. So it is true that it is lower, but at the bottom of the wage formation it is too many over 80, and it is even over 90, and indeed, it is correct. We'll have to talk about that another day, but I can document that. Then there's this whole "A" thing at the end. It is the case that the cashiers receive some money from the quotas, but pass them all on to the state. We would like them to keep some of that money and to help finance it themselves, so that if they were better to get people into work, they could keep some money, and then they could, for example, keep some money. put the quota down. Then I would just like to say at the very end that what happens when you make some reforms, even when you reduce some benefits, is that more people enter the labour market. It may be that it creates some insecurity in the short term, but what it does is that people get higher income and higher income in the long term, and it creates a better long-term security. And we think it is very, very important to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130322	I should just like to point out, for the record, that the applause of the House is not recorded. That is why we are being asked to keep to who has the floor. And the next person to speak is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130336	Thank you. Now I am simply asking the rapporteur to open his heart and say quite frankly what the rapporteur is thinking. Because when we look at this benefit settlement, does the rapporteur think that the daily allowance settlement, which we have just landed, is too red, and is the rapporteur disappointed by the direction in which the bourgeois government has gone in terms of the daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130404	Well, I haven't concealed the fact that I'm disappointed in that. I think that the right thing for the Socialists too would have been to take responsibility here and say: we are now making a reform which actually increases employment in Denmark. It would have been the right thing to do, I think. The Socialists should also have contributed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130425	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130428	So if I have to ask in another way: of the three conciliation parties that are behind the settlement, who has got the most out of that settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130442	Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130445	The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030130503	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for taking the initiative on this question. It is important that we focus on what is now going to be a form of post-treatment of the entire benefit agreement. As we have already witnessed here today, a large part of the debate has been about who is to finance what and how, etc. And, of course, I recognise that this discussion is really important and very real, and I also sign it for us to take that debate. However, I would like to use my speech here today to take a slightly different approach to the debate. For me, and in the alternative, there is, in particular, a debate that we very much miss, and that is the fundamental discussion about the basis on which we want to build the benefit system. In my optics, for 15 months we have had an historic opportunity to talk about this, and the board has in principle been completely clean while we have waited for the work of the Commission. But during that period the visions have been paused, and I am therefore sorry that only record-time 4 days passed before we had an agreement in place. And in those days, I did not hear the parties to the agreement relate to the basic set of values or the human vision, or what we shall call what is the basis of the whole system. With it in the eyes of the goose • new benefit system, my optics has built new initiatives on the basic failure that the unemployed have no ambition, desire or drive to want and be able to do so on their own initiative. In my view, it is so simplistic and so wrong that it can only lead to bad political decisions and that is why it annoys me very much that that discussion was never taken. We can, for example. Take the days of carnage. They are, of course, tried to be the great innovation, but if we stick to one thing, that idea is based on exactly the same basic premise as before, namely that the unemployed must be pressured and stressed before they want to do anything themselves. If they haven't gotten into a job, it's because they're lazy. Unfortunately, I think that the benefit agreement has once again emphasised that distrust and distrust of citizens have become completely dominant in political thinking. Let me highlight a quote from the Daily Money Commission press conference where Jon Kvist presented the behavioral economic rationale behind the Karendays: "You only need to give a little pouf. Losing something is experienced very violently for people. If you think for a moment about the sentence and the rationale behind that sentence, it means that if it works, then we do it. And what I find disturbing here is that no one was stunned by that idea before buying the whole package from the Commission. A society in which the relationship between the citizen and the state is linked to the violent experience of losses, as in the quotation, will undoubtedly lead to a deterioration of confidence in us politicians and the system. We must take that seriously, I think. For me, it is obvious that mistrust breeds mistrust and, in fact, also discouragement. If it were up to us in the Alternative, we would have liked to think the system completely over and, in particular, turn the employment effort on its head. Today we have a hugely expensive and inefficient employment system. I propose that all the unnecessary and destructive controls that simply destroy and demotivate people should be abolished and that money and human resources should be set free in a system based on trust and support for the individual's own initiative. We must have so much more confidence, trust and goodwill into the benefit system. In the field of employment there is a project that we follow closely in the Alternative, and it is a project that runs in Aarhus Municipality. Here, on an experimental basis, they will make $50,000. available to the longterm unemployed, which they can use to remove obstacles to work. This shows confidence in the individual's driving force, and ownership lies with the individual. It's really very simple. As humans, we are built up and motivated by feeling ownership of what we do. It is therefore also obvious that such a model creates much greater legitimacy and confidence in the system. We simply need to look at what kind of society we want in the future and then build up our legislation and systems on the values and human vision that point in that direction. The parties to the agreement behind the cash benefits settlement in my optics have missed a historic opportunity for this, and I am, of course, annoyed. In conclusion, I should like to remind you that it is also important to give due praise when there is a chance. And that is why I would also like to commend the Commission and the parties to the agreement for having created a good and flexible profit model. It must of course be possible to take small jobs while you are on unemployment benefits, and that part has certainly improved with the new system, so I would also like to sign for that here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131002	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131010	What should the daily allowance rate be according to Enhedslisten? No, I'm sorry. Sometimes it's hard to tell the difference. Of course, I meant the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131023	Then we had that corrected. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131028	We think that the benefit rate that has been so far is reasonable, so we have no comment on it. But we think it's wrong to put it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131039	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131041	But if it doesn't matter to people's willingness to work, what the daily allowance rate is, why won't Enhedslisten set it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131057	Now it is still the alternative rapporteur who speaks Olsen Sorry!). Yes, sir. Joachim B. Olsen noticed. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131100	Is this the time for me to say "New Alliance"? I am not saying that financial incentives are not part of the solution. I'm just saying that financial incentives and punishment are always the only thing you point to. We believe this in the alternative is simply a wrong way to go. Other incentives are also needed and, above all, it is insanely important to build ownership for the individual. You cannot create such systems here that work if there is no ownership for the individual, so that the individual is involved. That is also why we want a much, much more individual focus on what it is that the individual has needs and opportunities and desires etc. in terms of being able to take responsibility for, of course, helping to find your own job.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131144	We thank the rapporteur. There is no further request for short comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131155	Thank you for the floor, President. The benefit saga, you might call it, has been long. It hasn't always been even pretty either. But the crucial thing for us in the Radical Left is not the process. That is, we think, the good result that has been achieved with this new cash allowance agreement. I think that we will have a sensible and responsible and also a dignified end to the unemployment benefit turbulence of recent years. The debate continues, of course it does, and so must it. It's fine. But now we have a broad agreement based on a thorough analysis by the Commission, and the Radical Left is pleased about that. When the reform was conceived, and it became a late night hour in the Ministry of Finance five years ago, we chose to support the agreement. But we warned both the Prime Minister and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that the phase-in was too brutal, and the conciliation circle then too narrow. Unfortunately, this was not listened to, and we have then spent several years and millions of dollars, as the Socialist rapporteur has also explained. But basically we were and are actually convinced that the shortening of the benefit period from 4 to 2 years and the doubling of the recovery requirement is a good and fair solution that helps to strengthen the Danish economy. Now we will also have a new and more modern benefit system, which will ensure that no one will see that they are placed at a disadvantage if they accept a short-term job on the contrary. We have praised that, and I also heard the rapporteur of the alternative. I am pleased about that, and we have also asked for it with many others. So in future, 1 additional day's work during the benefit period will extend the entitlement to benefit by 2 days at the end of the ordinary 2-year benefit period. We are really, really happy about that, and we are also pleased that it did not end up with a halving of the recovery requirement, because it would have helped very few people and, incidentally, it is very expensive. In my view, this was only because the Commission delivered a bid which all parties and, above all, the trade union movement found much better. Unlike the Prime Minister and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who reformed the daily allowance over a quick pork roast a late night hour, insists on reforming on the basis of a thorough and professionally sound commission work in which both employees and employers and experts have participated. I think that the contrast to the work in 2010 is quite great. After all, the Commission has clearly indicated ways of improving the situation, without having to pay more. I think this is an excellent starting point for making a good benefit system even better, and I suppose that is why we managed so quickly to close a broad political agreement on one of the most sensitive issues in Danish politics over the last five years. So I really think that this model is also a model for follow-up. I would like to point out here that there is one thing that remains to be said: we need to find an unemployment benefit solution for entrepreneurs, freelancers and self-employed people. The Commission did not reach that, and that is something we will be holding onto in the Radical Left. We must work to make Denmark a world-class entrepreneurial nation, and this also includes the fact that we can offer skilled and often quite brave entrepreneurs the same security as that enjoyed by employees today. We will continue to work on that. I hope so too many others will join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131552	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131600	Thank you. At the end of the day, I can only say that we are concerned about that too. It is a problem that entrepreneurs, freelancers and others do not have the social security that they should have. But that brings me to the next question. For now the rapporteur says that a period has been set and, unfortunately, that is probably right. But that sentence is set in a way that means that in the years to come we will also see thousands and thousands of people falling out of the benefit system. And a great many of them will fall out because the temporary arrangements which Enhedslisten has secured over the last four years have, moreover, disappeared with opposition from the rapporteur's party. They will fall to no support, and if they are to have a support, they must be ready to sell their homes, cottages and cars. Is it a reasonable period to set for the Danish employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131656	We think that we have got a very good benefit solution. We also think that the reform on which it is based was a very good and fair solution to now use a title that can well now be used in a different context. I would also like to raise a question about the temporary arrangements. In the last parliamentary term, like the Enhedslisten, we helped to vote in favour of all the proposals for improved phasing-in, because we felt that the phasing-in of the 2010 reform was far too steep. But yes, I think we will have a fair settlement. Fortunately, many of those who use up the right to benefit fall because it is true that there will continue to be people who make it look like a job while others fall into training. Others will again use up their benefit rights, and there we have fortunately, and I and hopefully also Enhedslisten's rapporteur will work hard to ensure that we continue to have a good social safety net in Denmark. Where we have to take action is in the employment system, so that even less people will be using up their benefit rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131811	Sir. Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131814	We don't have a good social safety net in Denmark anymore. I'm afraid we haven't. We have sick people being treated like shit. We no longer have a good social safety net in Denmark, and when we shorten the daily allowance period, and when we do not solve that problem, far more people will end up on no support. According to the A-boxes Samvirke there is just 120, or it was 160, a week that falls out and gets 0 kroner. The rapporteur says that this is a good agreement and that it is fair. But why is it fair that people who have worked their entire lives, paid their taxes and paid their cash contributions should end up in a situation where they have to move away from their homes, because Denmark, for example, has to pay their taxes. are affected by a slightly longer economic recession, as we have seen in recent years when there are not jobs for everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131858	This is a good, old and thorough disagreement between the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left. I think it is fair that there is an insurance scheme to which we are also contributing a lot of public money and that it lasts for two years and that we then have a social safety net. I would like to challenge the rapporteur's claim that nothing is being done. After all, it is alone if you have the opportunity to be supported or otherwise find support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131931	There is an extra who has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030131938	I would like to hear it again: an insurance scheme. In 2010, the rapporteur helped halve the insurance we had. First, the benefit period was halved, and second, the period for people to work to reclaim cash benefits doubled. But no discount was given at all. We had to pay the same in our cashier to get a product that was only a quarter of what we got before. This corresponds to the fact that a rock card for Copenhagen city buses cost 100 DKK. for ten clips, and if afterwards there were only three clips left, the price was still 100 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132023	It's not like it's a private insurance scheme. It is an insurance scheme to cover people between jobs, supplemented by taxpayers' dollars. We therefore believe that a two-year benefit period is a fair length. We are very pleased with the improvements that have now been adopted in terms of recovery, so that it is also worth taking short appointments, where, as I acknowledge, they were punished or at least not compensated for taking short appointments in order to be able to re-earn their daily allowance. That's why I'm really excited about this, and that's what I understand from the trade union movement that they're • that this is a better solution than any of those who have been there in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132108	Sir. Christian Juhl for his second comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132111	Now I wasn't the one who called it an insurance policy. It was the rapporteur himself. And I've never seen an insurance scheme switch to just a quarter, and then I had to pay the same thing never. At present it is the workers themselves in Denmark who pay by far the majority of the daily allowance insurance. They pay it all during periods of recession, and they pay the major part of the boom. The state pays a small amount. That's really true. Then I am really, really sorry that once again it is brought to squares that it can answer. It can be for all unemployed people to take a job, and we even have a duty to do so. You have to be available to get your services. That suspicion is not nice for a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132155	I don't think I suspected. I have just said that in the past there was almost a penalty for taking short-term employment, because then you could not reclaim your daily allowance. I fully agree with the rapporteur that the suspicion of people who have lost their daily allowance or their jobs cannot really be used for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132214	No one else has wanted short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132233	Big fuss for nothing, that's the sentence I want to start with. I would, of course, like to acknowledge the improvements contained in the proposal. There is a flexible recovery which I think is a step in the right direction. There will also be an opportunity for some to have a higher rate of unemployment benefit, but overall I would like to say a great deal of fuss about nothing, because is this conciliation going to solve the problems of the thousands who will continue to fall out? No. Will this settlement solve the problems for those we call the atypical employees, those that LO and the University of Southern Denmark have calculated to be approx. 20% of those employed in the labour market, i.e. those partly employed, partly selfemployed with freelance jobs, etc.? No, it doesn't solve their challenges. Does this resolve the restrictions on supplementary benefits? No. Does conciliation solve the challenges in the labour market where a more secure benefit system is needed? No. But does conciliation solve a temporary problem for individual parties at Christiansborg? Yes, it does. And that is how we differ in our priorities. I see this settlement a little like the expression that old sailors used in the past. When you got an old rusty shoot in, it was sometimes the case that it had to have a quick overpaint so it could look a little smart. But inside the new paint, rust continued to pierce the ship. 3,000 people lost the job last year and 750,000 people changed jobs. This shows precisely that Denmark's dynamic economy is based on a flexible labour market. But the basis for flexibility must be security, and I think that we are spanning the bow too hard in these years, too hard understood in that the emphasis is increasingly being placed on flexibility, and it is well noticed in a situation where we have seen a completely new study from Aalborg University that shows that 50 per cent. the members of the LO consider that the financial security of the benefit system is too low. The study also shows that 41 per cent. by LO's members were insecure about their situation on the labour market in 2014 and that 32%. by FTF members it was. Overall, it is an increase that has gone from 18% to 18%. in 2002 said they were insecure to be 37 per cent in 2014. See, that's the challenge. That is why it is understandable that up to 200,000 people have applied for private wage insurance. These are the challenges, and I am sure that the rush towards private wage insurance will continue from solidarity to private life. And that's not gonna solve the deal either. It is against this background that the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party promised significant improvements in the election campaign, but it turned out that you were cheap for sale. Since 2010, the daily allowance area has contributed four and a half billion, and there are some who are beating their chests and saying that now we are returning 300 million • puny 300 million. On the other hand, carnage days must be introduced. It's based on this idea that the unemployed just have to get to work and get to work and get a job. It is based on spin talk that the conciliation has made it easier to reduce the number of days spent on vehicles from 8 to 3. What you've done is you've brought it up from 0 to 3. The graduates are hit hard. It's gonna be hard for those who get hit by it, but it's gonna be hard for our unemployment benefit system too. Eight out of ten are today members of an unemployment fund, but we are cutting the branch on which the benefit system is based, because it is becoming less and less attractive. The agreement, which is now and here on daily allowances, is the settlement of the missed opportunities. The basic idea remains the liberalist voodoo philosophy that you just have to make life miserable for the unemployed and impossible for the benefit recipients. The SF proposes an allowance system that provides security by making it easier to get into an A-box and harder to get thrown out. Everyone speaks on solemn occasions oh, so nice about the Danish model. Now you can show it in practice by helping to build a strong foundation for one of the pillars that bears the Danish model, namely a secure benefit system that is safe both for the unemployed and for the people who are in jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132730	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132736	Thank you. There is talk of great fuss for nothing. That was quite a start. I can also say a great deal of fuss about nothing if we look at the election campaign where Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Pia Olsen Dyhr were smiling at each other as good friends and would stand together for improvements for the unemployed. But now the friends are split, DF has run away, Pia Olsen Dyhr stands alone, great fuss for nothing! What did SF get out of that deal with DF? What did SF get out of standing and braiding fingers with DF and making new friends there?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132819	For the sake of good order, I must point out that, regardless of whether you are friends or not, it is polite in the Folketing to use the indictment form, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132834	I'd like to confirm, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen in that the Danish People's Party is completely untrustworthy and that they ran from their electoral vows. It is pathetic to look at a party that went out and said that it would not touch the rates and itself estimated that up to 700 million would be spent. kr., and then lets them eat off at 300 million. kr. It was a pity to look at. I'd like to confirm that. Leif Lahn Jensen i.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132855	Sir. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132858	Thank you. So I have to ask again, wasn't it too naive? So, everyone in here, except the Danish People's Party, knows that they are running away from one and the other, and that it was the Danish People's Party that then proposed that deterioration in 2010. Wasn't it too naive to believe that you could really hold on to them? Why would they do that? Why did the SF do that? Was it to help the unemployed, and what did the unemployed really get out of it? One can say: had it not been much, much better, if the SF had done as in the old days, when they tried to take responsibility and were in government, instead of standing in front of the cameras and smiling a little naïvely to a Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030132945	Yes, but it is not the first and, unfortunately, not the last time we see both politicians and parties running away from the promises they make. We have seen the Socialists agree to a discount version of the solutions needed to solve the huge challenge that lies ahead. So I guess my disappointment with the Danish People's Party is strictly matched only by my disappointment with the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133006	The next brief remark is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133012	Thank you. I think I'm gonna follow up a little bit where sir. Leif Lahn Jensen ended. The rapporteur himself said in his speech that we hear spin talk of one nature or another. In other words, the agreement reached by the rapporteur's party with the Danish People's Party during the election campaign was in addition to the fact that it was quite visible that it was only the Danish People's Party and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who benefited from it, wasn't it, after all, only spin talk, also from the rapporteur's own party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133042	The agreement we made with the Danish People's Party had a single purpose, and it was to try to create a majority in order to improve conditions for the unemployed in this country and for the people who are in jobs but who are afraid of becoming unemployed. It was the only purpose we had, and we used the tools we could get to, and it was then an agreement we could make with the Danish People's Party. Now it is clear to everyone that they ran away from it, and no longer is it. In other words, we must use the majority that exists, and I would therefore urge the Socialists to look at what can be said about the social majority that actually exists in this Chamber and to call for the courage to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133112	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133116	I am actually glad that I have the opportunity to answer that question. Because what is at stake here is that we in the Social Democratic Party learn from, among other things. the mistakes made by the rapporteur's own party in concluding an agreement which could not be counted down. And we have come to the conclusion that you can never count on what the Danish People's Party actually says or does not say or know what they suddenly think today and tomorrow etc. That is why we also find it virtually impossible to operate with the alternative majority that the rapporteur in part operates with. And this also gives me a very good opportunity to ask again: does the rapporteur feel that the unemployed were strengthened by the agreement with the Danish People's Party, or does he feel that the Danish People's Party was strengthened by the agreement reached by the rapporteur's party with the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133157	The Danish People's Party cheated the unemployed. Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133201	The next short remark is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133207	SF probably also ran from a single election vow or 100 when they themselves came to power in their time. But some of the things the SF did while in government were among others. a cash assistance reform which reduced the benefits for young people on cash benefits, and the profits helped SF to reduce corporate tax. I guess SF didn't do that because they're bad people who think you should be after people on cash benefits. SF did well because it was also thought that there should be an incentive for young people to be in employment. Young people were not to be caught in a cash assistance system. And the effects have also been shown: this has actually contributed to the reduction in the number of young people on cash benefits and to the employment of more people. Isn't that a good thing? Isn't it a good thing that when you make changes, among other things. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that he is not in a position to answer the questions put by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133313	I'd like to confirm that we're cute in the SF. In relation to young people and to the extent that they are generally unemployed in work, the tools to be used are that there must be first and foremost work or there must be training opportunities. In this situation, SF was driven by the desire to get more young people to take an education. The crucial aim we had with it was to help young people to take an education in different ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133341	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133347	But it remains to be seen that SF helped to reduce the rate of cash assistance for young people, and when you look at what has worked in that reform, you can see that this is the element that has had the greatest effect. SF also helped to lower the rates of all transfer income, including cash benefits, so that they will not increase so much. Was it also an indication that SF kicked to the benefit recipients to use the rhetoric that SF is not afraid to use against the rest of us when we say that you should also look at the incentives? Because they actually have an impact on how many people are in employment. SF did. That's what the SF put in the vote. That's the truth. And I guess you didn't, because you're bad people in the SF, but because you also basically, at least when you try to take responsibility, you think you should use the tools that actually work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133436	What gets young people into work and what gets young people into education is that they have the opportunity to get started on what interests them, what they are passionate about. It could be a job, or it could be an education. It was the training efforts in the job centres and in the educational institutions that led to more young people in work and in education. It is quite true that in the package that was made there was also the fact that transfer income is regulated only after price developments. Everyone knows that's not something the SF has made up. We think it was an element that we do not like in a single package. But the overall assessment of that was that we could vote in favour of it. But then there were elements in it that we did not like. And that was one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I note that there are apparently no representatives of the Conservative People's Party present, and that is why we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133534	Thank you for the debate. It shows, of course, that there is still a great deal of interest in the organization of the benefit system. I think this is very positive, given the importance of our benefit system for the smooth functioning of the labour market. It is not surprising that the views are divided, and this applies both to the 2010 reform and to the agreement reached here last week. Regardless of the political differences, I am very pleased that, with a very difficult starting point, the Daily Money Commission managed to achieve this very high degree of agreement on a new unemployment benefit system, and that the government has also succeeded in bringing the recommendations into Christiansborg and reaching an agreement that bridges across the middle of Danish politics. Just as the parties have had to stretch to get the ends to meet in the Commission, the parties responsible for the agreement have done the same, and I welcome the agreement that is now before us. It is my hope that this will end the temporary solutions and that we will have the necessary calm on the rules so that we can now concentrate on the coinage and the establishment of the new system. So thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133714	There are a number of brief comments. First, it's from sir. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133724	Well, I would like to start by wishing the government and the rapporteur apologize, I mean the Minister congratulations on that agreement. I think that's what you call a very good deal from the left side. You took 3 billion. kr. from the benefit system a few years ago, and one-tenth of it was not paid back to the unemployed, to the employees, so congratulations. Can the Minister confirm that the consequence of this sentence, as one of the other rapporteurs called it, is that in the years to come we will see thousands of people losing their right to benefit without being able to get a job and that, because of the expiry of the temporary arrangements, they will be set off and thus will not be able to receive cash benefits, for example. Because they live in an owner's residence? Or e.g. because they have a summer house or a colonial garden house, or because they have a spouse who serves, yes, just an ordinary pedagogy salary or a little more, and that we want to see people who get a reduction in income and go from having an allowance income to having zero?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133829	I can, of course, put it together in this way and say that I can confirm that there are many risks in life, including those related to non-payment of benefits. What is crucial with the benefit system now agreed is that some malfunctions in the benefit system have been removed, so that it provides a much greater incentive and much greater opportunity for people who become unemployed to take different types of job at lower pay, jobs for shorter periods without risking being punished for it in the benefit system. This is a very good improvement on the already active labour market policy in Denmark. In an insurance system it will always be the case that some fall out. We all know, I am sure, the estimates of the benefit commission that, according to their proposals, if you follow them, there will be thousands of people who fall out every year. Our hope is that with the greater increase in the benefit system we can now reduce that figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133940	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030133942	Hope is bright green. It just doesn't help the people who have to sell their homes, take the kids out of school, etc. etc. because they can't get a home in the same area... so the terrible social consequences of this. Then the minister says life is full of risks. Yes, but those risks are not equally shared among the population, sir. Minister. I think the Minister himself has an excellent pension scheme from his previous job in the Danish Employers' Association and, moreover, is guaranteed two years' ministerial salary when he chooses either to go or to go as a minister. So can the Minister confirm that with this benefit reform, the risks between classes in Denmark have been even more unevenly distributed than they were before?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134032	No. The greatest risk for young people and adults in the Danish labour market is to be caught in longterm unemployment. And with the system now agreed here last week, we have leveraged the possibilities of avoiding long-term unemployment by saying that you can safely take any kind of job when you become unemployed without being penalised for it in the benefit system. What we need to do is to keep in touch with the labour market. That is what prevents us from going into the social emergency that has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134102	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134109	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. How can the Minister stand here and say that an agreement has now been reached to prevent longterm unemployment? In other words, the agreement states that it is expected that the agreement will result in 2 000 fewer people losing benefit rights when the agreement enters into force in 2017. But yesterday I received a reply from the Minister to a question I had asked, in which the Minister confirms that in the first half of this year it is 335 per week that loses the right to benefit, or 17,500 per year. So unless the business cycle is reversed, in 2017, when this comes into force, we will still have 15,500 people who lose their benefit rights, and next year we will then • because the improvement that is to be introduced will only come into force in 2017 • experience that 17,500 will lose their benefit rights. When the rules for resuming the benefit system remain unchanged, how can the Minister stand here and say that this is an obstacle to long-term unemployment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134219	What counteracts longterm unemployment is the agreement reached last week which eliminates the inherent risks inherent in the current benefit system in order to be penalised in the benefit system if you take any job of any kind shortly after you have become unemployed. I have no doubt that this element, which strengthens the already active labour market policy in Denmark, will in itself help to reduce long-term unemployment in Denmark, and that is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134246	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134250	Thank you. But that's not true, sir. Minister. For the mechanisms that make so many thousands lose their right to benefit are still gone. It's still only a two-year benefit period. You still have to do one year's work out of the last three years in order to regain your benefit rights once you have lost it. And, of course, there is still a sharp reduction in the scope for maintaining supplementary unemployment benefits. After all, it is the three elements that mean that we have 15 000 to 17 000 people a year who lose their right to benefit. Those mechanisms are unchanged. The Minister must admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134328	I do not agree that these are the elements that trigger long-term unemployment. The worst thing that can happen to maintain contact with the labour market and to continue working life is, unfortunately, to become long-term unemployed or, of course, also to become ill. There have been some flaws in our unemployment benefit system, and unfortunately there are also today where we are standing, but they are being removed with the new unemployment benefit system from 2017. We remove the risk of being reduced to benefit if you take jobs at a lower wage than the one you come from; we remove the loss of benefits that exists today if you take short-term jobs. I am therefore convinced that, when this agreement is implemented, we will have an unemployment benefit system which in itself prevents longterm unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134419	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134424	In this week we have heard that one third of companies say that they have problems in obtaining labour and that one third of that third say that they have already had to say no to orders because they cannot get the labour they need. This reminds us of a situation that we have seen before in Denmark, namely up through the 00s. We have barely come out of a crisis and we are already experiencing bottlenecks in the labour market. Now this deal is closed. We respect that, there is a political majority behind it. But the challenges that Denmark also faces on the a little longer track, to make sure that we do not again end up in a situation like the one we ended up in in the '00s, where there was no due diligence and reforms that could have helped the Danish economy too when there was a crisis. Surely the need to exercise due diligence has not disappeared because a political agreement has now been closed. Does the Minister for Employment agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134535	Yes, I agree with that, and that is why we are continuing negotiations on a ceiling for cash aid. We will continue with negotiations on job reform 2 in the new year. We follow from our ministry very, very closely the development of the entire labour market with risks to bottlenecks, and we invite tripartite negotiations on the other side of the turn of the year to seek to improve matching problems on the Danish labour market. Indeed, I agree that in the years to come they will be a threat to our economy if we do not manage them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134606	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134610	I am, of course, pleased to hear that, and we are always involved in negotiations with the government to resolve some of these challenges. However, when it was decided that it was not possible to make an allowance reform, which in isolation would help to solve some of these challenges, then it is just that the requirements to be more ambitious in other areas are simply greater. They simply have to be bigger. What, then, is needed in other areas? How much is it the Minister's ambition that we should increase employment in Denmark during this period of government so as not to end up in the same situation that we ended up in in the '00s?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134708	I am not going to say anything about this in absolute terms, but I would like to say something about the relationship. For while we have been discussing the outcome of the benefit system in recent years, tens of thousands of citizens from our neighbouring countries have been employed on contractual terms in Denmark, while we have accumulated the long-term unemployed in Denmark. This dilemma needs to be dealt with now, so that we can reverse this trend so that we can increase structural employment in Denmark. Then we must also be extremely aware of our matching problems, which exist because of our imbalance between what we train for Denmark and what public and private employers need from competences. This is a huge challenge that we are following very, very closely and on which we will have plenty of negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134754	We have just a few technical problems, but is it true that Mr. Henning Hyllested has wanted to speak? I'll give it to you, sir. Henning Hylllested now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134803	Thank you. It seems to be very close to the Minister's attention. In any case, the Minister has repeated several times that the new benefit system should lead to people becoming more eager to look for jobs for lower wages, of course. And that is perhaps no wonder, given the Minister's previous employment as President of the DA. What I cannot understand is not the Minister's concern, but the whole of security, which is also part of the flexible labour market and part of the benefit system, namely that there is a system that actually picks people up if they are unfortunate enough to become unemployed. And that happens from time to time to quite a lot of people. Is the Minister not aware at all that this can actually lead to a dispute with the flexible labour market for which Denmark is famous all over the world? Is the Minister not aware that we can have a rigid labour market, because one might not have to react to the top of the trade which sits there today and has helped to make these arrangements, but that may change some way or another, that there is no longer a system that picks people up when they become unemployed and that they do not necessarily have to leave home and home, and that therefore one has to respond with, for example, oneself. What do you mean, resignation arrangements and things like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030134929	What concerns me is not that people should be paid less. What I am concerned about here is to set out the quality improvements contained in the new benefit agreement. And unfortunately, as I mentioned earlier, in certain situations the existing benefit system punishes people for taking a job. That is not appropriate. Those problems have been resolved and, as these problems have been resolved in the new agreement, we have made a significant contribution to increasing the flexibility of the Danish labour market, which is very, very valuable. We have not helped to weaken flexibility. I completely disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135006	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135011	In reality, flexibility is being weakened, and the quality of the Danish unemployment benefit system is being weakened when it is reduced. It can well be argued that the problems still exist, which states that the period of benefit has not been extended, that the recovery requirement has not been halved and that no solution has been found to the problem of supplementary allowances. Here there was, of course, an element that could have created some flexibility. So it is probably a bit of an allegation by the Minister to say that greater flexibility has been created when one has increased the insecurity of one party to the system, namely the party that is at risk of unemployment and therefore has to find other solutions to that problem. I have said this in the past: we have to respond, for example. With retirement allowances and the kind of things that you have to travel to employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135101	The benefit system that has just been agreed is a marked improvement in relation to the benefit system that was in force until 2010. As documented by the Daily Money Commission, the 2010 Agreement has provided a structural improvement of 15,000 jobs. That is, of course, one of the issues involved: increasing employment. It in itself provides security, and the agreement we made last week removes a number of beauty stains, plus that it also adds 300 million to the Left's wishes. kr. to the system as a whole. This means that we now have an agreement on a significantly safer and better benefit system than we have had in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135137	Thank you. There is no further request for brief comments, so we thank the Minister. Sir. Finn Sørensen has asked for the floor for the second round. In the second round, sir. Finn Sørensen 5 minutes' speaking time, other rapporteurs have 3 minutes' speaking time. Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135153	Thank you. I have no need to repeat the whole debate, because that is probably what would come out of a second round. I would just like to take this opportunity, like the author of the question, to thank all the rapporteurs for a good debate. I think everyone has gone to great lengths to stay on track and to deal with what was the subject of this question. We have also achieved that the differences have been clearly drawn up, and that in itself is excellent. This contributes to the political clarification. I would like to respond to a single criticism from the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Leif Lahn Jensen, who presented it as if Enhedslisten would not recognise that there are improvements in the settlement he has been involved in. That is not true, as my rapporteur said, where I acknowledged that there are improvements in it. But unlike Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is opposed to the fact that it is for the unemployed themselves to finance these improvements. That, then, is the difference between our parties, not only in this issue, but also in others. I am a little sorry that the rapporteurs of the conciliation parties did not want to deal with a fact, namely that they acted contrary to a promise they made to the electorate. I do not believe that this benefits the electorate's confidence in the political system, but it is, of course, the choice of these parties. First of all, I am sorry that the rapporteurs in the conciliation parties did not want to deal with the reality that I tried to outline when we started the debate, namely that with the figures we know today, approx. 17,000 people lose their daily allowance rights every year. And according to the conciliation parties, that figure can only be reduced to about 15,000 a year. The figures also show that, as temporary benefits expire, thousands more will lose support because of the rules on cash benefits. But instead of acknowledging that, I see that you are trying to stick your head in the sand and hope that it will pass. It does not, it is clear to everyone, and that is why this debate will, of course, continue until a majority has been created to carry out an unemployment benefit reform that gives employees the security they need. Then I also see that we have received a clear message from the Socialists that they stand by the conciliation they have made. I think that's fair enough. But then my conclusion is that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has no ambition to put an end to the unemployment benefit reform adopted by the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party in 2010 and, although they should have the ambition to rectify it and create real solutions for the many thousands of people who have already lost their right to benefit and the many thousands who are following them, they cannot fulfil their ambitions because they have committed themselves to a settlement where the Left has the right of veto. So our view is that the support of the Socialists for this conciliation makes it much harder to achieve a secure and solidarity benefit system and provide real answers to the many thousands of people affected, and we find that regrettable. But that does not change the fact that Enhedslisten will continue to fight, and we are sure that a great many trade unions and very many employees will too, and the resistance to VKO's unemployment benefit reform, which is still in force and contained in the new settlement, will grow as the consequences arise. So we are pleased that we have found a common platform with SF and the alternative in this discussion, knowing that we do not necessarily agree on everything. But it is, after all, a concrete result of today's debate, so thank you to the two parties for that, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135523	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has asked for the floor in the second round as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135529	Thank you. I am told that the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring, is not present. Finn Sørensen, thank you for a very good debate. That's what I'm gonna do. I did the same in my introduction, where I said that I think it is very good that we are doing it. Sir. Finn Sørensen has also promised that we will have the debate later. I thank you for that too. Because this is such an important issue that we will have to debate it. I just have to sort out a few things that I have heard in the debate, as Mr. Finn Sørensen did too. That is why I am also speaking here in the second round. It's about, sir. Finn Sørensen, taking responsibility and doing something for these people. And you don't just do that by shouting out loud like the Enhedslisten and by not wanting to go into some things unless there are millions and billions on the table. It is a question of going in and negotiating. It's about being open and honest to go in and see if you can't improve the conditions for these people. Nor is it done, as the SF did in the election campaign, by making an agreement with DF, which also didn't last. You do this by going to the table and looking into the eyes of your dealers and colleagues and making an agreement that you can be satisfied with. And we are. Then there are some who have asked: is there a right of veto here or is there not? It is, of course, the case in a settlement that if you have to break it, you have to do it before an election. That's the way it has to be. Those who have read the text of the agreement can also see that together we will be following developments closely. We have looked into each other's eyes and said that if it turns out that there are a lot of people falling out or something else, we will of course look at it. And we Social Democrats are always in favour of negotiations with the view that if there are any consequences that are unintended, that is, something that does not work, then of course we must also change it. And that's the best way to do it when you're sitting at the table and not as Enhedslisten has chosen to sit outside. Then there was also a question of who got the most. Well, I was glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Joachim B. Olsen said it was in a red direction and not in a blue direction. I mean, 300 million. kr. That's it. 2,000 fewer fall out. And the employment impact is negative 840 people. I am not sure the Liberals are so happy about that. I would not say that we or the Liberals have made the most of it. I think we can look ourselves in the eye and say that this was really good. But what I want to say is that I think it is the unemployed who are getting something out of it, because now fewer people are falling out and there are more who have the opportunity to stay longer in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135815	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are four who have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135821	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm three things: can the rapporteur confirm that the Enhedslisten has not been invited to these negotiations so that it has not been possible to test the willingness of the Enhedslisten to negotiate? Can the rapporteur confirm that the Enhedslisten has taken many responsibilities over several years, when we were a parliamentary basis for Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government, otherwise the government would not have been in office for four years either? And can the rapporteur confirm that this discussion is about the fact that we disagree on what responsibility should be assumed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030135901	Of course, we disagree on what we have to take responsibility for. I do not know whether you have been invited or not. I am not, in fact, the Minister of Finance or the right to serve. But I also think that most people in here know that this is probably not the answer, because the Enhedslisten will only do anything if you spend billions of dollars. That's the way it is, and that's why I don't know if you've been invited. I would also like to say that, of course, you have to take a lot of responsibility, and Enhedslisten has also done so on some points. I just didn't understand what came when I was here last time, where mr. Pelle Dragsted kind of wondered about labour market benefits and all those things, and that it was something that didn't have the effect at all. It was just billions out of pocket, and it didn't come to any of the unemployed. So I don't know what responsibility it is that Enhedslisten has taken, and if they're not even proud of the things they've been involved in. But I would say: yes, of course the Enhedslisten has taken responsibility, but I also have to tell you here from the platform about the difference between Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten, and why we do what we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140000	Sir. Finn Sørensen to the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140003	Well then, I should just like to thank the rapporteur for confirming that the Enhedslisten has taken responsibility and that what this discussion is about is that we disagree on what we should take responsibility for. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140017	We kind of agree that this benefit reform is overall good, but we disagree on how good it is. We also disagree that 2 000 fewer people are falling out, which I think this will do. It's paid 300 million. kr. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet reached agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140045	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140048	We've never really talked about spending a lot of new money. We've been talking about the fact that you should return the money you took from the benefit system. That is what the Socialists felt before the previous elections, but leave it at that. What I really want to hear is more like looking forward. Because there are a lot of people out there who are not satisfied with the result that has been achieved. We saw this in a number of speeches at the LO Congress, and we have also seen it in the statements of a number of local union leaders and others. There may then be different views on this. I also believe that there are a great many employees around who are disappointed with that result. So my question is actually quite simple: if you are now an employee or a trade union member or whatever you are and want a better benefit system, can the rapporteur confirm that it is not the Socialists that you should put your vote on before the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140145	I can at least confirm that if you want a better system than what we have, you should also look your trade union movement in the eye. Because the trade union movement kind of approved this system. The only difference between what the trade union actually proposed in the Commission and what we have taken from there is the difference between 78 per cent. to graduates, as they suggested, to 71.5%, as we suggested. So I would say: put on critical glasses in relation to us, but do so also in relation to the trade union movement. I think the trade union movement has taken responsibility here. The trade union movement has entered into a negotiation and, of course, they have tried to see if they could do so within a zero sum, that is. in the resources that were now available. The union couldn't, and then they went out and said openly and honestly: we have this pain limit, and we can't do more than that. And then we had to take political responsibility afterwards. So I think the trade union movement has done quite well. They have not quite dealt with what they were asked for, but they did so in relation to what they were thinking. And that's why I'm pretty calm, too, because when the LO and the trade union have agreed to this, I actually think it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140248	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140249	Now it is not the case that the LO chairman was met with standing applause to the LO Congress over this settlement. I think most people can agree on that. But I did not get an answer to my question, and it was actually quite simple: if, as an employee in Denmark prior to the next elections, you want to vote for a party that wants a better benefit system than what has been agreed, the rapporteur can confirm that you should not vote for one of the conciliation parties, including the Socialists, so that you have to vote for one of those parties, for example. The unit list, the alternative or SF, which actually wants a better benefit system than what we have now? It is a simple question, and I expect I can get a yes or no answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140327	I can answer that quite clearly: if the citizens want to point to a party that can bring improvements to the unemployed and that can negotiate improvements, then they should not point to the Enhedslisten, then they should not point to the alternative, then they should not point to the SF. Then they must point to the Social Democracy, because we have shown results, and we have done so with our forehead raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140348	Sir. Henning Hyllested has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140352	That was just like the thing about coming in and sitting at the table. After all, it is easy enough to go in and sit at the table and make some agreements when you erode the agreements for those for whom you claim to be negotiating. And that's what happened here. It's easy enough to make an agreement when you meet the opponent, in this case the Left. I certainly hope that this is not how the rapporteur negotiated when he was a shop steward at A.P. Møller - Mærsk's terminal in Århus. I certainly don't think so. I do not know why this has become the case now that the rapporteur has become a member of the Parliament of the Socialists. It is such a special social democratic discipline. The fact is that there was an alternative majority, and all the negotiating tactics probably suggest that we use the strength we have in the negotiations. And it is a tremendous strength to have that you actually have an alternative majority against the opponent with whom you sit and negotiate. You didn't use that force, on the contrary, and then it's easy enough to make appointments and be responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140458	There's something I don't understand. For Mr. Henning Hylllested says we're losing a deal. Well, I just heard, sir. Finn Sørensen stands here on the platform and says that overall it is better than the 2010 reform. How, then, can we say that we have deteriorated it? I think we went into that debate and made a clear improvement for the unemployed that they would never have had if we had not been there. That is why Enhedslisten needs to find out what they actually mean, because now I can have some doubts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140529	Sir. Henning Hyllested to second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140531	The rapporteur does not need that at all, and it is purely spin and polemic that. The fact is that the unemployed themselves have paid around 1 billion. kr. For this. It's really feeding the dog with its own tail. And I can now understand that the rapporteur believes that the reduction in the graduation rate, the introduction of three days' leave and the fact that no solution has been found to the supplementary allowance are suddenly improvements. Oh, my God! Then I understand you can make deals with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140608	The improvement is that we have added 300 million. kr., which was not there before; the improvement is that there are 2,000 fewer who fall out because we have made an agreement; the improvement is that there are more who can stay in the benefit system. So there are improvements. With regard to the part that came from the Commission, I would say that yes, there was in fact a better system for 1.2 billion. kr. It is clear that priority was given to 900 million. kr. in the system, and then it was added 300 million. kr., but there are clear improvements, and so it is. I also think that Mr. Henning Hyllested knows that when you go into a debate, you get some improvements, but there are also some camels that you have to swallow. I am a little surprised that some of those sitting here from the Enhedslisten today have been shop stewards. I believe that, when they were shop stewards, they had to swallow some camels and make some agreements with the parties out there, where they also had to be given some things. But, of course, I can be wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140702	I would remind you that you only have 30 seconds in the second round of short remarks. Moreover, I have to comment on the fact that the two former dockworkers have shown that they can actually stay within the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and still show that they have a commitment. The next brief remark is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140722	See, I'm in this way a little bit divided in this, now that I'm gonna ask mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Because on the one hand, I actually like modest people. Well, there is something charming about people who so have very little expectations of themselves and of life. I'd like to ask Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen: Do we agree that we have 4.5 billion? kr., which has been contributed by the benefit system? And now, on the side of the conciliation parties, we are struck by the fact that 300 million have been carried over. kr. Back up. I just mean, isn't the ambition really greater than just getting to be at the table? Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has mentioned in several speeches during the day that it is just the matter of getting in at all. I would say that it is actually very modest to be allowed in, but what we have to measure a conciliation is the result, I suppose. And how can you come to the conclusion that it is something to boast that you have got 300 million? kr. out of 4.5 billion. kr.? And now you have 2,000 fewer people falling out, but there are still up to 12,000 who actually feel the feeling of five cold toes in the back, yes, sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140828	I cannot help thinking that you can say that it is a lot of millions. I have mentioned several times how much money has been set aside for this and that it would not have happened if we had not been there. But can we not try to look at the 2,000 people in one year I almost wish we could have room for them in the Chamber? And then we can say to them: you have not, in fact, fallen out of the benefit system because the Socialists entered this reform. All of you 2,000 would have fallen off the allowance if it had been for the SF and Enhedslisten, because they didn't go into any reform or negotiation. It might be quite interesting to bring them in here, but unfortunately they cannot be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140902	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140903	I can listen to it all, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen confirms to me that it is to try to put out a roof fire with a water gun.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140914	I think that's more like it when you put your hands on DF in an election campaign. No, in fact, I think that what we have done is that we have really tried to hold a debate. We're not just talking and smiling and making new friends out in the media. We take responsibility, and we try to do better for these people, and I think we have done that. Then everyone can ask themselves what SF has got out of everything they've done, and the answer is: Nothing. Now they have the yelling right, and that's fine yelling loose, but we're actually doing something about it, and we're making improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140947	The penultimate brief remark to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030140952	I actually understand the amazement at Enhedslisten and also in part at SF. After all, the truth is that the Social Democrats basically thought that the unemployment benefit reform that was made in 2010 was right. It was not made by a Social Democratic government, no, but a Social Democratic government would also have made an allowance reform in 2010 if one had been in power and had had to deal with the challenges that Denmark faced at that time. That was also why the Social Democratic Party did not change the unemployment benefit reform of 2010 when they themselves gained power, and that is also why they think that it is basically a good idea that an unemployment benefit reform has been put in place that cements the reform of 2010. That is the truth, and everything else is just noise that the Social Democrats have used in their election campaign and in their attacks on the bourgeois parties. Anyone with a minimum of insight into Danish politics can see that through, and it would just be liberating if the Social Democrats were honest about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141104	Then I'm gonna throw some facts on the table, because I know that mr. Joachim B. Olsen likes facts. And that's not something I found in Saxo Bank's Bible... don't worry. What I want to say is that in 2010 we voted against this. In 2011, we went to the polls that we wanted to change the daily allowance system and we lost. There was a majority who wanted the benefit system that had been adopted in 2010 and we lost that choice. Later, the Danish People's Party didn't know which leg to stand on, but we lost that election, which means that when some were sitting up in the tower in 2011, there was no majority for this benefit system. And that's why, in my speech at the beginning of the day here, I told you about all the things we've tried to improve the lives of these people. We spent so much money on it, and then Enhedslisten was even there. Now we're trying to change it, and that's why we made it with the commission, and now we've changed it. So I'm not buying that. I think the rapporteur needs to look into a different Bible from Saxo Banks to find these fact sheets. Because this is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141215	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen to the second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141217	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen knows that he is only lying to himself if he claims that, if they had had power back in 2010, the Social Democratic Party had not also made an allowance reform because of course they would also solve the challenges that Danish economy faced at that time. I know the history, but the thing is that the reason why you were so much opposed in 2010 was that you hadn't had the power of government for over 8 years, and you were willing to say everything to get into government. One took responsibility in part when one came into government by running away from all the electoral vows one had given. But basically, you think this is a sensible reform. That's why you're cementing it by being part of the deal you're in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141314	The reason we voted against is why we spent 4.5 billion. kr. in order to improve it, and the reason why we have been sitting at the negotiating table and creating a much better system than there was before, is not, of course, that we liked the unemployment benefit reform of 2010. I've heard sir. Joachim B. Olsen say a lot of nonsense in this Chamber, but this is one of the worst nonsense I've ever heard. We are doing this because we think that the unemployment benefit reform of 2010 was bad, as we have said on several occasions. I have also said so myself and we would like to change it. And it has actually succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141345	The last person who has asked for brief comments is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141350	Well, that's kind of atypical, but I'm afraid I'm gonna have to give Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen is right that there is some strange underlying attitude on the part of the Social Democrats that from 2010 it might not be so bad. I have two examples, and they are both direct quotes from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is not alone, because Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt and others have also said so. When we talked about this reform, they said that the phase-in was too hard. And phase-in means how long it takes before we have to be down to the bottom with 2 years of cash benefits and 1 year to reclaim. You haven't talked about the contents... just phase-in. Or like today, where Mr. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen can take up his speech and start by saying that it was a bad reform in a time of crisis. No, it's wrong, I'd say to Mr. Simpson. Leif Lahn Jensen. If you meant something serious with security for the workers in Denmark, it would have been a bad reform, and not just in a time of crisis! Therefore, I would like a clear answer: would you have been involved in going all the way if there had been a majority in the Danish Parliament, i.e. 4 years' daily allowance, 1⁄2 years' return and proper supplementary allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141503	I just have to say that I fully agree with the fact that the phase-in was too harsh. It was too hard. Why do Enhedslisten think we made that temporary extension in 2012? If we had not done all the things that we have done and that I also mentioned in my speech, training scheme, emergency jobs, temporary labour market benefits, cash benefits, then there would have been a lot of people who had stood without anything to live on after 1 July 2012. So I totally agree that this phase-in was too hard. That is also why we did all the things we did, and that is why we are now trying to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141539	Sir. Mr Juhl, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection,
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141541	That was not at all an answer to what the Socialists really think would be the right solution... not even the suggestion of an answer. I would like to point out that in 2011 after the elections, I sat all the way with me so that I can remember every meeting that was held with ministers and so on. Okay, then we'll have to make a patch solution. Corydon wasn't supposed to have been involved in the patch solutions it ended up with. We wanted a fundamental change, but there was opposition to that. I remember how the President of the AK-Samvirke was called a darkman by even Social Democrats; indeed, he should not interfere in the political discussion, they said then, until everyone could see that he was right. I just think it might happen, we have the yelling right now. But the Socialists use their whole right to hide that they will not be involved in any reforms and that they feel comfortable together with DF and Left in a rotten settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141645	I feel comfortable every time I can do something for the unemployed, and it has actually succeeded here. What is most important is to get the unemployed off the ground, and we did so by making the employment reform that was made then, we are doing so by creating jobs, as did the Socialist Government, and now we are creating more security for these people. I was at the LO Congress, too. I went up there all three days, of course I did what they should be allowed to say to me. And I don't have any pain in my shoulder because I got plenty of shoulder flap. But a lot of people also said that this was actually okay. So I can tell by myself that I am comfortable with it, because as long as we can help the unemployed, that is what we are doing. It may be that we can't go all the way that Enhedslisten wants, because they want either-or not any of that stuff in between. But there I am just completely different from the negotiating point, and I just want good results.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141738	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short remarks, and since no one else has asked for the floor, the debate has ended. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 3 November 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141803	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030141821	Thank you, sir. President. An absolutely crucial principle in the Danish labour market is a flexible and mobile workforce. It is a basis for growth and prosperity, and it is thus also to the satisfaction of both employees and employers and, in general, of the entire Danish society as a whole. In other words, we must do everything we can to ensure optimum conditions for flexibility and mobility in the labour market. Part of that effort is about employment clauses, and that is what this bill we are discussing here is about. I recognise that in some cases it may be necessary for companies to make use of employment clauses. It may certainly be necessary to keep some particular business secrets, but at the same time I would also like to stress that they must be used with caution. This is firstly because employment clauses hit individual employees hard, and employment clauses prevent employees from looking where they can get the best terms and the best use of their knowledge. It is therefore essential that the clauses should only be used when strictly necessary. Secondly, the clauses can result in a huge waste of know-how and skills, which means that the employee is locked for a longer period of time. It is wasted on those companies that need skilled employees, and ultimately it slows down growth and innovation, and nobody can benefit from that. It is therefore also gratifying that we are now dealing with this legislative proposal which restricts the use of employment clauses. This draft law regulates the use, and it applies to both a restriction of competition and customer clauses and a direct ban on job clauses with a few exceptions. Specifically, this means, inter alia, that clauses must be concluded in writing, that employees are entitled to compensation and that the clauses must last for a maximum of one year. In addition, the draft law also means that rules are laid down as to the consequences of non-compliance with an employment clause by either the employer or the employee, and that is good. One thing I think it is important to note in this bill is that it is based on a common understanding between the social partners. The bill is based on an agreement between the Danish Employers' Association and the LO on the regulation of employment clauses. At the same time, it is possible for the social partners to derogate from the new rules by means of collective agreements. This means that the social partners can introduce employment clauses in those sectors where this makes good sense. For us, it is a good example of why the Danish labour market works so well; it is because the different parties jointly negotiate solutions that benefit everyone. With the bill here, we ensure better conditions for employees who need to be able to look where they can get the best conditions, and at the same time we do not lock up skilled labour and knowledge so that companies that need it cannot hire the right people, because that will only slow down innovation and growth. All this ensures a mobile and flexible labour market. The Socialists can therefore support this proposal, and at the same time I have promised to announce that the Socialist People's Party also supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142118	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142128	Thank you, President. I'll try to be brief. Now we have just heard the former rapporteur go through the bill a little more meticulously. After all, this is an old agreement from the time of the previous government, which we had actually dealt with first before the elections were held, and it was a question of employment, customer and competition clauses. In this context, it is important to say that there was a broad consensus that labour market conditions should be more relaxed and that it should be easier for people to change jobs, including in this context. But since it's almost every party behind this, I'm not gonna let anyone get tired of going into more detail. Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen made in advance. I just want to say that the Danish People's Party naturally supports this proposal, as it is an old agreement that we are still standing by, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142233	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142241	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur has distinguishedly examined the content of the draft law. As I said, this is a re-submission, and we support this bill. Basically, it is about new regulation of employment clauses, and it stems from a desire to create better conditions for growth in society and to create higher labour mobility and knowledge dissemination for the benefit of labour market productivity. This bill is based on a broad political agreement which the social partners have subsequently contributed to getting even better done, and with this bill a balance has been found which the Left wishes to maintain. Against this background, I would like to say that the Left supports this bill, and I must also say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that they also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142352	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142405	The Enhedslisten is fundamentally opposed to restricting Danish workers, employees and employees in their mobility in the labour market. There may certainly be a few reasons for using employment clauses. We then wondered at one point about the fact that the director of the FSA, who is, after all, the chief overseer of the banks, was suddenly the director of the Financial Council, which is the bank's interest organisation. Perhaps one might have thought that there was some kind of employment clause which allowed such a change to be made within a certain number of years. After all, there was very good knowledge to carry from the Danish FSA to the Danish Finance Council. But for ordinary workers, employees, and employees, we think it's untimely to use this kind of thing. The current employment clauses have to a large extent been abused by employers for staff tying employees, for example: an accountant or an ordinary official because they have been threatened with heavy claims by their employers because of the employment clauses. It's a kind of stick binding year 2015. This is something that, as you know, even in agriculture, many years ago, 1788, as I remember. We think that it is absurd that, for example, there should be a ban on the use of hormones. 11% by HK/Privat members are subject to an employment clause. 11% After all, every ninth HK in the private sector. It's only 1⁄2%. of HK's members, e.g. are leaders, and it is only for those where we believe that it could be discussed in some cases. In practical terms, this means that, for example, a regular accountant from a large company with many customers cannot apply for a job in the industry if there is a clause, and it is, in our opinion, quite absurd when the accountant knows nothing more than for example. the deposits to the bank. The aim of the draft law is to try to limit these illegal clauses, and it should be said that in some areas, for example: In the case of hourly wages, there are benefits. However, in our opinion, the new bill does not solve the problem, as I mentioned earlier, with the HKs. There is a slight change in the rules, particularly for the hourly earnings that I mentioned, which is why the draft law is, in our opinion, unambitious. The problems with the new draft law are as follows: firstly, there is still the possibility for companies to make illegal job clauses preventing employees from taking up employment in another company without the cost of a fine or compensation for employees; secondly, it is free for an employer to impose illegal competition and customer clauses on employees because there is no claim for damages or compensation. Thirdly, there is no requirement to pay on an ongoing basis in order to impose an employment clause on the employee. It is only at the time of termination that payment has to be made, and this means that the employer himself decides when the company disclaims the clause, while the employee cannot disclaim the clause. Then there is a concept here that we need to focus on. It's called specially trusted. It is not defined, and it gives employers free interpretation. This means that there will continue to be many ordinary employees who are forced on these stick-binding rules. In our opinion, a whole barn door has been opened for interpretations in this area, without help being given to get clear information on what is specially entrusted to us. Finally, I would like to say that there is no provision for the establishment of a fast-acting dispute settlement system. This means that the present very slow system continues, so a decision on illegal clauses is certainly not until many months after they are applied. This means that it is not only free but also without the risk for the employer to apply the clauses. That is not good enough in our opinion, and on that basis we would say that the Enhedslisten is very critical of what is here and will urge the government to listen, among other things. to HK's objections, so that the rights of ordinary employees are properly safeguarded in the law, when we are now in the process of correcting the errors. We shall be tabling the necessary amendments at committee reading and taking a position when we see the outcome of the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142807	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142816	After all, this is a re-submission of a legislative proposal which was not dealt with before elections were held. We were against this bill when it was first tabled, under the last government. This is first and foremost because we believe that pay and employment conditions are something that the social partners alone must take care of. So this is also true in this area. The trade union movement wanted politicians to go in and change the rules in this area. The previous government listened to that. Then the social partners came together and drew up what has become, by and large, the legislative proposal we are debating today. But when it is presented as if this is an expression of a voluntary agreement between the social partners, that is wrong. The social partners and, in this case, the employers were told: We are changing this; you can make an agreement, but we are changing this. This is not voluntary. It's volunteering with a gun on its head, so to speak. So we can't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030142949	Thanks to Joachim B. Olsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143001	Thank you. With the bill, the current rules on competition and customer clauses will apply to all employees and not only to employees, as is the case in the existing law. The draft law imposes a number of conditions which the employer must comply with in order to be able to commit employees through employment clauses. Among other things: the clauses shall be enforceable up to a maximum of 12 months after the termination of the employee's duties, contracts for clauses shall be made in writing and the compensation rules shall be amended to compensate the employee in proportion to the period covered by the clauses. We welcome the desire to restrict the use of employment clauses and to ban job clauses overall, so as to ensure the mobility of workers and greater knowledge sharing in the labour market for the benefit of all of us. High mobility ensures greater flexibility in the labour market, and qualifications find where they are most valuable, both for the individual employee and for the economy as such. At the same time, in the Alternative, we welcome a proposal that can help create a better framework for entrepreneurship in Denmark, as this flexible mobility and greater knowledge sharing allow former employees with precious experience and knowledge to create new businesses that can thus be more easily created. As a result, more people can move from taking a job to creating a job. That is why we support the proposal in the Alternative, and we would like to acknowledge the work that has been done in advance of the proposal, namely in the preparation of the 'Growth Package 2014'. At the same time, we have heard from large trade unions in previous hearings that they have indicated that they want a ban on employment clauses. I would therefore also like to signal that in committee we are open to amendments so that we can qualify this bill even more. In general, however, we are satisfied with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143150	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143201	Thank you, President. After all, several of the rapporteur's colleagues have explained very carefully what the agreement behind this bill is about. I should just like to add very briefly that it is actually a reversal of a partial agreement from the growth package, where we were a very large majority of parties who wanted to restrict the use of these employment clauses. I think, as we also said in the debate before the elections, this is a re-submission that we now find a good balance between the considerations that we must take and should take, both for workers, but also for employers and the economy. It is still possible for companies that need it to protect real business secrets by applying clauses when it comes to customers and when it comes to competition, but vice versa we have seen here that there was a certain asymmetry, because it is the worker who is here the vulnerable party, and that is why we have had this political desire to regulate. So that is what we are doing now, also in order to strengthen the economy as a whole, in relation to how employment clauses are used. So in the Radical Left, of course, we continue to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143342	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next is the Minister for Employment, since we have been informed by two of the other parties who were not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143356	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their kind treatment of the proposal. As you know, the bill is a re-submission of a bill which was dealt with in the spring and which lapsed as a result of the discharge of the parliamentary elections. The draft law was therefore first examined only before it was repealed. I have chosen to retable the proposal largely unchanged with some minor technical comments. It is the government's assessment that the bill supports the balance between the interests of employees, companies and society, and overall it will help to strengthen productivity in Danish companies. The balance of the draft law has also been expressed, as the social partners have, in agreement, contributed to the concrete implementation of this bill. I am pleased that today's debate has shown that the draft law can meet the intentions and wishes of the political agreement, and I look forward to further consideration by the Employment Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143458	There are no brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143516	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrat Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143540	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal here, like the previous one, is part of the re-submission of a proposal which was not finalised before the elections were held. That is why I do not think it is necessary to use as many words on this occasion as on the previous one. However, basically, the proposal is about harmonising the investment rules for the ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund, so that they are more similar to those for insurance companies after the implementation of the Solvency II Directive. In the future, Danish society is facing a number of massive changes, and this naturally requires investment in jobs both in the public and private sectors. These are investments which, in our opinion, must of course also be able to come from these employees' funds. Among other things, it will: give the ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund the opportunity to invest in the Danish infrastructure, and thus in the future they will have the chance to get involved in, for example. public private partnerships for the construction of roads and the construction of bridges. Therefore, it is also time for us to let the ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund into the heat. This requires some adjustments contained in this bill, the purpose of which is to implement amendments to the legislation on the ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund plus a number of minor technical changes elsewhere, for example an exemption from the Public Service Act for reasons of financial interests in relation to investments and exemption from the registration fee of 0.6%. in connection with the transfer of property within the group. In this bill there is also a new element compared to the then bill 184 that was tabled before the elections. It is about the extension of ATP's ability to offer insurance services to certain foreign companies via a foreign subsidiary. I can say here that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. And, as last time, I have also promised to announce that the Socialist People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143734	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143745	Thank you, President. This bill, as has been said, is a legislative proposal that had already been first and second examined before the elections, and there was strong support for it even then. It allows ATP an extension of their ability to invest in things other than those they were locked in before. I am not going to delay it because it has been excellently examined by the former rapporteur. I just want to say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143820	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143826	Thank you. Yes, as I said, it is a re-submission, and it is, of course, a question of the ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund investing their assets on the basis of a principle to ensure that companies are constantly moving towards this Solvency II directive and that the interests of Members are safeguarded in the best possible way. It is also a bill that now allows the ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund to invest in operating infrastructure like other insurance companies and gives them the same opportunity to invest in subsidiaries. This is something we welcome and we support on the legislative proposal. I would also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party in this instance and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143924	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030143936	We can support most of the elements of this bill and, above all, the proposal that the Board of Directors of the Employees' Animal Time Fund be subject to the same rules on the distribution of men and women on the Board of Directors as the ATP. However, there is one point that we do not support, and that is quite crucial, and that is the point that ATP and LD should not be covered by the law on public administration, popularly known as the Public Law. This is a very wrong restriction on the ability of citizens to gain insight into the investment policy of the big money tanks. We have heard that some people say that this is also the case in the Growth Fund, and that is also the case in other public funds. And that is, of course, the case per year. definition in private investment firms. But so far, there has been an extended opportunity to gain insight into how ATP and LD organise their investments, and we believe that this should continue to be the case. Instead of restricting it in ATP and LD with reference to the rules of e.g. The growth fund, we think it would be better to go the other way and say that the opportunities that exist today must be extended to the Export Credit Fund, to the Growth Fund and Financial Stability. I say this because, for example, we... in relation to the Export Credit Foundation several times in the Danish Parliament has tried to gain insight into how to organise your investment policy, including the organisation of investment policy in a way that may move jobs out of Denmark. For example, the Export Credit Fund has... actively, through its investment policy, countered that things are being produced in Denmark, for example. in the shipping sector, but instead it is produced in other countries with the support of the Export Credit Fund. This is quite important, we think, then, that employees can gain insight into how their money is spent and whether it is used to counter the interests of employees in investing in jobs in this country. But every time we have tried to gain insight into it, we have been rejected with the argument that it is secret. So it is very crucial for us that the bill is amended on this point. And we will therefore, as we did during the discussion of the legislative proposal in spring 2015, table amendments to delete this paragraph. And our position on the bill will be very dependent on how those amendments work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144200	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144218	This is also a matter of re-submission, and we can support this bill before the elections too. That's what I'm gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144233	It was short and precise. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144240	Thank you for the floor. In the alternative, we support the proposal because there is good reason to expand the investment opportunities of the two funds, as do those which exist for other pension funds. Like other pension companies, ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund aim to ensure and invest and safeguard the interests of employees in the best possible way, and a safe move towards the Solvency II Directive gives insured persons greater protection and security. In addition, we are faced with many changes in society, including a lot of public investment with, among other things, a lot of public investment. the green transition, we hope. Of course, this requires investments that ATP and LD should not be excluded from participating in on an equal footing with other pension companies. However, we disagree with the point that ATP and LD should be more exempt from the law on public disclosure in the administration. It is true that this is the case for the Growth Fund, for example. and other public funds and, of course, private investment companies, but in the public sector there has so far been an increased opportunity to gain insight into the organisation of investments, and we think this is appropriate, and that is why we will support an amendment that goes on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144346	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144356	Thank you for the floor, President. We in the Radical Left can also support this bill, which harmonises the law on the ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund with the rules that apply to the other pension sector, so that they have the same basis for investing. This is also true, for example. in buildings and major public infrastructure projects. Moreover, it is an implementation of the EU directive Solvency II, which we of course also believe should apply all around here. So I do not think I need to do much now: full support from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144444	Thank you. And then we go to the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144453	Thank you for the treatment that the bill has been given here in the Things today. As you know, most of the draft law was first and second reading in the spring, but it was cancelled because of the announcement of the election. The Government has chosen to table the bill once again, this time with a minor addition to ATP's investment opportunities. This is a very technical draft law which mainly affects the future investment activities of ATP and LD. With the bill, we harmonise the law on ATP and LD with the rules applicable to the other pension sector. Furthermore, the persons in ATP and LD who are required to meet fitness and integrity requirements are extended to key employees, and the LD board will be subject to the rules that it must have a balanced gender composition. The draft law also introduces minor technical amendments to the VAT Act. I am pleased that we are doing something to provide ATP and LD with the same basis for investment as the other pension sector. Again, I would like to thank you for the consideration of the draft law, and I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144610	There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144615	Thank you and thank the Minister. Now I listened very intensively: there was no comment on the criticism of the limited possibility of the law on public access to the administration, which has been raised, among other things. by Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144634	The extension sought in the draft law for the investment company to be kept confidential is a security that matters in the context of negotiations between ATP and foreign investment companies. It is a security that is now achieved subsequently, in concrete terms, when an application is made for access to the activities concerned on the basis of the Public Service Act. But that means, as it is today, that when you enter into negotiations on major complexes, you cannot give certainty to the other parties in advance that the economy, intentions and strategies of the other parties do not suddenly come to the knowledge of the Danish public. This puts ATP at a much worse disadvantage in the case of larger ones, for example. international investment other than other companies, and ultimately it goes beyond pension savers, and we do not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144745	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144746	Thank you. But that means that the public must suffer from it. And that really is a restriction on public access to see what is happening. There is no question of the status quo. This is a real deterioration in the understanding of what you are doing. And I don't understand that at all. We have been able to live with this until now, and then we can live with it for the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144808	This means a real improvement in the security of other investors. How much that will really mean, I cannot say, because it is the case that many of these activities are already activities which are specifically excluded if you apply for access to documents under the Public Access Act. So it matters for ATP's ability to enter into larger consortia in negotiations for the purchase of larger assets.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144837	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144856	The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted as rapporteur for the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030144909	This bill is about adjustments to the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland. The law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland was introduced in 2011, and the bill here provides for a number of minor adjustments to the law based on the experience gained with the law in recent years. The aim is simply to adapt the occupational injury scheme further to the Greenlandic community. The adjustments ensure that it becomes clear that the occupational injury insurance is obliged to replace the costs of the injured citizen if the citizen is safe in Greenland. It is also provided that the Centre for Occupational Injuries may allow external tour operators to travel and stay for injured persons. However, it is still the insurance company or the occupational disease insurance system that pays the costs. Finally, it is made clear that it is the State, the Self-Government and the self-insured municipalities that are themselves paying for the treatment of their own cases, which are administered by the Danish Labour Damage Board and the Danish National Board. The consultations have expressed a desire to maintain a six-week review period instead of changing it to four weeks, as is known in Denmark. The reason is that there are a number of settlements in Greenland that only receive and can send mail once a week, and weather conditions can further delay the complainant's letter of appeal. We should, of course, take this into account in the legislation. Since the aim of adjusting the law is to better adapt it to the particularities of Greenlandic society, I am pleased that this has been taken note of in the draft law. In the Social Democratic Party, we are aware that there is support for the bill both in the Landsting and in the Greenlandic Self-Government, and that is why the Social Democrats can also support the proposal. At the same time, I must point out that the alternative also supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145126	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145132	Thank you. I shall be very brief. L 27 is, as the Socialist rapporteur has said, a number of technical adjustments to existing legislation on occupational injury insurance in Greenland. As mentioned, it is adjustments proposed in the light of the experience gained with the law introduced in 2011. The organization is among other things: a clarification of the rights of injured persons who are insured with sickness in Greenland, a more flexible administrative basis for the Centre for Occupational Injury, as well as some clarifications and linguistic corrections. All in all, it is always sensible to reconsider existing legislation. This is what you do with L 27, and we support it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145221	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145230	Thank you. As you know, the original law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland was introduced in 2011. At that time, the starting point was to make necessary adjustments to the law if there was a need for it all to ensure that the occupational injury scheme in Greenland is integrated in the best possible way. Today we have a legislative proposal which contains precisely such adjustments in relation to the original law. The adjustments are proposed on the basis of the experience gained by the Danish Labour Damage Board with the administration of the law and with occupational injury insurance in Greenland. More specifically, as has already been said, it is proposed that it should be clarified in the law, so that it is clear that occupational injury insurance is obliged to replace the costs of injured persons, as well as that provision should be made to allow external tour operators to travel and stay in connection with medical examinations, etc. We in the Left believe that it is very sensible to make these adjustments because they ensure that the law on occupational injury insurance is adapted to the best of Greenland's society. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. We must also state that the Conservative People's Party also supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145351	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145356	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can support the bill as, in our opinion, it only contains improvements and, in particular, only improvements for those who are exposed to an occupational injury. We would like to begin by commending the Minister for having taken into account the answers to the hearings and meeting the Greenlanders' desire to maintain the six-week deadline for complaints. It is in Denmark for four weeks, but there are good reasons to set it up to six weeks, and although there was a debate on it, we think it is reasonable that the Minister has determined on the six weeks. We think it is very positive that, unless injured persons have recovered in advance, they should be paid right up to the day on which compensation is paid for loss of earning capacity. We would very much like that rule to be transferred to the Danish sickness insurance law. It is sensible to allow travel agencies to arrange travel and accommodation for doctors and injured persons in connection with investigation and treatment. We agree that the resources of the Centre for Occupational Safety and Health at Work can be used better than to arrange journeys and stays. It is also positive that Greenland's Self-Government should be involved in laying down rules for the handling of complaints. A precondition for our being able to support the proposal is, of course, that the Greenlandic Landsting can support it, and they have done so, and that is why the Enhedslisten can vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145528	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Steen Holm Iversen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145540	In addition to the comments made by the other rapporteurs on the proposed legislation, which we also note, we are generally of the opinion that draft legislation on Greenland should be acceptable as a starting point to Greenland's Landsting and Self-Government. And that is exactly what is happening in this particular case, and we are therefore fundamentally in favour of the draft law. We see that it is based on a real adjustment in relation to the reality that prevails in Greenland. We have also taken note of the very few answers that have been given in relation to the legislative proposal. What is basically the intention of this is to make the Greenlandic occupational injury scheme more up-to-date and to put it better in sync with what is the needs of Greenlandic society, thereby improving the service and legal certainty of the citizens of Greenland. That is an obvious argument for the Liberal Alliance to support this proposal. The proposal before us, as we see it, consists solely of technical amendments, which is why we can, as a starting point, support the proposal and look forward to the other discussion in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145701	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145711	Thank you. We have just had a few misunderstandings in the alternative about who took this, but since we consider it to be pure technology and we can hear that there is support for it, the alternative is also in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145728	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145737	Thank you for the floor, President. I shall also be very brief and on behalf of our Greenland rapporteur, Mr. Martin Lidegaard, say that the Radical Left also supports this mainly technical bill. After having had the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland for a number of years, it has proved to be working, but it also requires the minor technical adjustments mentioned by a number of previous rapporteurs. We support this in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145821	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for IA, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030145839	I thank you for the proposal to amend the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland. The proposal has been discussed in Inatsisartut, Greenland's Landsting, where a total of Inatsisartut has supported the changes. However, there has been a majority in Inatsisartut with the support of the Naala Suisut, who wants to maintain the citizens' right of appeal and the time limit for appeal so that it does not deteriorate, but that it remains at least six weeks old. It is positive that it has been listened to by the government, otherwise it would have been contrary to the political intentions of ensuring better integration of the scheme into Greenlandic society and the political intentions of improving the service for citizens. However, Inuit Ataqatigiit has remarked with amazement that the proposal was in consultation until 1 October 2013 and was only dealt with in Inatsisartut a year and a half later. We had this in mind when the item was dealt with in Inatsisartut, because we generally see that an update of Greenlandic legislation is a very long time in the process. This has the consequence that the legislation in Greenland is also typically delayed and therefore does not become up-to-date, and we need to get this right. But Inuit Ataqatigiit approves the proposals in the bill. With these comments we expect the government to rectify this and take note of it. I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150010	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond from Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150019	In the spring, a majority in Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, adopted this draft law amending the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland. Compared to the increased activity in the Arctic, it is pleasing that from the turn of the year you will have an updated law on occupational injury insurance. These are technical adjustments which will integrate the scheme better into Greenlandic society. I note that the Minister for Employment has listened to the recommendations to maintain the six-week complaint deadline in Greenland, with a more dispersed settlement pattern in Greenland, which sometimes leads to infrastructure challenges. I note that the State, self-government and self-insured municipalities must pay for the administration by the Centre for Occupational Damage of cases involving employees of the State, the self-government or the municipalities. I hereby recommend the proposal for a second reading in this form.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150121	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150131	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions during this debate. As can be seen, these are technical adjustments to the working injury system in Greenland. The aim is to adapt the scheme further to the conditions in Greenland for the benefit of citizens and companies there. As mentioned above, the bill has been adopted by Greenland's Landsting at the spring session this year. I look forward to a constructive discussion of the proposal in the Greenland Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150203	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150218	The debate is open. And that is the rapporteur for the Socialists, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, starting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150240	It is, of course, a re-submission of L 197, which we also managed to deal with before the parliamentary elections, but where the procedure was then interrupted by the parliamentary elections. This is about the Equal Opportunities Board, and this is something that we MEPs have discussed several times in the media first and foremost. There have been cases about everything from swinging clubs, knitting festivals, hairdresser prices and other matters in the more colourful end, and it has often been these colorful cases that have filled the most in the media. That is clearly what we have to note that the Danish media are interested in. It should preferably be at the lucrative end, although in reality it is not very representative of the cases that are being conducted and of the great amount of work done by the Equal Opportunities Board. That is why I think it is actually a good thing that we have this debate, where we are also focusing on the important work being done in the Equal Opportunities Board, because the work of the mentioned one is primarily about real discrimination cases in the labour market, in nightlife or elsewhere, and that is the work that needs to be strengthened with this bill. On the part of the Social Democrats, we are pleased that in March we managed to reach a broad consensus with a large number of other parties on the need to strengthen the Equal Opportunities Board. It is an important institution where you, as a citizen, can go if you experience discrimination, well to feel without having to have money out of your pocket. It has been important for the Social Democratic Party that it also continues so that everyone has the opportunity to have their case dealt with, even if you have no money in your pocket. We are pleased that the agreement and the legislative proposal ensure that when you complain to the Equal Treatment Board you have a legal interest in the matter. This ensures that you cannot just sit at home on the couch and be offended on behalf of others and then lodge a complaint on that basis. I also believe that this means that we will have more cases sorted out at the more colourful end, which I started by mentioning, and it will also facilitate the work, that the Chair of the Equal Opportunities Board will in future be able to decide for himself in cases where there is a firm practice. Then there are the matters of principle which can be difficult to bring forward as an individual. An example of this could be that we have also discussed in the media these special rules for male educators in certain day care institutions which limit their ability to do their jobs. That is why it is important and an important step forward that, once we have adopted this bill, the Institute of Human Rights will, hopefully, have the competence to bring to the attention of those cases and other cases of discrimination which are of public interest. Social democracy supports the bill today. We did the same last time we discussed this in the Parliamentary Chamber. We welcome the fact that with this bill we are strengthening the Equal Opportunities Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150531	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150556	Thank you, President. As has been mentioned once, this proposal is, after all, a re-submission of a proposal that fell in connection with the parliamentary elections. What is proposed in concrete terms is that the work of the Equal Opportunities Board should be targeted in cases of complaint, and it is therefore proposed that those who complain should simply be directly affected, so that you cannot simply pass by a lady hairdresser and be outraged at the fact that there is a difference in prices for men and women. In this way, we ensure that we get some real cases and that the Equal Treatment Board does not have to spend time on a whole lot of matters that people are not really involved in. From now on, the resources of the Equal Opportunities Board will also be given priority. This means that a President can be used to make a decision in cases where there is some kind of precedent. In this way, resources are also targeted at the important and the heavy issues. As has also been mentioned, the Institute for Human Rights is also given the opportunity to bring cases of a fundamental nature. It is precisely the one with the men and discrimination outside the daily institutions that has been raised in the media, and such a case will now be brought before the Equal Treatment Board, even if the male educator himself has not brought it before the Equal Treatment Board. The Danish People's Party supported this before the elections, and so do we today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150722	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030150737	Thank you for the floor. Today, when we first deal with L 28, the draft law amending the Equal Treatment Board, it is not the first time that we have heard that we are dealing with the need to amend the Equal Treatment Board law. Only in May was the same item on the agenda in this Chamber. The draft law here is a consequence of a broad agreement between the parties of the Danish Parliament concluded in September 2015, i.e. a decision on the targeting of the Board's work. With the agreement and now also with the bill, the work of the Equal Opportunities Board must be targeted and focused on real equality issues, and that makes sense. Because we have seen examples of cases which I think can rightly be questioned as to whether they belong under the auspices of the Equal Opportunities Board. Let me give you a few examples: Men's access to knitting festivals, different prices for haircuts at hairdressers, women's roofs at hotels or gender-defined entrance to swinger clubs, yes, the examples are many. Equality for us in the Left is a fight for freedom and rights and is not about men and women being the same. Equality is about equal rights for everyone. That is why I am delighted when, for example, Kvinfo takes initiatives and invites to events and activities that can in various ways strengthen ethnic minorities'... minority girls' opportunities, that's a hard word. Unfortunately, we are experiencing incidents in which people are discriminated against because of ethnicity, for example, and that is for me to see far more serious than, for example, the situation. price differences on men's and women's clippings. It is precisely in cases of discrimination that the Equal Treatment Board can make a special difference. Back in 2009, the reason for setting up the Equal Treatment Board was to improve the scope for complaints in cases of discrimination within and outside the labour market and to create more uniform access to complaints. In this way, all cases of discrimination were brought together. And the interest in complaining to the Equal Treatment Board is intact. While the name received 194 cases in 2009, yes, it was 350 in 2014. In future, the Equal Treatment Board will only have to deal with a complaint if the person complaining has an individual and a current interest in a specific case, that is to say that he or she must be affected himself; he or she must have been at the swinger club himself or participated in the knitting festival, so that he or she can now hold on to those examples. On the left side, we have a political desire to look at the possibility of introducing a rule on fees in order to complain to the name, on the one hand, to make the scheme look like other similar arrangements, and, on the other hand, to believe that a small fee will have a preventive effect on the type of complaints the name receives. If the system, which we support in fact, is to be evaluated in two years' time, it would be natural for the matter to be re-examined in due course. The draft law involves last but not least amendments so that a member of the Board of Equal Opportunities shall be able to decide on cases where a firm practice has already been established. This means that resources will in future be given priority to the most complex cases, rather than spending their energies on matters of a more trivial nature. As something completely new, the Institute for Human Rights is being given the opportunity to bring cases before the Equal Treatment Board. These are, in particular, cases which may have a public interest in relation to unlawful discrimination, but where no citizen has yet raised the matter. That too is a positive and important step. Against this background, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151131	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151135	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge that the agreement is firm, even though there have been changes in ministerial posts, rapporteurs' posts and so on. It is good that we can agree to strengthen the name. The reason I asked for the floor is because the Left is proposing to introduce a little more user charges in this country and also user charges in order to be able to complain to the Equal Treatment Board. I just have to say that I certainly very much disagree with the Left and with the Left's ambition to introduce more user charges. I would like to hear: What do the Left and the government think it should cost to complain to the Equal Treatment Board? I'm happy it's free. I think it should cost 0 kroner. I'd like to know what the Left thinks it's gonna cost. Then I want to hear something else. For the rapporteur's speech says that it will limit the number of complaints, and it can of course be somewhat worrying if it limits the number of real cases of discrimination. So who really is being restricted? Are they the ones who have a lot of money, or are they the ones who do not have much money?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151246	Now it is a well-known fact that exactly the fee discussion has also been raised in the last session, and I know that the former rapporteur for the Left, Mrs Fatma Öktem, in her rapporteur's speech, last time it was discussed in May, proposed a fee of DKK 500. I would like to say here that we have not determined on the level of fees, but we are talking about a fee of the order of magnitude so that the scheme will be similar to other schemes that we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151313	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151315	With 500 kroner. we can be a part of it. I think most members of parliament will be able to participate there, but there are also people in this country for whom 500 kroner. will be what will keep them from complaining. Whether they have been discriminated against in the workplace or in the nightlife or where they have been discriminated against, taking 500 kroner will be necessary. out of the monthly budget, take them out of the pocket, be what keeps them from complaining. Does the Left not see the problem of the fact that there is a part of the population that we are refraining from using this system of complaints?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151355	I think there is something that is important to stick to, and that was actually our starting point in proposing a fee at the time. As the rapporteur himself said, we have seen some cases of, what should be said, triviality. The rapporteur himself mentioned several examples, and I have filled up a few more examples on that street. I think it is very important to take the work of the Equal Opportunities Board seriously and to allow them to deal with real equality problems, and that is precisely why we are here in the Chamber today. It is in order to allow the Equal Treatment Board to deal with real cases rather than cases of less equality importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151437	We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151454	In the Enhedslisten we believe that the Equal Treatment Board is an important institution in the work to ensure equal treatment in Denmark. No human being should be discriminated against on grounds of sex, race, colour of skin, belief, political opinion, etc., but equal treatment is not confined only to the Equal Treatment Board. We want equal treatment to be given priority. Our approach to equal treatment is limited not only to the name, but also to all other areas of society. This applies to social, economic, housing, media, etc., and there is enough to tackle. In Denmark, we neither have equal pay nor are we free from discrimination against ethnic minorities or homosexuals. The draft law on the amendment of the Equal Opportunities Board is a step in the right direction. This bill amends the requirement to lodge a complaint. It is a person who has an individual, current and concrete interest who has the opportunity to do so. This will strengthen the decision of the Council as a guide. It is a good thing that the Equal Opportunities Board focuses on real equality issues rather than lame ones of a curious nature. This will clearly strengthen the decisions of the Council as important. At the same time, it is also important that the Institute for Human Rights should be given the competence to bring cases of principle and of general public interest to the Equal Treatment Board. This ensures two important things: on the one hand, that cases which the individual victim of discrimination cannot or dare to travel but which are important to the public are raised and, on the other hand, that major cases of principle can be brought before the Equal Treatment Board. At the same time, however, it is essential to ensure that the Institute for Human Rights has the means to carry out this task as well. There have been cases of men who are not allowed to change diapers in the crèche, and there have been cases of white home help. These are important matters of principle, so I am also glad that we have convinced the Minister to give the Foundation the opportunity to raise matters. At the same time, I think it is a good thing that the Minister emphasizes in the consultation note that in future there must also be an opportunity to address general questions to the Equal Opportunities Board, an opportunity which many trade unions use. When it comes to administrative simplifications, which must support the fact that the name uses its powers for new and fundamental decisions, we agree that decisions can be taken by the President in cases where there is a clear, firm practice, either in the courts or in the court, i.e. decisions of a similar nature. With these comments, Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151743	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Steen Holm Iversen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030151752	We are now debating a draft law on the Equal Opportunities Board, L 28, and it is, as previous rapporteurs have said, a re-submission of a draft law which was in the last session. The legislative proposal now before us has not changed significantly in relation to what has been discussed once. The bill was originally derived from a debate in 2014 and at the beginning of 2015 on the functioning of the Equal Opportunities Board, and this was, as has been mentioned earlier, a debate that was characterised by many colourful cases. I don't want to tire the hall recounting them again. But it was also a debate in which we were very much involved. In fact, it was we who began to question whether there should be a de minimis limit to the handling of complaints by the Equal Treatment Board in the wake of the series of cases described in the press. As we also stated at the first reading of the original legislative proposal, we in the Liberal Alliance are of the opinion that the model that has been created is not necessarily the model we would have liked or proposed. However, we recognise that there is a desire to do something to change the way the report works and to combat discrimination. There should be no doubt that illegal discrimination is totally unacceptable and that we therefore agree with and welcome the attempt to strengthen efforts. After all, the task of the Equal Opportunities Board is to safeguard the interests of the citizens and the legal certainty of the citizens. However, we have been in a situation where it has been a little unclear whether, in fact, it was the role which the mentioned took place, albeit perhaps a little unfairly, when you get to know what the mention is actually doing. It is clear that, in our view, it is not the task of the Equal Treatment Board to deal with cases on a regular basis and on the basis of complaints from outsiders without really demonstrable legal interest, because in reality some people are bothered by their ordinary day-to-day activities in trying to run a business, organise a knitting festival or develop specific products for specific customer groups such as a woman's roof in a hotel; finally, it was difficult to find a really wrongdoing. The task of this board is, as has been said, to safeguard the interests and legal certainty of citizens where they have actually been discriminated against or violated, where they are in a situation where they feel that they want to do something or have not had the opportunity to do anything about the discrimination or the violation they have suffered on the basis of their sex, religion, ethnicity, sexuality or whatever it may be. But it is important that we have a look at the amount and nature of the complaints that come into the board and the way they are dealt with. Unfortunately, it is not enough just to feel offended or discriminated against. Although it may be a real experience for the citizen, there has to be a real legal platform, even in the Convention sense, to operate on. We therefore believe that in future committee work we will have to go in and look at and work on how we actually define discrimination, so that we also have both motive and action incorporated into the current definitions. We know this principle from other parts of the legislation as well, and it is a principle which can also be applied in the context of the Equal Treatment Board. Nothing really distinguishes this area from others in legal terms. Many examples of real discrimination can be given. We can take apartheid, where there were two benches and everyone had an opportunity to sit down in principle, but since one was reserved for blacks and the other was reserved for blacks, there was, of course, real discrimination. Another example is from today's Denmark, that of hairdresser prices, and I would like to say that I believe that there is no discrimination. It may in fact be a practice or custom in which one has arranged one's business in relation to a given customer group and segment. And the real question was whether there was a wrongdoer or whether the person concerned could not just have gone somewhere else. It wasn't, in fact, about the hairdresser demeaning women, putting them lower, putting them back in line or discriminated against them. There had only been a product adaptation. The knitting festival is just one of the many examples where you can question what the motive was and what the purpose of going into that matter really was. It seemed like a humane fit for both wife and husband, so that one could exist together and together participate in a knitting festival. But there are a number of cases that never reach the board. We have already discussed and mentioned the case of the male educators, so I will not go ahead with it. The proposal's demand for the introduction of a legal interest in complaints is mentioned as quite fundamental in the proposal, which we also support. We would have liked to have seen a fee, as this would, in our view, help to identify and make visible the de minimis threshold mentioned above. Last but not least, we look forward to the committee's work with clarity on the missing definitions in our view. With these words, I should like to say that we support the draft law and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152326	There is a request for a brief comment, so the rapporteur must remain on the floor. It's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152334	Thank you. Now I learned more about what the Left wants it to cost to complain to the Equal Treatment Board. You think it should cost 500 kroner, and I myself think it should cost 0 kroner, and it may be that there are some voters out there who think it is interesting to know what the Liberal Alliance thinks it should cost? Let us give an example here: there is one who is rejected in front of the discotheque because of his skin color and who wants to go home and complain to the Equal Treatment Board to try the case. What does the Liberal Alliance think it should cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152406	Thank you. I do not want to stand here and make figures. We therefore agree with the approach already adopted by the Left, and we believe that a fee can have a preventive effect, not in the sense that it challenges or calls into question the complainant's legal interest in raising the complaint. However, in order to be able to focus on the handling of cases by the Council, we believe that this would actually be a measure that could create that particular focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152435	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152437	It is quite obvious that a fee will have a preventive effect, and you can say that the higher you set the fee, the fewer complaints there will be. You can just put it to the top, and then you can shut it down completely, because then there will be no complaints. The question is how we sort out the complaints. With the legislative proposal here, we are trying to do so on the basis of a professional assessment of which complaints are relevant and which are irrelevant. When the Left and Liberal Alliance decide that there should be user charges, you will sort out who has money and who does not have money. Can't the Liberal Alliance, despite who now supports you, see that there can be a social dimension in who you sort out and that it can be inappropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152526	Yeah, I can see that. And, like any other mechanism we have in this country, a mechanism can surely also be incorporated which allows a disadvantaged citizen to either be exempted from or pay the fee if he is in such a situation that it will prevent the citizen from complaining. So we are open to that, and we think that this should be looked at in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152550	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. And then it is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152600	Thank you. The area of equality is an area that we take very seriously in the alternative. This applies to equality between men and women, as well as to equality between men and women, for example. minorities and majorities, and this will be an area with which we will be working very proactively in the present Assembly. Then the respective rapporteurs are warned! In relation to the current draft law, it is, as has been mentioned earlier, an agreement that has already been concluded between all the parties of the Folketing, and therefore it is obvious that the alternative also supports this bill. In particular, we are very pleased with the element of the draft law which gives the Institute for Human Rights the competence to present cases to the Board of Appeal, which has an interest in principle or which is on behalf of a larger group. I would like to make one comment on the factuality, professionalism and relevance of the complaints. That has been said earlier, among other things. when this bill was put forward under the previous government that the intention was to minimize, one might say, trivial matters in the mention, and I even think that the former Minister for Employment, Henrik Dam Kristensen, said that we should minimise the number of silly cases. And to that I think it is important to state that this bill is, of course, about whether you as a citizen have the right to bring a case because it has an interest in principle or an individual and current interest. And it's the case in this bill that, in the future, you have to have an individual or current interest in a case. We support that as such because it is in the legislative proposal. But I just think it is important that there is no such thing as being able to say anything about the de minimis in a case. After all, the citizen still has the right to bring the matter before the citizen, which is topical or individual and relevant. When I say that, it is because I think it is really important that we do not send out a political signal as to what we think are trivial matters and what are not trivial matters. For the individual citizen, a violation can be serious at the moment when he or she experiences the violation of his or her rights. So if you wanted to set a trivial limit, you might have had to introduce a passage into this bill which said something about it being of considerable disadvantage, for example. for the citizen, as is the case in the European Court of Human Rights. We have chosen not to do that here, and we are quite comfortable with that. I am just saying this because I think it is important that we do not send out a political signal that we should be wise about the level of trifles or silly cases. Then I would just like to say in conclusion that with regard to fees, in the alternative, we are very pleased that it is still free for citizens to bring cases, and we will never vote for it to cost anything. With this, I would just like to reiterate that the alternative supports the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152911	Thank you to the alternative rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen on behalf of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030152925	Thank you, President. I have also been working for a long time on this bill and this area, so I am happy to stand here now and, on behalf of the Radical Left, support this bill which was already put forward while the previous government was in office. It is about focusing on the work of the Equal Opportunities Board, but to a large extent it is also about giving the Institute for Human Rights the opportunity to take up matters proactively. We have been working for this for many, many years in the Radical Left, so I am very pleased that it is now part of the work that is part of the whole work of equal treatment. Hence the full support of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153020	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153037	From a conservative point of view, it was very much needed to revise the legal basis of the Equal Treatment Board. It is absolutely essential that the foolish cases mentioned by several rapporteurs do not take up our time, but at least equally important that they do not take up the time of the Equal Opportunities Board. And by the way, they shed some unfortunate light on the whole equality debate, which I think really is damaging the view of equality in Denmark. I have met many people who have asked me: are there really no major problems? And yes, there is, so it's too bad these cases have been allowed to fill so much. That is why we took an active part in the negotiations. We can support the proposal now before us, but it should not be a secret that we would also have liked to see individual elements drawn up differently. For example, we would like to see a fee paid for a complaint which, of course, would have to be reimbursed if you were successful in your complaint. The fee did not have to be large in any way. The purpose is not to get any more money in the Treasury. The aim, however, is to ensure that people think twice before starting the whole complaint process. It also costs public money. There are, of course, already other public complaints boards, where it is also the case that a fee is levied to ensure that it is the right cases that are being dealt with. And then I'm sure I'll be allowed to elaborate later on what kind of cases these are. But for us, it is therefore a matter of making room for the really important issues to be dealt with, and we are doing so to some extent with this bill, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153217	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153230	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the kind treatment of the bill to target the work of the Equal Opportunities Board. After all, the proposal will give effect to the political agreement reached by the government with all the parties of the Folketing in September of this year. The agreement is based on the agreement reached by the previous government with all the parties of the Folketing in March of this year. It is therefore also a re-submission of the bill that was tabled and first examined before it lapsed as a result of the parliamentary elections. After all, the aim of the draft law is to give the Equal Opportunities Board better opportunities to use their resources with a focus on real equality problems. Thus, the draft law will only deal with a complaint if the complainant has an individual and current interest in a specific case. The draft law makes the work of the Equal Opportunities Board more targeted. The government would also have liked us to have gone one step further and introduced a payment scheme to complain to the name, but there has been no support for this in this process. As you know, the new rules will have to be evaluated in two years' time, and if it turns out that the amendment of the law does not have the desired effect, we in the government believe that it would be natural to review the proposal for the introduction of a payment scheme. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to further consideration by the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153403	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153407	I understand on the Left that it is the government's ambition about approx. 2 years of time to introduce a fee to complain to the Equal Treatment Board, and I understand that it will then be 500 DKK. Or so. I myself find this worrying, and I fear and am absolutely convinced that it will sort out complaints and make fewer complaints. But it is not necessarily the case that it will be a better tool to combat discrimination, either in the labour market or in the nightlife or elsewhere. Now that the Minister himself is already thinking about it, the Minister also has plenty of time to think about it before the Left introduces this fee, this stupid fine, to those who intend to avail themselves of their right to complain to the Equal Treatment Board. Can the Minister not now be a little worried that the wrong ones will be sorted out, namely those who do not have 500 kroner? Are you prepared to throw at a complaint, but who in reality has a good cause and has been discriminated against either in the labour market or in the nightlife or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153512	No. Firstly, I have said that we are building on the consensus that exists today, and secondly, it is only in the situation that the legislative proposal does not have the desired effect on the basis of what we are working on now that we will return with a fee. Thirdly, of course, you should not pay a fee if it is the case that you get the right in your complaint, and a fee must always be at a level where appropriate, so that it does not prevent anyone from complaining for financial reasons, but only ensures that thought is given before a complaint is made. And we need to be aware that nothing is free. So what a complainant doesn't pay for himself, other people pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153556	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153557	But how do you make that cut? Because, as the Minister himself says, it is now the Minister's ambition to set the fee at a level that does not prevent anyone from complaining. However, the aim of introducing the fee is to prevent some from complaining; it is that there should be fewer complaints. So there's something here that doesn't add up. What's it like to make that cut? I don't suppose 500 kroner. means something to someone with ministerial salary or to a heavy business boss or anyone else. There's 500 kroner. I don't care if you're tranquilizing. That is not what prevents you from complaining if you feel discriminated against. But the 500 kroner. may well be what keeps a kid or a kid who has been rejected in a discotheque from complaining, even though he actually has a case • the fear of having to pay the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153644	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153645	We have only one objective here, and I can hear that is a common goal. This is the goal that the complaints that come to the Equal Opportunities Board are relevant complaints. That is only the objective we have. We do not want to prevent anyone from complaining for economic reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153700	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151030153716	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 3 November 2015, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
