ParlaMint-DK_20150409100003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 162 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to withdraw Act 108 of 19 March 2015 on reinforced anti-terrorism action). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150409100052	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409100112	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 40 by Morten Bødskov (S), Søren Pind (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Helge Vagn Jacobsen (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF), Mette Bock (LA) and Lars Barfoed (KF) and can be voted now. Is there anyone who doesn't look registered? That does not seem to be the case. Then we shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. That is why the proposal has been adopted. Proposal for adoption No V 39 of Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) has lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409100347	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to comment on this matter? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409100434	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409100504	The debate is open. This is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409100539	Thank you. If I have understood correctly, the proposal that we are going to deal with now is quite similar with proposals that have been put forward earlier, not later than B 11, which was put forward in the last session of the Assembly, and I wonder if today's debate will remind us of the discussions that have taken place in the past. I can already start by saying that the government cannot support the proposal here. At the same time, I would also like to say that when it comes to convicted foreigners, there can be no doubt whatsoever that the foreigners who come to Denmark and use our hospitality to commit crime must be expelled if they can at all. And it goes without saying that convicted foreigners who have already been expelled from Denmark must, as far as possible, of course be transferred to serving in the country from which they come. If, however, we cannot support the proposal here, it is because the Ministry of Justice considers that the resolution will not contribute to the transfer of several convicted foreigners to the country of origin, and that is, of course, the purpose of the resolution. When we look at the issue of working for a review of the EU framework agreement and the rules in this area, I would like to draw the attention of the proposers to the fact that the EU rules that apply today are subject to the Danish legal reservation. Therefore, Denmark will not be able to participate in the adoption of new EU rules in this area, and any new EU rules, even if they are better, will not apply to Denmark if necessary. In this way, we risk, and here I would like the proposers to listen very carefully, to fall outside the existing cooperation in Europe and thus be left without the means available to us in the legal policy to transfer convicted foreigners to serve in their country of origin. I am absolutely convinced that this is not the intention of the proposal here, but I hope that we will listen when I say today that Denmark will risk falling outside the already existing cooperation. Many of the proposers and we in the government agree that we must get rid of the reservation in the area of justice. Denmark must be part of the core of European cooperation, not least in the field of police, but as long as there is a legal reservation, I would not recommend the resolution here because we are simply in danger of being completely outside the scope of European cooperation. I have written about the issue here to the new Commission, and in a letter at the beginning of March, the Commission informed me that 22 Member States have currently implemented the EU framework decision on the transfer of sentenced persons and that, according to the information provided, the other Member States are in the process of implementing it. It goes without saying that all countries must join so that the rules can work all over the place. In this context, I have also noted that the authors of the motion have stated in the explanatory statement that it is problematic that, among other things, the Commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the proposal is properly implemented. Lithuania has not implemented the Framework Decision, and I can inform Parliament that Lithuania has implemented the Framework Decision and that Lithuanian legislation in this area has entered into force on 1 April 2015. In addition to these two points, the proposers suggest that we in the government should enter into bilateral negotiations with relevant countries both inside and outside the European Union, which should mean that foreigners who have yet to serve as long as one month of the sentence imposed can be transferred to serve in their country of origin. I think we need to be realistic on this point. At any rate, it is considered by us to be quite unrealistic that a number of countries should commit themselves to more than we have been able to reach agreement on at European level. And I have not been able to find any examples of others having made that kind of agreement. If they exist, of course, I would very much like to hear about it. In addition, I would also like to be allowed to dwell very quietly on something that is not often part of the discussion on the transfer of sentenced persons. Of course, many countries, including Denmark, demand a court decision when foreign prison sentences are to be enforced. We do that in Denmark, and so we do it in a number of other countries. That is one of the reasons why there may be a delay in the transmission of sentenced persons. That is why, I believe, we also have to be realistic and practical, because when there is to be a court decision in the country of origin, it will very rarely be possible to effect it here in one month, as is proposed here. We're gonna work on this area, that goes without saying. I believe that the European framework is the right one. In addition, of course, we will continue to have a series of bilateral contacts to ensure as good cooperation as possible with those countries which unfortunately have a number of citizens who come to Denmark either to commit crime or during their stay commit crime. In addition, I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that, in 2012, the government concluded a multi-annual agreement, including with some of the proposing parties, namely the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. Part of that agreement was to strengthen efforts to ensure that more exiled foreigners can be sent out of Denmark for serving in their home country. Some clear objectives have been set for the handling of cases by the authorities: this applies to the duration of proceedings, and this applies to the number of transfer cases relating to expulsions to be brought. There was also a special Task Force Return which is located in the Ministry of Justice and which aims to ensure such smooth and effective handling of cases here. In connection with the establishment of the task force there are now bilateral contacts, among others. with Lithuania, Poland and Romania. These are countries where, unfortunately, many citizens are in Danish prisons. In addition, there have also been bilateral meetings with Serbia and Romania in order to strengthen cooperation with those countries. If we look at what is actually going on in the case of sending foreign servings to serve in the country of origin, then it is going exactly the right way, because where only a few convicted people were sent out under the former government, we have actually managed to get the figure quite nicely in the right direction. We are by no means in the finish line, but it is going the right way. Finally, perhaps just a few words also on the proposal for urgent treatment in the courts of foreign criminals. I understand the point of view. The only thing I would like to say in this connection is that it is now a proposal that comes forward with a great many forms of crime. I think we agree that we want young people through our legal system as quickly as possible. We have seen terrorism in Denmark a short time ago; there we have an interest in it being dealt with quickly. Think of the women who are being raped, the people who are being subjected to violence on the streets and streets, the women who are being beaten by their men. There are, in fact, quite a lot of forms of crime that we want to deal with quickly, and that is why I would just like to warn against saying in individual areas that we want urgent treatment here, because that means delay elsewhere. Therefore, as far as this point is concerned, my call will be for us to look at the whole chain of criminal proceedings together and to look at how we can reduce the length of proceedings both for the sake of the victims and, in fact, the rest of society, but also for the sake of the perpetrators or the suspected perpetrators, because there may be some who are innocent who, of course, need to have their cases settled quickly so that they can move on with their lives. May I not just say in the end that I am pleased with the interest of the Folketing in relation to foreigners who commit crime in Denmark. I would also like to say very clearly that I simply find it incredibly difficult to understand why one chooses to commit crime when one comes to Denmark as a guest, as a foreigner, is properly received by Danish society and by the Danes and uses that stay to commit crime. This is a problem for all of us; it is a problem for foreigners who do not get even worse when foreigners who commit crime in Denmark are expelled and then return in spite of a expulsion sentence and commit new crime. Here's an area where we need to be on our feet. We should not in any way be reluctant to send people out both for serving and for being expelled from Denmark. However, I am not sure that the tools and methods proposed in this proposal are the right ones. Personally, I would be very concerned about the prospect of Denmark risking getting out of existing European cooperation, even though the intention is good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101523	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101527	Thank you. It is such a pseudo-explanation, such a legal explanation, the Minister for Justice says why this proposal is rejected, and I am rather sorry about that. We have one more reservation, and if we work to change the rules, we risk going out. Then you cannot use your EU membership for much in the legal field, and it is very strange that the Minister is actively working for the PNR register, which is also something that is reserved. The Minister is very active, and our Danish influence must really be exercised. The minister goes out with the big tab, despite the fact that it is reserved. I just want to ask the Justice Minister what's the difference between this and the PNR record? Both are reserved. The Minister of Justice here warns against saying a single pip in Denmark when it comes to serving in the home country, but when it comes to the PNR register, we must assert our influence. Is this not just a huge double standard on the part of the Minister of Justice, which conceals the fact that we really do not want to deal with the major problem we have with foreign servings? Foreigners in Danish prisons are to serve in their home country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101632	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101633	I would like to ask a question back, because why on earth should a Danish Minister of Justice, whoever he may be, have no interest in foreign convicted services in the country of origin. Why on earth should I have as a goal, as a goal, as an ambition, that foreign criminals who have nothing to do in Denmark should fill up prison places or sit in our detention houses? Does the Left not think that I would rather use the funds in the Department of Criminal Services for the preventive, re-socialising effort to ensure that there will be less crime in Denmark? Does the Left really believe that any politician in the current government would want to fill Danish prisons with foreign criminals? The answer, of course, is no. All I am appealing to is for us to have a practical, realistic discussion of which instruments work best, and what I can see is that significantly more criminal foreigners have been sent out under this government than under the previous one, so there is some indication that the instruments that have been put into use are actually the right ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101734	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101737	Thank you. The Minister of Justice is proud of the work that has been done. I don't think there's much to be proud of. Out of 290 EU citizens in Danish prisons in 2014, the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Criminal Welfare have sent out 31. That's 290 versus 31. Does the Minister of Justice consider that it is a particularly impressive number sent to serve in the home country in 2014? That's 31 out of 290.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101806	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101808	I haven't talked about anything being impressive. I certainly haven't used the concept of being proud either. What I note is that it is going in the right direction, and what I note at the same time is that this is an extremely difficult area. After all, the Left will have to deal with the fact that more than the previous government has succeeded in sending out today, and that is why something has to be done in the right direction. This is a difficult area because, unfortunately, in some of the countries where there are citizens who also travel to Denmark and commit crime, there is not the necessary willingness in my view to make things slip quickly, and there is, of course, the right framework for European cooperation. Because it must and must be the case that EU countries will of course take their own citizens home if they commit crime in another EU country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101855	Mrs Mai Mercado, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101859	In other words, one can hardly say that it is going in the right direction when it is that one returns fewer in 2014 than one did in 2013, according to the answer given by the Ministry of Justice to the Danish Parliament. But I would just like to ask you something: what has happened since this debate was held last year. Neither the Minister participated in it nor I participated as rapporteur, because I was not the rapporteur then, and the Minister was not a minister, but what exactly has happened since last year's debate? Because I understand that it is also said that it is very important and that we must, of course, do something. But if not much has happened, it suggests that you have been sitting on your hands and that you have not wanted to ensure that you have sent more of them back.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409101946	But there is simply something in the discussion that I do not understand, because, as I said before to the rapporteur of the Left: what interest should I, as Danish Minister of Justice, have in the fact that foreign sentenced people are not sent to serve in their country of origin? They occupy expensive Danish prison places. In addition to the fact that we have criminal justice services which must punish and sanction if we do not comply with the common rules of the game laid down in society, the whole purpose of the Danish criminal services is to do rehabilitation work, so that more people turn their backs on crime and get a life of jobs and education. But the whole of the rehabilitation effort is made more difficult when there is a sitting and unfortunately there are so many foreign criminals in Danish detentions and prisons. What interest should I have in those people not returning home? That is a strange point of view to make in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102037	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102039	No, because this can only lead to one conclusion, and it's absolutely nothing. Because with the non-answer that was just given to this Chamber, we can see that the Ministry of Justice has done nothing to push, to ensure that the criminal aliens we actually have return home, and the problem is that these criminal foreigners see it as a win-win situation. If they get away with crime, they are happy, and if they go to a Danish prison, they are happy too, because it is not as bad as if it is that they are sent home, and they know that the likelihood of being sent home is not very great. I think there are a lot of people sitting there who think that the Ministry of Justice and, by the way, the Minister are sitting on their hands. It must be possible to make more decisions to ensure that the criminal aliens we have in prison are more exposed to home where they come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102128	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102130	Yes, but the way in which more people are sent out is, of course, working with those countries that unfortunately have citizens who are criminals, among other things. in Denmark, so they take their citizens home. But may I not also remind the Conservative People's Party, which held the position of Minister of Justice under the previous government, that today there are significantly more criminal foreigners being returned than there were then, a bourgeois government in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102152	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102155	Thank you. As I hear the Minister, the Minister is also concerned about this problem and believes that it is a problem for Denmark that we should all actually stand together to deal with if we otherwise agree that it is such a major problem. It is a pity, then, that the Minister is using most of his speech to point out why the Minister cannot now support it here. So the obvious question is, what's up? What, then, is the Minister going to do when we see in a statement from May 2013 that there are 417 foreigners serving in Danish prisons who are filling up heavily? Only a few of them come back to their homeland. One thing, then, is to troubleshoot this motion for a resolution, Minister. But what will the Minister do about the problem? I think that would be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102244	Firstly, I think it is important to remember each other that many of the criminal or potentially criminal foreigners in Danish prisons are in custody. After all, we cannot return in custody, because in custody people are waiting for a judgment to be given in their case in Denmark. So the group, which is the large group, should be taken out of the equation. Secondly, I believe that this is the European road we must take. I would very much like us to have stricter, stricter rules at European level, but I also choose to look at it in such a way that the prerequisite for us to get it is for us to get rid of our relationship. We can stand in Denmark and say: if citizens come from one EU country or another and commit crime in Denmark, they must return. That is also my view. However, if we are to succeed, this is the European path we must take. In other words, we must maintain proper contact with the countries concerned, but we must also ensure that EU rules are improved. In that we do not disagree. It's a question of how and when we do this the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102350	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102354	Yes, but the European road is the one that has gone down, and that means that we have to note that in Denmark, in the words of the Minister himself, we have a problem that is too big in this area. That is why the fact is that we must then try to go as far as possible and think differently from just leaning on the European road, which means that we are in Danish prisons and perhaps even think that it is a fantastic good stay in Denmark, which is totally unsatisfactory. The motion for a resolution here points to the fact that we have to stand together to do something about this, and that is why I would like to mention once again that it is a pity that the Minister is making more troubleshooting this here instead of coming up with solutions and pointing out where the Minister might be willing to do something more than has been done so far. Too little has been done, because otherwise we wouldn't have had these figures, which is why it's still an obvious problem for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102444	Well, the problem cannot be discussed, it can be discussed, but the fact that there is a problem cannot be discussed. Because that's a problem. It is a problem that we find that there are so many foreigners who come to Denmark and commit crime. It is a fundamental breach of the contract that you enter into when you come and visit our country and our society and are, moreover, taken incredibly well. It is also a problem that we do not have the sufficiently effective organisation at European level to have them repatriated quickly so that they can serve in their country of origin. We are just dealing at the same time with an area where things are a little easier said than done. For example: I believe that the proposer knows that the proposal that everyone should be able to be returned after a month is difficult to implement if there is to be a real review by the courts in the respective countries. And remember again that today there are significantly more people being sent out than when we had a bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102542	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409102600	The proposal we are discussing here today is not new, nor is the problem, unfortunately, because foreigners are coming to Denmark who are unable to comply with our legislation. Some even come for the sole purpose of committing crime. That is by no means fair. These people are not welcome in Denmark and they are never welcome in Denmark. This is precisely why, from day one, the government has focused on sending as many of these foreigners home to serve in their country of origin as possible. And in this regard, let me note, as I have also done the earlier times when we have discussed this proposal, that the previous government did not carry out this task very effectively. Two people were sent home for serving in 2010, while the figure was well over 30 in both 2013 and 2014. And may I not also note that it may then be surprising that neither the Danish People's Party nor the Left are included in the agreement on criminal justice, which has just focused on effective repatriation with Task Force Return at the forefront. We Social Democrats fully agree that those who can cooperate across the EU are the key to ensuring this repatriation, and it is therefore surprising that two of the proposers of today's resolution are opposed to joint EU cooperation. It is not fair that they should be in the Danish prisons on behalf of Danish taxpayers. Those who can be repatriated immediately must be deported immediately, and in this respect we Socialists note that the number of administrative exiles has increased considerably in recent years by up to 100%. When it comes to those who have committed such serious crimes that they cannot be expelled immediately, we Socialists are in favour of legal certainty. You have to be brought before a judge. The majority of foreigners serving in Danish prisons are in custody, and this group is therefore waiting for their case to be brought before a judge. So when the four bourgeois parties mention the entire group of foreigners who sit in Danish prisons, it might be interesting to know whether the arrest warrant is no longer to be brought before a judge. Is this proposal a new case law which must be broken with the basic legal principle that has been in force for our rule of law for more than 100 years? The authors of the motion for a resolution want Denmark to conclude bilateral agreements with the countries from which the criminals in question come, and in this respect I must point out that the rules in this area may well result in Denmark falling out of the existing cooperation agreements because of the legal reservation. The focus must therefore be on practical cooperation. And I note that the Minister for Justice has addressed the Commission, which has informed us that 22 countries have implemented EU rules and that discussions are under way, which will also be resumed this year, which is about ensuring that the last countries are included. It's the best way to make sure these foreigners come home and they're not in the Danish prisons. Let me once again make it quite clear: foreigners who can be repatriated. We need to keep up the pressure. It is not fair that they are in the Danish prisons. We must not invent all sorts of patchwork solutions and financial assistance for those countries that have a basic obligation to take their time off. They better take their criminals home, and as long as they don't, we have to keep pushing. And let me again note that there is evidence that our efforts are working. In view of the situation under the previous government, we will have far more homes today than we did just in 2010. Much more people are expelled administratively, but as long as there are foreigners who can be sent home and are not, we are not yet in the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103019	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103023	Thank you. Now the Minister for Justice said that she was not proud, but Mrs Trine Bramsen said earlier that she was proud of the agreement on criminal justice that was made, because it would ensure effective repatriation. I just need to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen if she can confirm that per. 1 December 2014 was 1,090 of the inmates in the Danish prisons foreigners. That's 30 percent. Of course it is true that some of them were in custody, but if you look at the number, you will see that 441 were in prison and served, and out of the 441 in 2014, you returned 31. By the way, it was 3 fewer than in 2013. And then I would just like to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen, who is so proud of the amazing deal, if she does not think that there is a certain room for improvement in a certain room, at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103112	The redberries are sour in many areas these days, and I think it is remarkable that the Left, which is not itself part of the criminal justice agreement, has just ensured that we have gone from two returnees in 2010, when the Left was responsible, to more than 30 returnees in 2013 and 2014, is so horribly annoyed. It is true that there are too many foreign servings in the Danish prisons, and if it were for me, there was not a single one, but just remember that the majority of the servings in the Danish prisons are under arrest. That is why I would also like to hear the Left, when the Left itself comes to the floor, whether the Left believes that one should break with the fact that one should be brought before a judge in Denmark. Is this a statement by the Left that you no longer need a trial?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103200	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103202	Mrs Trine Bramsen is welcome to ask if I am going to give my rapporteur's speech on behalf of the Left. I think Mrs Trine Bramsen knows the answer in advance, but fair enough if we are to be polemical. There are 441, serving per person. December 1, 2014, and 31 have been sent home, so there is a certain room for improvement. From Romania alone there were 42. I can tell Mrs Trine Bramsen that the reason why the Left was not included in the agreement on criminal justice was that it did not solve the problem. Once again, I would like to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen a question: is it any success when, last year, 31 of potential 1,100 foreigners in Danish prisons were sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103245	Let me repeat what I also made very clear four times in my speech: no, we are not there yet. As long as there are foreigners in the Danish prisons who can be repatriated, we must work hard to ensure that they are returned. It's not okay for them to sit here. But the solution is not to invent scams that do not have time on land and with which we risk falling out of the existing cooperation. The solution is to go through EU cooperation, stick to and maintain the pressure that the countries that have served in Denmark are to take back their servings. Then I have to say again: two people returned in 2010, when the Left was responsible, but over 30 in 2013 and 2014. It may not be a success, but it's better than what the Left did.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103330	Mrs Mai Mercado, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103334	I do not think anyone wants vuptifides, but, in other words, there is a proposal which is very specific. But now the Minister for Justice was asked just now what she has done since this proposal was discussed last year, and the answer was just a huge resounding: nothing! Then Mrs Trine Bramsen will be a little more specific and will say: well, we have been approached by the European Commission and we are awaiting implementation and some letters have to be sent. Well, I think that if some people are actually following this debate now, they're thinking: Wow, they can't take it very seriously in that government that we have some criminal foreigners that you want to send back to serve in your home country. All you do is send some letters back and forth to the EU, so get in the fight. If you cannot support this concrete proposal, which is otherwise very good, then come up with some solutions so that you can get those who are criminal aliens out of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103432	After all, it is to the credit of the Conservatives that they are, after all, part of the agreement that has ensured that far more foreigners than in the past are sent home. So I have to sign for the Conservatives to back that effort after all. I have to say that the effort being made is better than what was done in the past. No, we are not yet in the finish line, and if some people come up with a proposal to solve this problem, we in the Socialist Group are very much in favour of it. But the resolution we are debating today is just not a good proposal; it does not solve the problems. And that is why we Social Democrats cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103507	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103508	Well, that proposal here will certainly solve the problems. That is, if it is to be ensured that you can return to the country of origin by sentences of less than six months, then we are proposing one month, but then we can send much more back. If we ensure that the bilateral agreements and the agreements that allow them to be removed from the guard are concluded, then we will ensure that more people are sent back for service. For what we see today is that it is a win-win situation for criminal foreigners to come to Denmark. It is a win situation if it is that they are actually getting away with the crime they commit, but it is indeed a win situation if it is that they are caught, because they are not sent back to serve in their country of origin, but can move into the Hotel Gitterly in Denmark. And I have the impression that not many people think this is the great punishment at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103555	The proposal does not solve the problem. What Mrs Mai Mercado is saying here is that we should abandon the possibility of a real trial; that we should break with a legal principle that has been known in Denmark for centuries. We simply do not agree with that in the Socialist Group. The second part is about the bilateral agreement. As Mrs Mai Mercado has made clear several times, we are going to risk that Denmark will be completely out of cooperation and thus we will come back to zero and risk that we will not be able to send criminals to serve in their home country at all and thus we will have lost. Then come up with a proposal that brings about a real change, and we would be very happy to look at it, but this proposal does not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103642	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Susanne Eilersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103650	Thank you for that, President. New figures from the Department of Criminal Services show yet again an increase in the number of prisoners from Eastern Europe in Danish prisons. The figures show that Romanians form the largest group of Eastern European criminals. Latvia and Lithuania are also high on the list. Some of these three countries have concluded bilateral agreements between our neighbouring Norway on closer cooperation between the police forces in Norway and the countries concerned with a view to breaking up criminal cross-border activities. We should also take such initiatives from the Danish side towards countries where citizens are often sentenced and served a sentence of liberty in this country. I can understand from the Minister today that some agreements have been reached with Lithuania in connection with this framework decision from the European Union, and that is a good thing to hear. Then we must see whether the goodwill of Lithuania can also be seen in the increase in the number of citizens who will be returned in the coming years. The Danish People's Party wants Denmark to work purposefully to change the rules that the country of origin can refuse to accept the obligation to serve the convicted. Then the Danish People's Party also finds it problematic that there are many criminal foreigners who are not eligible for service in their home country, including those who travel exclusively on organised burglary in Denmark and they also come especially from Eastern Europe. The problem with Eastern European criminals is that it pays for a Romanian to go to Denmark and steal. The turnover of the benefits they receive can support the family at home, and at the same time they can stay in a single room in a Danish prison, sleep in a hot bed, have a daily bath and food three times a day • even with the opportunity to earn extra money. And it does not have the deterrent or preventive effect on a criminal when you see what conditions they come from in the country of origin. Even Kim Østerby, the president of the Prisons Association, believes, according to BT yesterday, that the only thing that will be a deterrent is that they come home and serve. In other words, the incentive to steal may not be so great with the criminal if there is a risk that he or she would be served in a prison in his or her country of origin and if the case was dealt with urgently so that the criminal would be repatriated as soon as possible. In order to meet the countries with which Denmark succeeds in concluding bilateral agreements, we require the government to allocate a pool of 20 million. kr. for e.g. building prison capacity. The pool must be financed through the small cost of the Crime Service, which will result from the increased number of returnees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103940	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409103951	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. I don't think my speech's gonna be that long. First of all, I am very much in agreement with the Socialist rapporteur, and then it is a return on the part of the bourgeois parties. We Radicals are also in favour of more foreign nationals serving in their country of origin. There are several advantages to this. First of all, we can save tax dollars, which is good. Secondly, it is often better for rehabilitation if you can talk to the prison staff, if you can have a visit from your family, etc. That is why it is important that we work to send more people out, and so do we, and the European Union already does. We're not there yet, but we're already doing it. Results have been achieved. In 2011, we only transferred two prisoners, and now we are, after all, significantly higher. However, the implementation of EU rules in this area is not yet complete, so I expect that figure to increase in the coming years. We Radicals want to work for this, but it is through the European Union that we must continue to work on the area. I do not believe very much in bilateral agreements when the European Union is already pushing, and we must therefore bear in mind that we are a small country, and so we do not have much pondus. We have more of that if we push through the European Union. I welcome the few points made by the proposers in the proposal for greater EU cooperation, etc. However, we must be aware that if we develop the cooperation too much, we risk that it will fall under our current legal reservation, and then Denmark will not be able to participate at all. It's a little funny, for example. The Danish People's Party, as supporters of the current legal reservations, is pushing so hard that we can actually get out of the cooperation of transferring prisoners. Of course, one can also just consider choosing to vote 'yes' in the forthcoming referendum on the reservation of law, because then we can ensure that if cooperation to transfer servings between EU countries is extended, we will still have the opportunity to participate. So, to sum up briefly, I would like to say that we share the intention in this proposal, but that it is not the right levers that the bourgeois parties here are proposing to turn on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104158	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104159	Thank you for mentioning parts of the proposal positively. I'm just gonna listen, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen, about sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen agrees with the Minister for Justice that when we have a reserved area, Denmark cannot say anything, because because of the changes that are made to some of the legal acts and framework agreements, we risk going into something we are going to get out of if we do not abolish our legal reservation. Does the Radical Left, which wishes to abolish the reservation of law, agree with the Minister that we should keep our mouths shut, that we should not negotiate at all, that we should not say anything at all or press for it, because then we could risk getting out of some agreements if we do not change our legal reservation? Is the Radical Left of the same opinion as the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104248	First of all, I hope that we will change our legal reservation so that we can also be involved in more supranational cooperation. I think that would be very good, and I would like to thank you for the agreement recently reached between the Left, Conservatives, the SF and the Government, to look at precisely whether we cannot change our legal reservation so that there will be greater flexibility. That is the first step. Once that has been taken, I think it will certainly be a more relevant question to look at whether we can expand the work. To get started right now, when we don't know whether Denmark can join or not, I don't know if it's right to use the resources of the Ministry of Justice. I have to agree with the Minister for Justice that it is certainly sensible to wait for the other side of a referendum to see whether it is possible or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104334	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104335	Thank you. But can the rapporteur then explain to me why we are working actively to influence EU policy in relation to this PNR register, which is exactly the same and which is also going to be reserved? Why are we working actively here when, at the same time, we cannot work actively in the country of origin? I mean, we're gonna get hit by the same thing. - Sir... Jeppe Mikkelsen explain to me and those who had to listen with what the difference is between the two things? For the EU mechanism is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104403	I don't know if I can. In other words, what we can at least say is that there are already a number of possibilities for developing the cooperation that we have, and it is also my impression that the Minister of Justice is contributing to it, but by keeping it at a level where we are not affected by our reservations. I believe that much will be done if the Danes choose to vote for the amendment of the legal reservation in no later than one year's time, because it will provide more opportunities for us to develop Danish legal policy when it comes to cross-border phenomena, as is the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104441	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104451	Thank you. I am explaining the SF's position on this proposal on behalf of the SF's legal rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. In the SF, we generally agree that foreign criminals must be sent to their home country to serve their sentences. This will make it easier for the convicted to serve their sentence when they are close to their homes and the surroundings they are used to, and at the same time we facilitate the Danish prisons, which are already pretty pressured. We have no offers that fit in our prisons that can be targeted precisely these criminals, and therefore they should not be here in Denmark after release either. We have had this discussion before, and it is still the case that the SF cannot support this proposal. As has already been mentioned in the previous rapporteur's speeches and by the Minister for Justice, we are already doing something in Denmark in this area. Procedure objectives have been set to ensure that there is progress in the procedure. We have set up a task force to ensure that this is done most effectively. In addition, we have created an exit department for the foreign criminals, as it makes no sense that those who have to be sent out should be offered in the criminal services. The proposers propose that we should allocate money to the reconstruction of prison capacity in the countries to which we transfer foreign criminals to serve. We do not think this is a good idea when we actually have some rules that aim that the country in question should, at the request of Denmark, take these inmates for serving. It is therefore the wrong signal to send out that we are going to give these countries money for something that they are obliged to do. The SF is therefore still unable to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104619	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104628	This is the third time in the last few years that we are dealing with this proposal. I have also found my old rapporteur speeches, and when I look down on those debates, I see that these are exactly the same arguments that are being put forward today. That is why I do not want to spend much of Parliament's time, but simply say that, as we have said many times before, the Enhedslisten is in complete agreement that it is best for all parties if a person can serve a prison sentence in his home country. This applies, of course, to the Danish prisons, but it also applies to the inmate himself, that serving near family and friends is actually better for rehabilitation. That is also why we in Denmark would very much like to welcome our own citizens if they are convicted of a criminal offence abroad. Sometimes we even fight diplomatically over long, long periods to bring our own citizens home and let them serve a prison sentence at home. We are also very interested in distributing the prison places geographically around Denmark, so you are near your family and friends when you are serving, because we know that it is best for rehabilitation. So we all agree that we want foreigners convicted of a criminal offence in Denmark who have been expelled to serve that sentence in their country of origin. We have among other things. Made a criminal welfare agreement that's trying to do better. There is an increase in the number of people who are actually being sent to serve in their country of origin. That is good and we are on the right track. Do we ever reach zero foreign servings in Danish prisons? I don't think so. Do we ever come down to the fact that they only sit here one month before they are sent to serve in their home country? I don't think so either. However, I believe that the efforts that are being made are good and effective, and I think we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104842	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409104852	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is a member of this resolution, which aims to ensure the possibility of contributing effectively to the conduct of serving in countries of origin and closer cooperation in the field of investigation and crime prevention. In this area, the policy of the Liberal Alliance is quite clear: we believe it is of great importance that more criminal foreigners are expelled from Denmark and that their punishment is done first and foremost in their home countries. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. According to the latest inventory from 2013, 417 were in Danish prisons. That problem has only become bigger since then. That is why it is important to make every effort to change that trend. Firstly, criminal proceedings against foreigners, which are considered likely to lead to a transfer to the country of origin, must be dealt with urgently in our judicial system. This proposal naturally follows on from the objective that specific cases of violence should be dealt with within 37 days. Secondly, the rules need to be changed so that sentenced foreigners who have not been served up to one month of a sentence are transferred to serve in their country of origin. Today, unfortunately, EU law means that the home Member State can refuse to open a transfer case if up to six months are missing. It is essential to put an end to this practice if we are to prevent criminal foreigners from developing harmful networks in Denmark during serving and if we are to ensure that fewer foreigners commit crime in the country. Thirdly, arrangements must be made to effectively support international cooperation in the home country of sentenced foreigners and to ensure closer cooperation to strengthen investigations and preventative action against cross-border crime. Such close cooperation is now known from Norway, where assistance is provided for the training and training of officials, including police officers, where police officers from Norway and the countries concerned cooperate more closely than otherwise in the winding-up of cross-border activities of organised criminals. The initiatives should, of course, be targeted at those countries whose citizens we have most frequently condemned and who are serving sentences of freedom in this country. Fourthly, we want to set aside 20 million. kr. to build prison capacity in the countries with which Denmark has concluded and conclude bilateral agreements for transfer to the country of origin. The United Kingdom has a similar programme, which continuously contributes to the modernisation of prisons and the training of prison personnel in relevant countries, against the possibility for nationals of the respective countries subject to unconditional prison sentences in the United Kingdom to return to service in their own country. We will finance the pool by means of the lower cost of criminal justice, resulting from an increasing number of transfers to the country of origin. So the Liberal Alliance is voting in favour of this proposal and we can see that everyone agrees on the problem. There is just a number of things that apparently do not want to do anything extraordinary about it, and unfortunately they are the ones sitting on government benches at the moment. We can hope that this will change, and that is why we note with satisfaction that the whole blue bloc is united on this resolution today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409105219	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409105229	Thank you, President. A great many words have been said in this matter, but it has in some way been the bourgeois ones who have made their views known. The motion for a resolution here is a re-submission, and there is indeed a very good reason for this. For us as conservatives, it is very important to stick to the fact that Denmark must constantly try to do everything possible and possible to send foreigners to serve in the country of origin. For many, it has become this win-win situation, where you either get away with committing your crime here in Denmark, it means that you get value, enrich and get away with it or, and that is the second win, if you are actually caught, you have a view of Hotel Gitterly in Denmark, which is something more lucrative than if you are sent to serve in your home country. So this win-win is going to have to stop. It is precisely for this reason that it is vital that more foreigners are sent to serve in their country of origin. And we also want a break with this six-month rule. Recently, there were again examples of foreigners who stole copper wires. Apparently, stealing copper wires is a lucrative business. At least they can be translated into a market. It's been seen several times that the criminal aliens who steal these copper wires are sentenced to mild sentences and actually get away with less than 1⁄2 years of imprisonment. So in addition to stealing and crippling a large part of our infrastructure with all the genes it has for ordinary people who are going to work, most have even calculated that they are going to take the punishment in Denmark, and they are willing to take that penalty. That is why we want the six-month rule reduced to one month and we want a general tightening up in this area. We also believe that it must be in the interests of the government to take tough action against foreigners who come to Denmark to commit crime. I think today's discussion could have been more uplifting. I think we see a government that sits on its hands and has no solutions. This is regrettable, and unfortunately it is an insult to all the Danes who are experiencing crimes committed by foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409105437	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409105456	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the debate that we have had here today. It is important that we at least in the bourgeois parties discuss what we are doing about the unfortunately growing problem, that foreigners are filling more and more in crime statistics and, as a result, are filling more and more in prisons. The latest figures we have per. 1st December 2014 • shows that nearly one in three, about 30%, who sits and serves in the Danish prisons, is a foreigner, i.e. one in two. non-Danish national. And that's a number that's increasing. If you look at the number of people from Eastern Europe or other EU citizens in Danish prisons, it is a record number. We in the bourgeois bloc want to do something about this. We have wanted this since 2011, and we have wanted it before. And I shall be the first to regret it and say that we could have done much better in sending criminal foreigners to serve when we had government power. The reason we didn't do anything about it was because we didn't have the EU rules we have today, and it's hard to use something you don't have. But of course we could have done more. However, I am similarly disappointed that the present government does not seem to want to do any more. They say that you want to do more, but when it comes to action, it doesn't happen anymore. An agreement has been reached on criminal justice, and when it was concluded, it was said: this is a success, which leads to a great many serving in the country of origin. And we saw a slight increase in 2013, but then again a fall in 2014. And it is therefore a fact that out of the small 300 inmates from other EU countries who are in Danish prisons, 31 were returned last year. It's nothing to be proud of. There's a huge room for improvement. That is why, in the bourgeois bloc, we have tabled this resolution, which contains a large number of elements relating to the need to improve EU rules, but also to conclude bilateral agreements with a number of the countries from which we have a very large number of servings. From Romania alone there are currently 42 serving in Danish prisons.This shows the latest figures that we have here that should be serving in Romanian prisons. I would say that I think it is a pity that the Minister for Justice chooses to say that we cannot push for this in the EU system, because then we risk changing the framework agreement so that we are hit by the Danish reservation. And I also think it is quite double standards by the Minister for Justice, as the Minister for Justice says when it comes to the PNR register, that is to say the register of air passengers, which is exactly the same thing, where Denmark is also affected by our reservations, that we have to negotiate there; that is very important, and we even need to use that as an argument for abolishing our legal reservation. I would then say to the Minister for Justice that it would be reasonable to do the same in relation to serving in the country of origin, in other words to press for improvements in the rules so that they actually work and to use it as an argument for abolishing our legal reservations. I think that the resistance of the Minister and the Ministry to doing this is really concealing the fact that this area is not a high priority; this register of air passengers is very important, but it seems to me that this area of service in the country of origin is less important. And I have to say that in the civil service, at least in the Left, we do not share that priority. I also think it is quite unfortunate that we have not seen any new initiatives by the government in order to ensure effective service in the country of origin. This agreement on criminal justice has been concluded, which has set a wide range of procedural objectives for making foreigners serve in the country of origin, but no impact has been set, and that is why the Left did not sign up to the agreement. The Left wanted us to have a rule that x number of foreigners who are in Danish prisons and which it is possible to send home should be sent home. This was not what was wanted in the negotiations. Instead of a procedural objective, we must say that the procedural objective has not been a huge success, since only 31 last years were sent home, out of approx. 1.100 The small third of foreigners who sit in Danish prisons and fill up. Why is this place of serving in the home country so central? After all, it is a growing problem with foreigners who are not serving in their country of origin, but in Danish prisons, and we see that that is where the crime challenge is. And I just want to mention two stories about foreign criminals who have been interviewed and tell about what it's like to sit in a Danish prison. One is a Romanian inmate named Jackie who was interviewed in Berlingske a few years ago. He was in Vestre Prison in Copenhagen, and now he's done serving. It says: But the Romanian prisoner in the cell on the east wing now prefers the Danish prison anyway. And then he says, let me be honest. This is a hundred times better than a Romanian prison, says Jackie. It continues: so far, according to his own statements, he has been imprisoned in Spain, Bulgaria, Germany and Romania. This is the third time he has been behind bars in Denmark, and this time for violation of an entry ban. In Vestre he waits for his expulsion and a one-way ticket to Romania. And then he says, and now I quote again, "But I'll be back, you can be sure of that." And why is Jackie coming back? He does so because he is allowed to serve in a Danish prison where, in parentheses, one can earn more in freedom by lifting one's employment obligation than one can in freedom in his own country take a quite ordinary job. That's why he's coming back. Has the government done anything to change this? The short answer is: No. We can take another example. It is also a Romanian who has been sentenced to 3 years in prison and who has a permanent entry ban in Denmark for having committed 24 hours 24 weeks of forced entry into Danish homes. It doesn't bother this Romanian who lets himself be interviewed for MetroXpress. He says as a call to other criminals in Romania: Go to Denmark, I say to them. Go there and do crime. It's easy and lovely. It's easy and lovely! And it's a person who's sitting there doing business. It is a person who was to serve in a Romanian prison and not in a Danish prison. And until we make rules that make these people serve in the prisons of their home countries until we have rules that make them properly punished for their crimes, they will come back, and then we will see that it is a growing crime challenge in Danish society. And in the Left and I think I speak for the other civil parties we will not put up with it. We are not buying that it should be a success to send 31 out of potentially small 300 EU citizens home. It's not a success. There is a significant room for improvement. And that is where we must press, both in the EU track and in bilateral agreements. Is it possible to push on in the EU track? Of course it is. Where there's a will, there's a way. Is it possible to push on the bilateral track? Of course it is. Norway, which is not a Member State of the European Union, has made a bilateral agreement with a Baltic country, helping to build a prison service. I think it is even a 'youth prison' and has been given an effective opportunity to return people from Norway to that Baltic country. I think it's Latvia. We must then do the same in Denmark, but that presupposes that those who have power also have the will and not only talk about doing something, but also do something. And I have to say that for some four years this government has been talking about doing something about this, but the results speak for themselves: just 31 out of 1,100 foreigners in Danish prisons have been sent to serve in their country of origin in 2014. There is a significant potential for improvement. We in the bourgeois bloc, if we were to get the majority, want to do something about that. I can promise you that here from Parliament's platform. It can be much better, but it presupposes not only talking about it but also having the will to act. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110329	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110333	I would like to ask about the use of figures by the rapporteur of the Left. I assume that the 1,100 to which the rapporteur constantly refers in his speech come from the inventory made on 1 January 2014, which shows that there are 1,019 foreigners in Danish prisons. It's fair enough that you round up to 1,100. That is an exaggeration, but we know that from the Left. But out of these people there are 580 in custody. Does the Left wish to break with the principle that one should be brought before a judge, so that the 580, that is, far more than half of the inmates in Danish prisons, are sent home without having been for a judge?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110413	I have to say that I actually use the answer given by the Ministry of Justice on 5 December 2014, which is said to be 1,090. If there is a new figure, of course I am sorry. But with the figure from 1 December 2014, it is small 1,100, namely 1,090, and I think it is fair enough to refer to that. At least the figure is increasing, as far as I am aware. Of course, with regard to people serving, they must have a proper trial, but when we have said that we want speed in the courts in these cases, it is of course so that they do not have to wait in custody for a long time. It is, by the way, as I understand it, the government's own policy that you should be in custody for as long as possible. One of the reasons why we are waiting is that there is a waiting period in the judicial system, and that is why we want to rectify it. Then we get people convicted more quickly, and then we can have them sent home to serve in their respective home countries more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110511	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110513	The rapporteur does not respond to my question. After all, it is the rapporteur who uses the figure 1.100. He says there are 1,100 people who should be sent home. But does the rapporteur think that the 580 in custody should be sent home without trial?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110531	We must, of course, wait for the judicial review that the persons concerned are given. But the sooner justice can happen, the sooner we can see whether they are guilty or innocent, and then they can be sent home. There must of course be legal certainty for foreign criminals. But that just doesn't change the fact that there are little 1,100, about 30%. of the inmates in the Danish prisons, who are foreigners. Then, of course, it is true that some of them are waiting for a verdict, and it may well be that some of them are innocent. I'm not gonna be able to refuse that at all. But I also believe that quite a few of them are actually guilty. There must be justice, but it must be justice that is done quickly so that, if convicted, they can be sent to serve in their country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110613	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110642	The debate is open. Mrs Karen Ellemann as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110653	The legislative proposal we are now considering is a good initiative which has just not been received correctly in the municipalities or at least has not been received in accordance with the intention in which it was sent. For the government back in connection with the 2013 Finance Act, a pool of 180 million has been established. kr. annual, to be targeted at dental care for particularly socially vulnerable groups. This bill then intends to ensure, on the one hand, that information is provided that this pool exists at all and, on the other hand, to reduce the own payment from the current DKK 800. 600 kroner. So you can say that, in isolation, it makes very good sense to go in and adjust some things if there is a pool that doesn't work. However, the entire establishment pool has been called into question, and we were in this way opponents and voted against when it was established, also because we were not part of the overall financial law agreement. So my position today will be that we are going to use the committee procedure to learn why this pool has not worked, so to speak. Why hasn't the money been spent? Something that is also important to get mapped out is: What actually already exists of different dental treatment options for exactly the target group that has a need? There are dental pools around, the municipalities already act in relation to helping very socially vulnerable to dental treatment. So we have to have the mapping, which is somewhere in the cross-section between social policy and health policy. We have to have that knowledge before we can just report out plainly and say that we're going to support this, because it's a piece in a bigger puzzle. So at this stage we are waiting and will be asking some questions about the committee procedure and will then, in the context of the report, take a position on what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110900	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409110921	Bad teeth are one of the things that most of us in this Parliament do not suffer from, and if we do, we get it fixed, but for those who live on the edge of society, having bad teeth is a very big problem. It is of course particularly a problem when you live on the edge of society and cannot afford to have the dental treatment that most of us in here just drive through the dance card to get done. We owe it to those who live on the edge of society a helping hand. Having bad teeth causes immensely poor self-esteem, and of course it is an obstacle to e.g. to be able to get a job or get stuck in the labour market when the first thing people see is black pieces when you try to smile nicely when you get into a job interview. So both in relation to people's social relations, associations and their own self-esteem and also in relation to the labour market, it is a really good idea and a really good investment for us as a society to ensure that the helping hand is given to the socially vulnerable. In fact, we decided this already in connection with the 2013 Finance Act, when we set up 180 million. kr. to improve dental health for vulnerable groups, but unfortunately the money did not get far enough, and that is why, in the context of the 2015 Finance Act, we have decided to make an adjustment so that we can get the money completely into the hair vessels in which they are going, so that they actually benefit the people involved. That's what we're doing with this bill. It is, of course, crucial that the money we drop off is not just on an account, but that it is actually spent out in the real world. I also think it is important to say that the way of the 180 million. kr. is to redistribute the user fee on dental care, so that those of us who do not have dental problems pay to those who have dental problems. It has been the case that you have actually been able to receive subsidies for two annual dental cleanings, even though you have perfectly normal healthy teeth, despite the fact that the health profession in this way only provides for a single one. So it has been money that has been spent in an inappropriate way and that will be much more beneficial if it is spent precisely on people who are at risk. So with this bill, we basically change three things. First of all, we are changing the limit for own payment, so that it will be 600 DKK in future. annual for all groups covered by the original proposal. Secondly, we are making a change which means that the municipalities' prior approval of treatments of more than DKK 10,000. is valid for 2 months even if the person with dental problems should be lucky enough to get to work on the way. It makes no sense for people to say no to a job, because then they can no longer afford to continue treating their teeth. So this is one of the points where the system really works counterproductively. Thirdly, we draw inspiration from the so-called Herlev model by obliging the municipalities to inform citizens, when they are still in contact with them, that they have the opportunity to receive this grant. For one of the absurd things about dental treatment is that very many of the vulnerable groups are not aware that they actually have the opportunity to access this supplement, and of course they must have it. So, in the context of their normal outreach work, the municipalities are obliged to point out that it is possible to obtain this grant. So what we're doing with this bill is making an extra effort on dental health for vulnerable groups, which is just a continuation of the intention of the Finance Act 2013. So, of course, the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409111243	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Karin Nødgaard as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409111257	A few years ago I visited a dentist-managed bus that took care of vulnerable citizens when they had acute problems with their teeth. I spoke to the dentist, who could tell me that his assistance was requested, and that of course impressed me. Because it wasn't the little dental treatments that were needed, I could see. Rather, it was many years of lack of dental examinations which had made its sad impression and which had made it quite impossible to imagine going to a dentist because of the high cost of a dental visit, especially when the damage has been done. Going to a dentist can for most people be a rather large financial printing, but for the least well-off people in Denmark it can be an incalculable expense, which then opts out. I actually think that many of these people are aware that it is a bad decision to drop annual or half-yearly dental examinations, but if, for one reason or another, savings are to be made, this particular area is probably one from which it is estimated to be a priority. There may also be those whose family or networks have not had a tradition of going to the dentist or who have not been raised to the fact that dental health is very, very important on an equal footing with everything else and must also be given high priority in everyday life. Actions such as the one outlined in this proposal will most likely lead more people to seek out the dentist and get the help that is needed, and that is of course positive. How many people are actually caught with the proposal is probably difficult to say, and that is why it is of course also important that we keep an eye on developments, even in relation to the obligation to provide information that will remain in the future. I would say, however, that there are also groups which are not covered by this proposal. There may also be people who actually have good dental health, but who, for unfortunate reasons, are affected, for example. aggressive paradentosis. What about them? I would also like to know whether the Minister has considered some forms of support for that group of citizens. Of course, I think it is important to focus on the health of vulnerable citizens in general, and also to look at the social conditions under which they live, so that it is, as it were, an overall effort in the area that is being practised in the future. There is no doubt that we in Denmark have challenges in improving conditions for the most vulnerable groups, and I really think that a great deal was done on the political side and, fortunately, with broad political support. However, I believe that we need a long-term solution and a greater focus on how to ensure long-term safety of the initiatives that are considered to be effective in order to improve the living conditions of those at risk. I can't help thinking about pool initiatives there. We know, of course, that the rate pool is a vulnerable pool which must help to support the vulnerable groups, but as both the size of the pool does not change much and no new funds are provided, we know that it is difficult to bet on it. That, of course, may also be, that is why the government has chosen to allocate the funds to this proposal under the great Finance Act. But what does the government really intend to do in the future? As Mrs Karen Ellemann and also Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil have said, the funds in this proposal are precisely those which have been allocated to the 2013 Finance Act and which have not been used. So my question is really: how has the cost of being at the level that they were estimated to be doing at the time when they actually turned out to be very different from it? In addition, it is also a question of how the government intends to finance it in the future, because these unused funds are also running out. So I really hope that the Minister will explain that when he gets on the floor. Finally, I would like to say that we had a similar proposal a few years ago, to which the Danish People's Party chose to vote yellow because unfortunately there were so many things in the same proposal. But at that time we explained, and we did so in our contribution to the report, that the well-being of the vulnerable citizens was very close to our hearts, including in relation to dental health. Unfortunately, there were some other things that we were not so much in favour of. But we are actually looking forward to the committee reading. As the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, there are some questions to which we need answers, and then we look forward to looking at how we will then plan for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409111705	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409111715	In fact, my Socialist colleague, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, has just said everything that I also have in mind. So maybe I'll just add that back in 2012 we're the Social Democrats, Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten... agreed to set aside money to strengthen dental care for people receiving cash benefits, etc. And we can now see that it has turned out that all the money has not been spent because we have probably not been quite good enough to get the bill together in the right way, and that is what we want to correct with this proposal. We have therefore agreed on a number of initiatives to ensure that the money actually goes out to work so that the people who need it get their teeth fixed. We do this partly by telling the municipalities that they actually have to tell us about this possibility, when they are still in contact with these people, and partly by reducing the annual own-payment for people who are over 25 years old. So the Radical Left is happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409111824	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur for the SF, so it is Mrs Pernille Skipper, I understand, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409111844	Thank you. I would like to read out a speech on behalf of our rapporteur, Mrs Stine Brix, who unfortunately could not be here. Enhedslisten so best that dental care was part of the public health service, so it was not the wallet that decided whether or not to come to the dentist. That is why, in a number of budget negotiations, we have put forward proposals that reduce the user fee for dental care. This bill is part of an agreement between SF, Enhedslisten and the government to adjust the scheme for cheaper dental care to cash benefits recipients. The scheme came into being, as others have said, as part of the Finance Act in 2013. Unfortunately, the funds allocated have not been used in full. This suggests that the system has been too bureaucratic, that knowledge has been too small and that there is too high a barrier, because there is still user payment. Among other things: Altinget and Hus Forbi have documented that it varies quite widely from municipality to municipality, how many people benefit from the scheme. The Ankestyrelsen has also examined the area. Here, too, the conclusion is that there are significant differences in how municipalities each handle the scheme. Therefore, it is included in the agreement between Enhedslisten, SF and the government • although it does not require changes to the law • that a new guide be drawn up with suggestions to the municipalities on how best to handle the scheme. The draft law itself contains the three points which have also been mentioned by others: firstly, that the user fee is slightly reduced; secondly, that the municipalities are obliged to disclose the scheme to the target group; and thirdly, that a pre-approval is valid for two months. Of course, we can only support that. That does not change the fact that it is our wish that there should be a different approach. That is why I understand many of the consultation responses which point out that there may be a slight improvement, but there is still a long way to go. The Enhedslisten believes that there is a great need. We have a good opportunity to use the already known experiences from Herlev Municipality, where municipal dental care and public administration are used to actively increase the connection to preventive dentistry among the most vulnerable groups. And the results from Herlev are really, really good. That is why we will continue to work to ensure that more out-of-court work is done on the part of the municipalities, so that we can get a little more out of the violent inequality that we see with regard to the dental health of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112125	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112133	Thank you. It is, of course, part of the financial law agreement, and the financial law that we have now is based on a red agreement that the red parties are behind, and they have now found occasion in this bill to adjust a little on the content. So no matter how fine it is to have good teeth, and it is, we were definitely against the scheme, as it was part of the Finance Act, and we see no reason to change that here today, just because you adjust the rates a little. So the answer remains a no on the part of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112209	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112218	I'm giving this speech on behalf of Per Løkken, who couldn't be here today. After all, the bill is part of the implementation of the Agreement on the Finance Act for 2015 between the Government, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten. Conservatives originally voted against the financial bill because we thought it was a patchy solution, which thus did not create equal access to healthcare, by regulating social legislation as in that case. The government is now trying to repair this by making a new patch solution, where the only criterion for reducing the rate is that one is on some form of public service. In the Conservative People's Party, we are in favour of helping the weakest in society, but reducing user charges from DKK 800. 600 kroner. We do not see this as a solution to the overall problem, and we probably regard the proposal most of all as socialist symbolic policy, which is about responding to the criticism of the government's support parties. As a party, we have repeatedly called for the setting up of a tariff committee to carry out a comprehensive analysis of health tariffs so that, on a qualified basis, we can create equal access to health services • access that guarantees user charges where this makes sense and promotes appropriate behaviour in relation to the use of health services. A number of special arrangements have been introduced over the years which are inappropriate in a modern welfare society. After all, it is strange that if you fall on your bike and you hit your face, it is the public who pays, but if you hit your teeth, it is you who pays. That's why we want an overall solution and we're not excited about these patch solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112357	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112409	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank you for your contributions and for the support that has been given to the proposal. As several have also said, the proposal has been put forward as part of the implementation of the Agreement on the Finance Act for 2015. The proposal amends the rules on dental care grants to persons receiving cash benefits under the Act on Active Social Policy. It is really important for the government and the other parties to the agreement that the grant reaches the target group, so that we can actually help those people who need it. And it is particularly important that we reach out to the most vulnerable in the target group, who do not of themselves seek out the dentist or the municipality for help. The municipalities are therefore obliged to provide information on the possibility of dental supplements in connection with their outreach work to the most vulnerable groups. At the same time, the self-payment limit is relaxed, as several have also been mentioned, so it will be 600 DKK per year. for everyone, and the municipality's prior approval of dental treatment of more than DKK 10,000. It will be valid for two months, regardless of whether or not the citizen gets to work during the period. In this way we want to strengthen dental health, also with a preventive aim. Finally, it is part of the agreement that the scheme should be evaluated in one year's time, and I was also able to hear that there were others who said that we should follow this very closely. I would also, of course, like there was a request from both the Left and the Danish People's Party, to answer any clarification or in-depth questions in connection with the committee's work. I can tell the Danish People's Party that all types of dental problems are included in this bill, including aggressive paradentosis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112607	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112610	That is actually the last question I would like to ask, because I would really like the Minister to elaborate on it. In fact, I think that the Socialist rapporteur made it very clear by saying that if we have a problem with our teeth in here, we will get it sorted out. But I would say that there are actually a lot of people who may have an ordinary income, but if they are attacked by an aggressive paradentosis, they do not actually have the opportunity to get the help that some of us might think they should have. I would therefore like to clarify how the Minister feels this is connected; that it could be included in this bill if I have understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112651	I have a little difficulty in understanding the question, if I am to be honest, because this group is a special group. It's supposed that if this special group, which is an exposed group, gets this problem, it can be aggressive paradentosis, but now I don't know so much about aggressive paradentosis or otherwise get a dental problem, they're included. That's where the focus has to be. Then, of course, as the Conservative rapporteur said, there may be the whole idea of helping to use Mrs Karin Nødgaard's terminology to ordinary people, I think it was said, but that is a slightly different talk. Here's the most vulnerable groups we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112735	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112740	At any rate, I will choose to put a written question, because then we will be able to have complete clarity as to what the facts are in relation to it. I do not know if I was told ordinary people, but at least I mean people who have a quite ordinary income and have a quite ordinary life. After all, it can be said that the people who are in this bill do not, perhaps, because they have a lot of other social problems, as I explained in my speech. That is why I really want a more comprehensive picture of it and a solution in relation to the whole of the individual and so on. But I ask it as a written question. In conclusion, I would just like to hear from the Minister about the financing. These are unspent funds, but what has done to miscalculate the amount of money when the budget law was drawn up?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112825	Yes, it can be said that the estimate of the amount was wrong, but I think it is just as much about the fact that we have not reached the target group. And that is the way it is, and that is the way it is when we have negotiated the rate pool. It is not always that you hit precisely when it comes to people because people act very, very differently. And some of the things we have adjusted in the proposal this time are, of course, to try to get closer to this particular target group, by the fact that in their ordinary work the municipalities are also obliged to provide information about this possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112902	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112931	The debate is open. Sir. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409112937	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, like all sorts of other parties in this Chamber, we take very seriously the threat of religious radicalisation and extremism. After all, we see how Danish citizens and foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark travel to areas of Syria and Iraq controlled by the Islamic State, and this is a threat to Danish society. That is why we in the Left have in the past proposed a series of tightening up of legislation with the aim of clamping down on extremism, and it should not be a secret that we in the Left believe that the measures put on the table so far by the government are not entirely adequate. If it were up to us, we would go one step further in the fight against radicalisation and extremism. Having said that, I would like to sign for the government's bill here. That is both sensible and necessary. We recognise the need, of course, for preventive action to be taken in relation to those at risk of radicalisation. Similarly, we must be prepared to welcome people who want to leave the extremist environments. That is why it is equally sensible for local authorities to provide advice when a citizen approaches this proposal. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that local authorities should also be given the opportunity to seek out contact, because it goes without saying, of course, that preventive action against radicalisation and extremism cannot be built on and can only be based on voluntary calls from citizens. I think that would simply be naive to believe. That is why I am also pleased that the proposal has also opened up the possibility for the outreach work of local authorities in cases where local authorities consider it necessary to take the initiative to contact a citizen who might be at risk of radicalisation. It is clear from the draft law that it is essential that the citizen is motivated to take preventive action or to receive support to leave extremist environments. In this context, I note that in their response to the hearing, Aarhus Municipality is calling for clarification of the municipalities' options for action in cases where the citizen is not motivated to receive advice. And, of course, I very much agree that it is important for the municipalities to be clear about their options for action, because if they do not do so, then you risk losing the citizen on the floor and it is worth noting in a situation where the risk of radicalisation has been increased. It certainly sounds to me as a very serious and perhaps dangerous combination. Therefore, the nuances of municipal action should be clarified, and we hope to be able to do so in the committee's examination of the legislative proposal. All in all, the Left shares the concerns about an increased threat in Denmark caused by radicalisation and extremism, and we naturally support improved preventive action in the municipalities. That is why I dare venture one eye now and say that we support the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409113236	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Ole Hækkerup as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409113243	Thank you, sir. President. The Socialists too can support this bill. Extremism and radicalisation are basically a threat to the democratic values that we profess to be, in other words, first and foremost that each individual is unique in himself. It also means that no matter how much you know about a person, its background, social upbringing, all sorts of things, ethnic origin, what I know, you can never know in advance how people have chosen to live with the background they have. And that is precisely what is a fundamental Western and fundamental democratic value, namely that every human being is unique in itself. As has already been mentioned, it appears that this bill is part of a larger package against radicalisation and against extremism, and this must be seen in this context. As has already been mentioned by the previous rapporteur, the draft law means that the municipalities themselves can do outreach work, but also that they must advise and help those who themselves have recourse to it. There will, as it were, be a duty for the municipalities to do so. Some extended powers and, in particular, the outreach work I think will be very valuable. Again, I believe that everyone can agree that we must take stronger action against extremism, against radicalisation. It is quite obvious that this is one of the challenges we face as a society. This is just one of the initiatives. But together with police work and intelligence work, but above all also attitudinal work, it is in this way that we will ensure that the values we would like to have to influence Danish society will be stronger in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409113421	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409113429	There is no doubt that Islamism is the greatest threat to the values of Western freedom in these years, and that extremism in all forms is of course a thing. This proposal for prevention is, in fact, excellent and excellent. We can only agree with that. It is, of course, an advisory obligation which is clarified in relation to the municipalities, that is to say they have an obligation to help people who are entering extremism and want to get out of it. We can only approve of this. If we now call this the absolutely soft side, then we would like this to be followed up by some measures, some political initiatives, which then really went to the steel side in relation to organisations such as the United States and Japan. Hizb ut-Tahrir, namely that such organisations were banned, because it could actually also help the advisory obligation and could actually do that more people were seeking help and advice if a clear signal was sent about what they would tolerate and what they would not tolerate. But all in all, we think this is a very good proposal. It is, of course, part of the settlement that was made with the wagering parties, and we think that is excellent. That is why we are actually going to say yes to the proposal. Yeah, it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409113622	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409113635	There is a need to strengthen social prevention efforts towards children, young people and adults who are at risk of radicalisation. Radicalisation must be prevented in order to prevent some from being recruited into extremist environments and thus risk being marginalised, turning their backs on society and ultimately possibly constituting a security threat. This applies to all forms of political and religious extremism, be it right-wing extremism, left-wing extremism or extremist Islamist environments. In the pool, therefore, we agreed on a number of initiatives to strengthen prevention in order to avoid some becoming extremists, and also a number of initiatives to get people out of extremism again. We can see that recruitment is taking place more on the Internet and on social media, while an increasing number of people travel from Denmark to armed conflicts abroad. This requires that we go to the threat in a new way. There was a little Christiansborgfnidder in it along the way, which is why I am glad that we can stand here today, where, if I heard correctly, the Left obviously supports it. I appreciate that, because that means that we can get the money out to work. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409113800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409113806	The SF welcomes the government's proposal to strengthen social prevention efforts towards adults over 18 years of age, because whether young people or adults are at risk of radicalisation, this is something we must fight against. We must prevent radicalisation in order to prevent citizens from being radicalised and recruited into extremist environments where they risk being socially marginalised, becoming opponents of society and, at worst, constituting a security threat. SF therefore supports the government's proposal to strengthen the council's advisory efforts towards people over 18 years of age who are at risk of being radicalised or who want to leave extremist environments and groupings. We believe that this is, among other things, the case. will allow municipalities to continue measures already in place for young people by the age of 18. Municipalities and local environment play an important role in the prevention of radicalisation, and it is therefore gratifying that with this proposal we can strengthen the municipalities' business space, especially when it appears that 39 out of 69 municipalities have no action plan for anti-radicalisation. The advisory effort, as set out in the draft law, consists in the possibility for municipalities to do outreach work and organise counselling with a contact or mentoring scheme. We think that in SF is a good idea. We even think that such a contact or mentor scheme should include former Syrians or moderate Imams who can work with their motivation not to be part of radical environments. It is to be expected that citizens who are at risk of being radicalised or are already in the radicalised environments are characterised by a form of ambivalence and changing motivation in relation to their attachment. Syrian warriors, who have regretted their travels and have returned with scars on their souls, are credible in the environment, and can thus plead with extremism. The same applies to moderate Imams, which can help bring the radicalised back on track by giving them a different and more moderate interpretation of Islam. Unfortunately, the Danish People's Party and the Left rejected the proposal to use moderate imams to ward off extremism, but the fact is that you have seen that it works in Aarhus, where you have succeeded, for example. prevent more young people from going to Syria to participate in the civil war. The motivational work is therefore an essential part of the prevention effort. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409114020	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409114028	This is a fine and positive approach that we have here. It is, after all, about being able to give some support and some guidance to people who are at risk of being radicalised. To tell you the truth, it's probably a few people calling down to the municipality and saying, "I'm sorry, I think I'm getting radicalized, can you help me?" So you could be tempted to say that there isn't much pang in this bill. On the other hand, what the draft law should be praised for is that the municipalities are required to have a procedure for collecting concerns, because what may happen to a far greater extent is that family, friends, relatives and classmates become worried and call in. The fact that you have a procedure for what you do about it is really, really important, and the fact that the municipalities now have the opportunity to do some outreach work and react is really, really important. So even though one might not at first think that this is the most amazing and revolutionary bill, it is a positive bill, which Enhedslisten naturally supports. Like the SF's rapporteur, I would like to point out that it is problematic that when it was agreed here in the pool of rates and, as you know, Enhedslisten is not part of the list, it was decided by somebody, I think, half ideologically, mysteriously, that one should not cooperate with, for example, imams as resource individuals, and that it simply must not happen. I just want to say that we in Denmark have a model that is being practiced in and around Aarhus, which is one of the most effective things to be found worldwide right now. They write about us in other countries, they look at us in other countries because we may actually have something here that works. To start writing it off because you have some ideological problem with moderate imams is directly harmful and unspeakably and stupid. In general, I would say that this is funded by what is called the rate pool is also problematic. As you know, the bet pool is a pool of money taken from people who are affected by unemployment or who are affected by illness, so that they are constantly getting less and less money between their hands, and then they spend the money on some of the most vulnerable groups in our society until now to fight homelessness, for example, etc. However, the areas of the rate pool are also constantly expanding, and when you start spending money from the rate pool on something that should be a general social policy effort, for example. To make an anti-radical effort, then, you take money from vulnerable groups, and you also water down the projects because, as you know, it is not a fixed appropriation, but something that can change quite quickly. So the whole criticism of the rate pool becomes, I believe, only more relevant and more necessary when you also start funding such things as anti-radicalisation efforts through it. But, of course, Enhedslisten supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409114437	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409114450	In the Conservative People's Party, we support the bill. I myself took part in the debate on the rate pool, and I am very pleased that we had this money dropped off, because this is an important area and action is important. If we had been negotiating this back in the autumn, if we had known how timely it would have been now, we would probably have been somewhat surprised. So far, for example, very few people have used the exit programmes in prisons, and this suggests that more systematic work needs to be done with the whole area. In fact, we have seen that more than 60 people have been radicalised in prisons, so much so that they have been registered and yet a few programmes have been set in motion. This suggests that you can force the horse into the trough, but that you cannot force the horse to drink. It goes without saying, and this is the logical conclusion of it, that early outreach is extremely important, which is why it is also important that there is a focus on this in the municipalities. That is why we think it is quite right that, under the Service Act, municipalities are now obliged to offer targeted advice to those who are at risk of radicalisation and to those who have already been radicalised and who want to leave the environment. After all, Mrs Pernille Skipper mentioned whether there is a radicalised person who just picks up the phone and calls down to the municipality and says: Hello, I have been radicalized, can I not get help? I think that this is going on in a slightly different way, but I do not think that one should be blind to the fact that there may well be someone who, at some point, discovers that they have come out in a process that they cannot rein in and for which they simply can no longer stand up to, and who then actually wants to leave this environment, although they may not do so in the way that Mrs Pernille Skipper just gave a picture of. That is why it is absolutely crucial and I actually agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that the outreach work is being strengthened, so you just make this contact really early, so you get the contact sessions done and you get the mentoring arrangements done, even before we risk them going out and participating in holy war. I cannot help but say that it would be nice if the government were also involved in imposing an entry ban on the IS-controlled areas, so that there is a penalty for leaving without a valid authority approval. The bourgeois people have suggested this, and the government still seems to think about it. We must therefore constantly ask ourselves whether the efforts we are setting up are good enough and strong enough. We will also do so in next year's wagering pool negotiations. So far, Conservatives can back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409114728	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409114736	Thank you, President, and thank you for the debate we have had in this Chamber today. As Mrs Mai Mercado quite rightly said, much more emphasis has been placed in the municipalities on the prevention of radicalisation and extremism. I think that is a good thing, despite the fact that it is, of course, on a really, really sad background. In Denmark, radicalisation is seen as a risk behaviour on an equal footing with any other risk behaviour that may eventually lead to e.g. crime or social exclusion. Preventive action is therefore very much integrated into the general social and crime prevention efforts of individual municipalities. This means primarily SSP cooperation between schools, the social authorities and, of course, the police. In the adult field, it has begun to look at whether there are people at risk, such as: Psychic difficulties, and therefore the efforts in PSP cooperation are also really, really, very important, and it is the cooperation between police, social services and psychiatry that has also come into focus. However, the municipalities find that they generally lack concrete opportunities for action against people over 18 years of age, and an evaluation of efforts to prevent extremism and radicalisation also points to the need to ensure that local authorities are able to take action against people over 18 years of age. When we talk about early prevention, it is crucial that the municipalities, which have direct contact with citizens, have the necessary tools in the toolbox, and therefore the aim of the bill is to strengthen the efforts of the municipalities to prevent adult radicalisation. The bill clarifies the responsibilities of the municipalities in this area and allows municipalities to do outreach work. The municipalities are also given the opportunity to associate a contact person or mentor with the individual citizen. This allows both municipalities to initiate a much more targeted prevention effort in the adult field, but the municipalities will also be better able to ensure an appropriate transition of effort for people under the age of 18 when they are 18 years old. I look forward, of course, to the continued discussion of the proposal here in the House and will also, as usual, make myself available for any questions, as the Left also mentioned. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409115004	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00. The meeting is suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130005	I shall now resume the sitting. The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130028	Thank you. Today we are dealing first with a motion for a resolution to regard animals as living beings in legislation. Let me start by saying that, despite my sympathy for the starting point, namely that animals should be regarded as living beings, I believe that the proposal is at best superfluous and, at worst, perhaps directly harmful, in relation to what must be intended. There is no doubt that animals are living, sensitive beings and therefore, of course, should also be treated as such in the legislation. In fact, we already ensure this in Denmark through our animal protection law and in the European Union via the Treaty, where it stands directly. The English term is sentimental beings. I don't have a direct translation that does just as well in Danish, I think, but we usually say living, emotional beings. So far, so good. Then, of course, there is the question: okay, what about the type of legislation which is not designed to protect the animal but which is designed for another reason, for example. to protect the owner of the animal? How do you do it legally? In Denmark, it is chosen to do this legally by comparing animals with things. Does this mean that animals are regarded as things? No, we have already established that elsewhere, which I just referred to, so that is not the case. But that means that the owner of an animal is protected in the same way as if an animal had been a thing. Example: When a person owns a bike and someone carries out vandalism against that bike, we then have vandalism legislation, not to protect the bike, but to protect the owner of the bike. Similarly, if you own animals that have a value, it is clear that the owner is also entitled to protection. That does not mean that we should not protect the animal as a living, emotional being, but we should do so in another piece of legislation, not in the law of vandalism, if that is what we are talking about as an example. In addition, there are, of course, a number of things in, for example. vandalism legislation, which means that the level of protection as a secondary effect would be greater for the animal than if the animal were not also covered by that legislation. So, for those reasons, I do not think that this is a very good proposal and I cannot support it. Finally, however, I would like to stress once again that it is essential and important that we take these debates about animals being treated as living beings. However, I think it would be commendable if the Danish People's Party instead of this kind of little symbolic, as I see it, were instead to try to support some of the many very concrete initiatives that the government is taking precisely in order to treat animals as living beings in practice. There are, for example: the proposal which, unfortunately, the Danish People's Party could not support, which ensures that lakes no longer have to stand firmly in half their lives. It is a proposal that Animal Protection called the biggest animal welfare improvement in Denmark for 15 years. Unfortunately, the Danish People's Party could not support this. It has to be said that this is an example of how we actually did something which in practice meant that animals were considered and treated more like living beings, but which the proposers of this proposal could not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130441	There are a few brief comments, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130444	On the other hand, it can be said that the Minister for Food could not support the removal of the reversal of the burden of proof by the dog law, which cannot then be lifted. That would also have been a very concrete improvement to which the government said no. So I guess it goes both ways if you're gonna have to take a look at that case. Now this is about something completely different. I think it gives a really wrong signal every time you see that when you go out and kick a mailbox into pieces with your neighbor, it's vandalism. It's fair enough. But if you go over and kick your neighbor's dog, it's vandalism. So I think that a lot of owners out there, even though the minister says it's to protect the owners, don't understand. A few years ago, a police dog was killed. It was vandalism, too. Can the Minister not see that it sends out the wrong message to the public that animals are regarded as things if you go over and kick or abuse them? That is precisely what this is all about: we must send out a clear signal that we do not think it is right that living beings are regarded as things. They must be regarded as what they are, just living beings. You do that in France, you do that in Germany, and you do that in Switzerland. I think it is time for Denmark to come along and be a little more modern with regard to legislation, so we regard animals as something other than things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130554	Firstly, I would like to stress that it is beyond any doubt whatsoever that we have animal protection legislation in Denmark with derived, more specific legislation that ensures animal welfare, which is better than what both France and Germany have, not least because of the significant progress that this government has made. So I would say that if we are to approach the state they have in France and Germany, it will be a marked decline in animal welfare in Denmark. Then it is the argument that it is a little difficult to understand with all due respect to the proposers. In other words, one can make legislation on the basis of the basic premise that it should just be easy to understand and that in itself it is a criterion. I now have a slightly different view. It may be a little hard to understand, but then we'll have to be a little better at explaining it. Well, that's not true, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær says that because both a bicycle and an animal are subject to the laws of vandalism, one can equate those things. Because if you abuse an animal, a dog, for example, you can, of course, raise a case in relation to animal welfare legislation. You can't do that if you abuse a bike. On the other hand, the reason why an animal is also subject to, for example: The law of vandalism, that is, there is also the fact that people own animals, unless the Danish People's Party is in favour of people not being able to own animals and therefore should not have any kind of opportunity to seek compensation or such things. Unless you mean it, you will have some very negative effects from the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130743	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130744	Now the Minister refers to the fact that the Danish People's Party should want animal welfare legislation that is generally as in Germany and France. We didn't say that. That's not what this proposal is about. This is about treating animals as living beings and not as things. And it's not true that it won't be equated if you break a window and you're out beating up the neighbor's cat. Both fall within the scope of Article 291 of the Penal Code, which has a penal framework which can provide 1 year and 6 months in prison. Typically, you only get a suspended sentence and maybe a fine. Today there is a story on TV 2's website where you see a dog being run over intentionally by a neighbor. It's called vandalism. I really do not think that is fair, and we cannot really understand why the Minister for Food cannot see that it sends out a completely wrong signal, that it should be vandalism, that a dog should be driven over deliberately and that we should find another way of defining it in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130841-2	Well, I hardly know if I can express myself more clearly than I did before. The difference is that if you abuse an animal, you can be punished under the Animal Protection Act, and if you abuse a bicycle, you cannot be punished under the Animal Protection Act. If there are then some things which are not related to the protection of the bike and the animal, but which relate to the protection of the owner of the bike and the animal respectively, then that is another type of legislation. And if that legislation was repealed, it did not claim and said that vandalism law is only applicable to bicycles, not animals, then the owner of that animal will not be protected in the same way. Then I have to say again that it is then possible that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær would like to pick a little bit in it and say that there are some places where he believes that Germany and France have better animal protection legislation than Denmark. I would now like to look at this and prove it, because I believe that on all parameters we are more advanced than they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130950	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409130951	There is one point in the Minister's argument which I would like to clarify a little. Is it true that the Minister for Food says that the things that people own are better protected as things considered, and that it is more punishable to destroy them than it is to harm an animal as a living being? For that must, of course, be the consequence of what the Minister says, namely that if we did not, if I may say so, consider only an animal as a living being, it would be less protected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131024	No, I actually said that this type of legislation, such as this one. is about vandalism, is not linked to protecting the animal or the bike it may as well be, it does anyway, because it probably has a preventive effect but is linked to protecting the owner. And that is why it is clear that, as the owner of an animal which also represents a value, one can, of course, also have requirements and rights in relation to the status that one has with an animal, just as one has with a bicycle. That is just not to say that those things are still similar, because if you abuse an animal, unlike if you abuse a bicycle, then you can also be prosecuted in relation to another legislation, namely animal welfare legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131105	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131107	But the interesting thing is that the authorities seem to prefer to prosecute after the vandalism clause. Is it because it gives a more severe penalty than if you took the animal welfare clause, or what is the reason why you choose that destroying other people's things is more important than harming an animal as a living being?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131128	I am not sure that I share the assumption that the authorities seem to prefer to do so. It is probably a situational matter, unless there is a very specific case, as Mr von der Vring has said. Per Clausen wants me to relate to, or statistics showing one thing or the other. Then you can relate to it. But I do not think it can be pointed out that this is generally the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131156	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. We skip the Left and go to Mrs Karin Gaardsted as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131216	If you read the comments on this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, you will see that it is basically about general animal welfare here in Denmark. This is an important discussion which we in the Social Democrats always want to put up with, and there is no doubt that the welfare of animals is at our heart, because it is not right for animals to be miserable and it is not right for pets to live in decent conditions. Since we entered the government, that attitude has not just been empty talk. We have focused on improving animal welfare, so that makes a difference. This has meant that there are fewer pigs that are hacked, which have meant that Danish lakes are released for the vast majority of their lives • something that the Animal Protection has called the greatest progress for animal welfare for many years. Similarly, animal welfare has improved for cattle, chickens and mink, and we have tabled a bill banning sexual acts with animals. We have done all this because animals must be treated with respect and care and animals are entitled to a special level of protection, because they cannot resign themselves. That is the clear position of the Socialists. But let us look at the motion for a resolution. Proposers want animals to be regarded in future as living beings in legislation when dealing with cases where a person has done damage to an animal. But when you look at the current legislation, you see that the resolution will have no real significance, because as it is today, the legislation already takes into account the concerns of the proposer. Firstly, animals are regarded as living beings in the Animal Protection Act, which speaks of animals being protected from pain, anxiety and suffering, and of the physiological and health needs of the animals being taken into account. Secondly, they are regarded as living beings in the EU Treaty. Thirdly, there are already very sensible ways of punishing people who do harm to animals. So the proposal's wish is already covered in the current legislation, which is why I wonder what the purpose of the resolution really is. The Danish People's Party would like people who do animal damage not to be judged on the basis of a law where animals are mentioned as things, but we can well agree quickly that animals do not notice any difference, whether there is one word or another in the law, and that does not have much to do with animal welfare either. The conclusion must therefore be that the motion for a resolution is purely symbolic. That is fair enough if you want it, but I do not think we should make legislation here in the Assembly on the basis of what makes sense on the symbolic surface, because animals are not protected by symbolism. As I mentioned in the introduction, the comments on the motion for a resolution state that this is about animal welfare in Denmark. This is a sympathetic starting point, but when it comes from the Danish People's Party, it is also clear that the desire for animal welfare is sometimes expressed with two tongues. It was not long ago that the Danish People's Party presented an agricultural plan together with the Left and Conservatives in this Chamber. Part of the plan was about relaxing at the high level of protection we have when it comes to animal welfare in Denmark. In other words, animal welfare must be downgraded if it is for the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Conservatives. Quite frankly, I find it somewhat confusing that one of the proposals will put a hole in animal welfare and, with the other, will strengthen it. The Socialists are opposed to the motion for a resolution, which has only symbolic significance. The legislation already recognizes animals as living beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131606	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131608	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Karin Gaardsted for her introductory remarks that, of course, we would like to put forward a debate on animal welfare. I am just saying that, of course, it disappoints me that the Left, which should have been on before, does not come up for a debate on this subject. Of course, Mrs Karin Gaardsted cannot do that, but I would just like to mention it, because I think it is a pity that the largest party cannot find a way of standing up with a rapporteur. Mrs Karin Gaardsted is, of course, right in saying that animals are regarded as living beings in the Animal Protection Act, but what happens in practice is that it is the penal code that is used to judge by, and in it they are thus regarded as things. This is exactly what we want to do: that when you usually judge according to section 291 of the penal code, it means that animals are things on an equal footing with a shop window, a bike, a car, or whatever it may be, you break. And I simply do not think that is fair. So that is what I would like to hear whether Mrs Karin Gaardsted will not help change, because I understand that one agrees with the vision that animals should be regarded as what they are, namely living beings, in the legislation. But now that they are regarded as something else in the penal code, I do not understand what the opposition is about, that is why you do not want to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131727	However, I think that the Minister has given a very good answer to that particular question by saying that there are two laws that apply here. One is the penal code and the other is the animal welfare law. And that depends on whether it is something to protect the animal or something to protect the owner. Well, I do not see that there is any other way out of what a trial should be, regardless of whether it says one word or the other. And, as the Minister has also said from up here, it is a matter of protecting the owner in the case of animals such as things or animals which lose value or which may even have to be killed; then you are entitled to have the money so that you can buy yourself another animal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131813	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131814	It is true that there are two legislations, but what does it do when it is always the criminal law that is applied to animals that are then regarded as things? This is also the signal given to the people: animals are things. That's what we say in here as legislators that you can treat them like. And I think that is quite the wrong signal. Well, one hour ago, there was an article on the TV 2 News website, where you see a dog being run over on purpose. It's vandalism. I think it is obvious that it does not make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131845	Well, I have nothing more to add. I have answered that there are the two legislations that apply and that it will have the outcome of the legislation that is being judged.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131858	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409131903	Like the previous speakers, I would like to say that the intention of the motion for a resolution before us today, namely to treat animals properly and to regard them as living beings that we must take care of, not least when they are in our care, the Radical Left shares in full. If we cannot support the resolution today, it is because going in and doing what the Danish People's Party says will not change anything in the world. Yes, it will create a lot of bureaucracy; it will make you have to write a lot of laws about; it will make that there will be a lot more governance. And we don't think that's the right way to spend Danes' money. On the contrary, in the Radical Left, we think it is important to make real improvements in animal welfare out in the real world, and that is why we have set out to ensure free-flowing lakes, ensure that there are fewer dead pigs, fewer cows going in animal transports and various other things. But we are not in favour of symbolic legislation that does not move things in the real world. That is why we cannot support the resolution today. We are pleased that we have the Animal Protection Act, and that is what all legislation is hung up on........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So it is already the case today that they are regarded as living beings, and that is why we do not believe that we are going to make a whole new piece of legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132043	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132103	There is nothing but sympathy in this Chamber for the proposal, and that is because, when we are all talking about animal welfare, we are all incredibly united. However, when it comes to real legislation, especially in relation to production animals, I often think we see that the Chamber is divided. And that is also what my colleagues have said from up here in the past in relation to animal welfare, loose lakes, number of pigs per year. square meters, etc. There are a large number of areas related to agricultural production animals that I wish DF had a different attitude towards. I have no doubt about DF's attitude towards pets, but I wish DF would share SF's view that all animals have a value, including the animals that are in the farms. And I do not think that is reflected in the vote. We have not finally decided whether or not to vote in favour of this, but I have to admit that I think it is very symbolic in relation to the legislation we are constantly making in here that really matters. The Minister referred to this in relation to loose lakes and all the things that the Minister and a number of parties are trying to do to improve animal welfare among production animals, and I also think it is very symbolic to change the wording of the penal code when we have an animal welfare law. There are quite fundamental rights for animals. So, as such, we have nothing against this resolution, but we think it is incredibly symbolic in relation to a number of the other laws we are dealing with in here that really matter to animals. There are 24 000 piglets dying every day in agriculture because of a number of conditions. That's what we're gonna have to look at. We have to look at a number of the things that really bear something. We have two different laws. We have the Animal Protection Act, which ensures that animals have a value in themselves as living beings, and then, in the Code of Procedure, we have a provision on what should happen in relation to the owner who may be of the animals. So we have to see how this is going to develop, but every time DF comes up with some slightly symbolic proposals in this area, I also think it is possible to point this out when real animal welfare improvements are not then voted on. And I really wish that DF was more up on top when it comes to ensuring real improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132414	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132416	First of all, I would like to thank the SF for not flatly rejecting it and saying that you will take a position later. However, I would just like to clarify what it is that we should have examined in committee, which means that we should end up voting 'yes', or we should end up voting 'no', because that was not clear from the point of view. It is okay to say that you have sympathy for it and will take a position later, but we may now be standing right in front of a parliamentary election, which means that you do not have time to take a position on it, and that might be what was behind it. So what is it that we should have examined in committee before deciding whether it will be a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132447	What I'm saying from up here is that on this basis, when we're dealing with symbolic legislation that doesn't bat a lot in the real world, where you really don't have so much against it, but where what the minister was talking about can actually cause some other problems in relation to legal certainty, if something happens, if your dog gets run over or whatever it may be, it's very thin. One could wait until the law had to be changed and possibly improved, and say that let us look at it more carefully and see if there is anything that can be improved, and then one could also look at whether the language could be changed without the legal state suffering under it. So that's really just what it's all about, so this is changing a language without having any real animal welfare consequences; there's not much to say about it. If you could change language without changing people's legal position, compared to the fact that there must also be legal certainty if something happens to your pet I think it's symbolic, but if you could do it we wouldn't mind. However, as the Minister also mentioned, there is a risk of doing more harm than good, and I do not think that DF wants that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132613	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132614	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen refers to the fact that the legislation is about to be reviewed. However, this concerns section 291 of the Criminal Code, which has been the same for several decades, and, as far as I know, it is not directly faced with having to be revised, and so this is not just a matter of language. This is about creating a completely new definition, as they have done in Germany, in France and in Switzerland, which says that we should regard animals as living beings and not as things that are being done in the penal code today. So it is a good thing to refer to the fact that we have Section 1 of the Animal Protection Act, which says that animals must not suffer harm, but it is not the one you use to judge by, it is not the one you assess it from, because it is the penal code. So section 1 of the Animal Protection Act doesn't protect animals, because it's not the one you use and there's a lot of plurality and symbol formulas, by the way. No, it's section 291 of the Criminal Code that you use, where you assume this animal is one thing. It's the owner's financial loss, it's estimated that it's the owner's loss of an item you use here, and I just think that's completely wrong. There we should just tighten up and say: an animal is not a thing; it is therefore a living being.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132717	Now I didn't say that the law should soon be revised, but I said if you thought it was a good idea to give this whole area of law a review... it's more in the area of legal policy so you didn't just change the language, but you found out politically that you think there are some things that need to be tightened up that there are some things that need to be changed substantially in the law, then I would think it was a good idea. But I just don't see what it would change to change the language, other than that you might have some quite different problems on your neck. From the SF's point of view, we would very much like to take a look at whether the legislation in relation to animal abuse is good enough. It would then be our legal rapporteur who should take care of it, but I know that she would like to do so when an animal is hurting, if something happens, but it will be under that heading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132812	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409132824	I understand both from the Minister and from the Socialist rapporteur that it is now the end of the policy of symbolism, and I think that is a very sympathetic starting point. It is evident that one would prefer us to start by saying that we think something is sympathetic. Much was also done to tell how animal welfare legislation protects against all forms of animal cruelty. Then it was also mentioned that a special law has been introduced to protect against a very special form of animal cruelty, even in cases where the animal is not harmed. I think we should be careful not to throw too many large stones out of a glass house, which can be very dangerous. So let it be the comment on the much talk about symbolism on the part of the Minister and the Socialists in this matter. One can of course ask oneself whether such a motion for a resolution like this will have any effect, and one can also doubt it when one hears the arguments of the Danish People's Party for it. Because the argument that it feels wrong is a priority, and that is also what it says in the comments and perhaps I have such a rather relaxed relationship with how it feels. In reality, however, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party raises another and important discussion about animals and animal conditions, namely the definition of animals as living beings, also has a meaning. Well, does that mean that animals actually have some rights? For example, it would. If animals were living beings and they were written into the legislation everywhere, could of course we not remove piglets from the sow at a time when piglets are unable to fend for themselves without being massively medicated? So the question is, would that mean that? Yes, it would be for us to adopt such a resolution as this one which calls for a debate on the consequences of such an attitude towards animals on our way of dealing with animals in production. And it may well be that this discussion will show that the only thing that the Danish People's Party wants to do with this resolution is to appear as if they want to do something good for animals and make symbolic policy. But if so, we would have that tested. If the Enhedslisten is in favour of this motion for a resolution, it is because we would really like to see and have an analysis of what this changed view of animals will mean, both in relation to the legal rules we have and in relation to the case law we have. And would this be a way to have a different kind of discussion about animals, which was not just that one constantly takes out such a single area and discusses it, but also a general discussion about the way we use and abuse animals in really, very many ways in the way we live and the way we produce food. So we really think, whatever the explanation for the fact that the Danish People's Party has tabled this motion for a resolution, that it is leading to a really exciting discussion. We have also had a small discussion with our legal rapporteur in the Enhedslisten, she is not inclined to take over this case as the SF's legal rapporteur is. It is such an old discussion in our group whether it belongs to the food rapporteur or to the legal rapporteur, and it has always been the case that the food rapporteur has won this very good and important area after hard struggle, of course. That is a good thing, but there is no doubt that if you go through legislation and legislation as they are today, you will certainly come in situations where you have to ask yourself the question: if an animal is a living being, to what extent can it be owned by someone, and what questions does it raise in relation to the right to compensation and everything else? So, of course, it raises a discussion, precisely because, when we talk about what is outside animal welfare legislation, we have always operated on the issue of compensation rights and things like this: there are two categories: there are people and then there are things. And if we are to have a third category, and I do not wish to deny it, it may be relevant and sensible, then of course it raises a number of complex and legal issues. But Enhedslisten has the starting point that we will try every opportunity to create better animal welfare, and we will also try that together with the Danish People's Party in this case. And I just want to say in conclusion that if there is one thing I have learned from sitting in the Folketing, it is that you should never refuse to do good things with people, because they have done bad things in the past, or even if they have failed in relation to things that you think are really important. Because then you sit very quickly on your chair completely alone, and it can be very nice, because then you are in good company, but it doesn't give much influence and much opportunity to change the world. So we are going to take a positive view of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133307	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133310	I would just like to make one brief comment, and perhaps I do not necessarily believe that there is a need for follow-up. I would really just like to thank you for a constructive approach to dealing with this proposal and ask Mr. Mr Per Clausen, if we could be prepared to draw up a joint report on such a proposal, because Mr. Per Clausen raises a number of good issues, as if nothing else could be worth investigating. It could also be the implementation of such a motion for a resolution here that it does not necessarily end up with the whole parliament voting in favour of it, but one could set some work in motion so that one could work towards examining the issues which, among other things, are at stake. Mr. Per Clausen mentions. Could Enhedslisten be on such an idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133351	I have made it a habit that every time people propose to write a report, I always respond positively. It has happened a number of times that something good has come out of it. It is also relatively many times that nothing has come of it. But you can test that. In any case, we are not opposed to further work on the issue raised in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133414	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133433	I shall refrain from going into motive research for the reason that DF has tabled this motion for a resolution. Of course, DF has the right to do so at any time, no matter what the motives may be. In the Liberal Alliance, we are opposed to cruelty to animals. We regard animals as living beings, but we are also in favour of simplifying our legislation and not just filling up on top, because it can have some kind of signal that really does not serve the purpose that might have been intended. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that the necessary protection of animals is already taking place, and this is done in Section 1 of the Animal Protection Act, which provides that animals must be treated safely and protected in the best possible way against pain, suffering, anxiety, lasting but significant disadvantage, and thus the Liberal Alliance considers that the motion for a resolution tabled is superfluous and, in the end, perhaps contributes to the incalculability of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133533	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Left who has emerged in the meantime better late than never. There may be many reasons why you are late, it is forgiven. Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133548	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to join us on this B 53 by the Danish People's Party. In dealing with this motion for a resolution to regard animals as living beings in the legislation, the Left will support us to look at this. This has also already emerged from the debate so far. What does that mean? What can be added to this by various analyses? It might be good to clarify that. The motion for a resolution proposes to amend legislation and administrative regulations so that animals are referred to as living beings and not as things. The proposal comes in the light of the fact that animals are referred to as objects in the current legislation and that cruelty to animals is regarded as vandalism within the meaning of § 291 (1). 1, which provides that the person who destroys, damages or disposes of property belonging to another shall be fined or imprisoned up to 1 year and 6 months. We in the Left agree that it is wrong and untimely to classify animals as things in the legislation. Animals must be treated as animals and not as things, and therefore the specific wordings for drawing up any legislation in this area need to be considered more closely. It is stressed that this motion for a resolution is not about changing the penalties for animal abuse and, of course, we will ask a few questions during the committee procedure in order to clarify the various points. We have also already seen that in other countries changes have been made to legislation so that animals are no longer regarded as things, and we believe that we in Denmark should look at the same thing and have it examined in more detail. The description of animals in the current legislation, as the authors of the proposal point out, can send out the wrong signal, and that is why we in the Left will support the intention of the resolution to look into this. Then I should welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they are of the same opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133746	There is a brief comment. Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133750	I'm just gonna ask sir. Erling Bonnesen, whether it is a condition for the support of the motion by the Left that it does not in any way lead to improved animal welfare. Because that's how I understood sir. Erling Bonnesen: that the Left was prepared to support this, as long as it didn't have any consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133804	No. I marked it pretty openly, didn't I? We say that the signal that is sent, by considering them as things rather than animals, can be misunderstood. I also indicated that it was good to try to get it looked through sometime and have it analysed in more detail. So we have not taken any reservations of that kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133824	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133826	I don't understand, because I actually think that Mr. Erling Bonnesen makes reservations about what he says, namely that you can look through it because you do not want to send out the wrong signal. But what if what you are sending is not a wrong signal, but it is actually a matter of having legislation that is too lax in reacting to the fact that animals are being treated badly and that it might become very clear when discussing animals from the point of view that is here? Is it the case that then the Left will help tighten the legislation in relation to animal welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133855	Well, now I am not going to interfere with Enhedslisten's interpretation of things, but I can only say that there is at least a good reason why we should have a look at the subject once, so that we can find out what is up and down on it. So, if there is a majority in favour of it, let us take a closer look at it in committee, that is, if it gets there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133910	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409133916	Thank you for that, President. As has probably emerged, I am the last speaker. After all, this is a proposal that animals should be treated as living beings in legislation. It is the case today that you go to the neighbor and smash his car or mailbox, it is regarded as vandalism, and if you go to the same neighbor and kick or kill his dog, it is also regarded as vandalism, because in the penal code both are regarded as one thing, and we simply do not belong in a modern society like the Danish one. It clearly sends out the wrong signal that this is the way to equate the two things. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution which instructs the government to draw up the necessary amendments to the legislation to ensure that we regard animals in the future as what they are, namely living beings, and that they are not equated in the criminal code with, for example, animals. A broken window. As everyone agrees, and I am of course glad about that, because it is a good starting point of course that animals should be treated properly, and that is why I think it would be a good thing for us to have a closer look at this in the Danish Parliament and to change it on an equal footing with what has been done in a number of other countries. France has just changed what Germany and Switzerland have done some time ago, Switzerland in 1992 and Germany as far back as 1986, as far as I am aware. I think it is time for us in Denmark to get on that wagon. There have been some specific cases. A few years ago, there were, among other things. a police dog who was killed by some burglars, I think it was, which also ended up being considered a vandalism, because according to the law, the police dog was one thing. It did not come under the Animal Protection Act, which you can hear from several rapporteurs that animals are protected by and regarded as living beings in. But it's not the one that's being used. So it's the penal code. I have therefore received several inquiries from the policeman who, although it was a number of years ago, still feels offended by his legal awareness that his dog is regarded as one thing in the law and that what happened was vandalism. So I think there's a need for us to take a look at this. I would also like to say that the reason why I have chosen to make a relatively small proposal is because that is what it confesses and recognises I am precisely that if the penalties had started to be included in this, there would already be a lot that would be steeped because, for ideological reasons, they do not think that the penalties should be increased, but that some other things should be done. So in the first place I have deliberately chosen to say: fine, now we are changing this so that we do not regard animals as things, but as living beings, and then we can take the second in the second round. Because it is the case that when both go under section 291 of the Penal Code and you propose that there should be a punishment, you raise both the penalty for ordinary vandalism, like smashing a window or a mailbox, and to go and beat the neighbor's dog. By separating the two things, it is also easier for the Folketing in the future to be able to have one or the other thing punished, according to what is politically desired. So it is also a disadvantage, which is also inherent in the legislation we have today and which is one of the reasons why we want it to be amended. In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to take this opportunity, among other things. to say thanks to the Left and to Conservatives who are not here. Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen, who was late though. This may happen sometimes, but thanks for the support that you want to take a closer look at this and see if you can find a different definition of animals so that they are not seen as things in the penal code, on an equal footing with what you have done in a number of other countries. In fact, I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten, although they were unable to support the bill immediately. However, they had a constructive approach to this, I think, which means that we have something that we can work on in committee. Because I am very open to the fact that this should not necessarily be the model set out in the resolution, but that we should, after all, look more generally at whether there can be another way we can approach it, and preferably with the experience of other countries, or that we can have a look at some of the perspectives on which Enhedslisten raises questions. Then I have also noticed that the SF is not quite dismissive yet, and I also take this as a positive sign that, after all, one is willing to look at it if one can find some kind of model in the committee work, so that after all we can start a study or something, so that one can continue working on the issue. So, in this way, I would like to say thank you for the fact that there have been some positive statements on the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134337	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134352	The debate is open and the first is the Minister for Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134410	Thank you. With its motion for a resolution B 68, the Enhedslisten has proposed that the government follow the DTU Food Institute's assessment of how much bisphenol A we can tolerate. I agree with Enhedslisten that we must ensure that consumer consumption is reduced so that no one is exposed to more than the level that DTU considers safe. It may be tempting to introduce national special rules for bisphenol A in food contact materials, as they have done in France, but this is not necessarily the best solution. Unfortunately, there are currently no safe alternatives available for all uses of bisphenol A, and there is therefore a risk that bisphenol A will be replaced by something worse or that has not been investigated at all. We must remember that Denmark already has particularly strict rules on the use of bisphenol A in all types of food contact materials intended for food for children under 3 years of age, so I would rather lower the exposure of the population to bisphenol A by other means than introducing additional Danish special rules for the substance. Bisphenol A is used, inter alia, in certain types of plastics, in the inner surface finish of cans and in box coupons. According to the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, food is our largest source of bisphenol A, the second largest source being cashiers. In January, EFSA published a new risk assessment for bisphenol A, reducing the tolerable daily intake of TDI from 50 μg per day. Kilograms of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight. 4 μg per day to 4 μg per day Kilograms of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight per kilogram of body weight. day. That's how it's calculated. In their February assessment, DTU has taken into account the same effects that EFSA has in setting a tolerable level. However, unlike EFSA, DTU believes that the TDI should be reduced to 0.7 μg. The difference is mainly due to different assessments of the uncertainties in the calculations. The exposure of the population is on average below DTU's value, but there are some high-exposed groups that are exposed to more. I believe that we should allow the disunity of researchers to benefit consumers and reduce the exposure of the population to the substance. This is done best and fastest by phasing out the use of bisphenol A in food contact materials where safe alternatives are available. I have therefore asked the Danish Food Authority to start a process with the industry so that together we can find the best way to reduce the content of bisphenol A as soon as possible. I am pleased that the industry is already working to reduce its use. The Bisphenol A content in plastics can already be replaced by other plastics, and experience from France shows that the types of applications I referred to earlier, where there are no alternatives, are only about 10% in goose eyes. in the case of canned food. So that's about 10% where there are no safe alternatives. The phase-out time frame will be established in dialogue with the industry. It is of course important that the industry has the time to do so, but it is also important that it takes place as soon as possible. In the situation where such a voluntary agreement is not possible, so that we achieve our objectives, I would be willing to reconsider whether we could go another way, as the Enhedslisten proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134807	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134810	Now I understand that the Minister for Food will find a better method than the one they have chosen in France. The better method then involves dialogue with the industry, and then the industry has to tell the minister when they may have phased out bisphenol A, and then the minister will call it an agreement. Does the Minister, looking back at the story of bisphenol A in Denmark, have the experience that this is the way we usually achieve results? I would like to know that, because if I look back at the history of bisphenol A in Denmark, it is precisely through legislation that we have been able to influence both the EU decision, inspire decisions in France and even influence the industry to find alternatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134853	I cannot refer to any experience, because I have no experience. I'm quite new in this area. But I have experience of making voluntary agreements with the industry, where Enhedslisten has also, as a starting point, been sceptical, but has nevertheless succeeded. I'm counting on that too, and I'm hoping that may be the case in this round. I would have thought that Per Clausen, sharp as Per Clausen always is, had chosen to bite himself into the small sentence that I put in at the end, namely not succeeding in making a voluntary agreement, which is ambitious enough to do so, is not simply being referred to as asking them what they are going to do and then saying yes to it being an agreement to ensure the safety of consumers in the best possible way, I am willing to consider the legislative approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134950	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409134951	I heard the Minister of Food say that. Of course, we may be able to make that sentence so precise that it can become applicable. My question to the Minister for Food is this: what time horizon does the Minister envisage before there is an agreement? And does he not agree with me that the 90 per cent for which there have been documented in France that there are safe alternatives just have to be gone and that we should then have a plan for how quickly we can dismantle the last 10 per cent and that is what this is about? You can make a bid for a time frame or a time frame for it, because then we can try to talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135024	I do not have the opportunity to give a time horizon, nor do I believe that Mr. Per Clausen, with all due respect, sir. Per Clausen will have the opportunity to do so, since there is no experience. Even in France, where this legislation has been adopted, it is very, very doubtful how it should be implemented and whether it can be implemented. But what I am saying quite clearly is that it must be done as quickly as possible, but also securely. The fact that one substance is banned, and then instead of getting another, which is worse, I do not think any of us are interested in. I have to say that I believe that Mr. Per Clausen will have to look for a long time if he wants a more satisfactory and clear indication than the one I have given here, namely that I agree with the purpose. In fact, I do not just agree; I have already taken steps to ensure better consumer protection than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135117	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135132	Thank you. When considering the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution, B 68, on the protection of the population against bisphenol A, the Left will vote against the proposal. With the motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten proposes that Denmark follow the DTU Food Institute's recommendation for a tolerable daily intake of bisphenol-A of 0,7 μg/kg body weight/day rather than the EFSA limit of 4 μg/kg body weight/day. We in the Left also want food safety to be at its top. Therefore, we welcome the fact that the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) has assessed that there is no health risk associated with the current intake of bisphenol A. In addition, the current intake is three to five times lower than the value of tolerable daily intake of the substance established by EFSA. In this way it must be assessed that the population is adequately protected against the substance, in other words in the light of the current possibilities. When the Enhedslisten questions the EFSA risk assessment and instead prefers the DTU Food Institute's limit value, it is despite the fact that EFSA's recommendation is based on a comprehensive review of a large number of scientific studies. Here too, EFSA has taken account of the DTU Food Institute's assessment and criticism, one must count on. The Department of Food and Resource Economy at the KD has calculated that the proposal will mean additional costs for the industry of 350 million. kr., and it is difficult at present to find alternatives to bisphenol A in production. And the implementation of Enhedslisten's proposals could mean that the producers replace other bisphenols which have been studied less favourably than bisphenol A. Furthermore, the Enhedslisten's proposals will damage the competitiveness of Danish industry, and at the same time, as the Minister has now explained, we can also see that the various issues are being dealt with. So, on this basis, the Left will vote against the motion. And then I should say hello to the Conservatives and say that they are also voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135347	Thank you. There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135350	Now there's nothing new about the Left taking this position. When we tried to get bisphenol A banned in sucking bottles, the Left was also against it. In fact, we had to have an entirely new Minister for Food, who was, of course, also a Leftman, before a majority could force the then government to act in this area. But Mr. However, when he looks back at the fact that the proposal to impose a ban on bisphenol A in sucking bottles, which later infected the EU and became an EU ban, is a success story? And he does not find it interesting that in France it is believed that a ban can be implemented and, according to the information provided by the Minister for Food there, is capable of 90 per cent. of the products where there is bisphenol A, to replace them with safe alternatives? What does Mr. Erling Bonnesen basically we should wait for?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135439	The then case, which just ended with the ban on sucking bottles, landed on a reasonable basis following the previous debate to which the questioner refers. That's fine. We are entirely behind this. As has also been explained now, it would be inappropriate to follow the proposals of the Enhedslisten here, and that is why we are of course voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135458	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135501	At that time, however, EFSA also said that our proposal was completely crazy. That's what EFSA said. What did we use as an argument for imposing a ban on sucking bottles? It was an experiment that showed that fetuses are being injured. A number of studies have now been made. It is true that some of them are Danish who emphasise that bisphenol A is harmful. DTU then says that you have to go down to a completely different limit value than that mentioned by EFSA. Then I just don't understand why, sir. Erling Bonnesen is convinced that exactly this time it is the EU system that is right? He has recognised that the then VK government, the EU, was wrong at the time with the sucking bottles, but what makes him think that this time he should be on the right path?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135552	It is, of course, the case that the technical possibilities in the world are constantly evolving. At that time we landed it with sucking bottles in a way that we agree on, and the Minister has most recently explained that these things are being worked on continuously. You follow what is invented and what will be practically possible. I do not think anyone is going to come out completely from looking at this, but to follow the Enhedslisten's proposal here, one can almost say, does not go, because then it could actually have the opposite effect. Then it is better to stick to what you know and follow the developments that are coming, so when we take some steps, it must be sure step. As things stand, we cannot, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135632	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135633	I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur said in his speech about the competitiveness of Danish companies. Is competitiveness more important than endocrine disruptors, which can result in premature puberty and poor sperm quality, etc., if the rapporteur is going to say so briefly?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135700	I can answer that briefly. Of course, it is the health that is the most important thing. That is also what I mentioned first. It was then that I mentioned, on top of that, that it would damage competitiveness, and then it would damage the ability of the industry to play positively in trying to find solutions as technology develops. But I do not think anyone can disagree with the fact that it is of course the health that must be given priority. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135721	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135723	I'm glad to hear that. Now DTU hasn't taken these numbers out of thin air. They've done some calculations. But I understand that the rapporteur does not trust DTU's calculations. Is it not necessary, when it comes to such a serious issue with such serious health consequences, to apply the precautionary principle and actually rely on researchers at DTU to know what they are talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135756	If the author reads a little further and looks at what EFSA says, she will know that it is based on a large number of very thorough studies. That, then, is what we are ultimately also leaning on. Then it's an overall assessment at the end. With what we have explained in the past, there is no basis for supporting the Enhedslisten's proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135815	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409135826	For us Social Democrats, it is crucial that the food that the Danes eat does not contain harmful substances. Therefore, the Danes must be protected from chemicals in the best possible way, especially in our food. I would therefore like to start by stating quite clearly that it is the position of the Socialists that we should have lowered the intake of bisphenol A by the Danes as soon as possible. We fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. However, we do not entirely agree on the means. For us it is important to bear in mind that we have had a discussion about what level of bisphenol A is considered tolerable. The DTU Food Institute and EFSA have reached different levels. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament believes that it is very important that we do not go in and politicize, but that consumers should be given the most consideration. This means that we must strive to ensure that no one is exposed to more than the most cautious level. That is to say, the level that comes from the DTU Food Institute. This also means that we need to phase out bisphenol A in food contact materials in cases where safe alternatives are available. How do we do that? The Enhedslisten suggests here that Denmark should introduce additional national special rules for bisphenol A, i.e. that the government follow the DTU Food Institute's assessment. The problem with this solution is that there are not always safe alternatives to bisphenol A. So we run the risk of moving from the ashes and into the fire, because other chemical substances that may be more harmful to the Danes are used instead. Having said that, I would also like to say that it is, of course, still important to maintain that the use of bisphenol A should be phased out. However, this must be done in cooperation with the industry so that there is time and opportunity to develop safe alternatives. I understand that the Minister has started a process in cooperation with the relevant stakeholders so that we can reduce the content of bisphenol A as soon as possible. It comes on top of today's efforts to reduce use. In addition, it makes sense to work on stricter regulation by the European Union of the substance in food contact materials, as well as a more restrictive limit value than we currently have. Together, therefore, it is a question of working for a safe and voluntary phasing-out of bisphenol A in cooperation with the industry, while at the same time working in the EU for stricter common rules. The Socialists believe that this is a better way of achieving the objective, which is a rapid reduction in the intake of bisphenol A by the Danes. That is why we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140129	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140130	I hope that the Socialist rapporteur is not right when she says that now the Minister for Food has started a dialogue with the industry to phase out bisphenol A. After all, it is clear from a report which I believe a unanimous committee adopted back in September 2013 that this should be started immediately, and then, by the end of 2014, reports should be made on the state of play. There were also many other things to do, but it was one of them. I would just like to ask Mrs Karin Gaardsted whether she likes the result that the Minister is now presenting, namely that I am still assuming that it has continued, because, of course, we started at the time of dialogue, and we have no idea when it will end, nor have we really come any closer to knowing what alternatives there are. Does Mrs Karin Gaardsted think it sounds like a good solution to be found here? At least it won't come tomorrow; there isn't much indication of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140223	But it is a good way, that is, to enter into cooperation with the industry to make them phase it out themselves. It is a good idea to be able to do so in cooperation with them. We can always hope that something like this can happen more quickly than it might be possible to do in reality, and I would like to take note of what the Minister also said, namely that if it turns out that cooperation with the industry does not lead to the desired result, then there may be a need to resort to other methods such as this. legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140257	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140257-2	So this is a really good method. This is a method that we must assume the government and changing ministers have been working to find a solution to since September 2013. What we did in 2010 when we made a ban was such a bad solution. It led, well enough, to the disappearance of Bisphenol A from the sucking bottles quickly, and it actually led us to have EU legislation. But Mrs Karin Gaardsted will maintain that the new attitude of the government and the Social Democrats in this matter is, of course, a new one, which should lead to better results. I have to admit, I'm having a little trouble understanding this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140332	I would like to stress that the ban on using bisphenol A in materials that come into contact with young children was a perfectly correct decision, and of course we should not question that. However, it is important that we work on an area where it is difficult to find alternatives that are safe enough, and that is the area we are talking about. Of course, it must be implemented where there are alternatives that are both safe and good enough, but there are those areas left where other materials are not safe enough. That is where we need to see whether we cannot develop, by voluntary means, to find a solution, because the solution is, of course, that bisphenol A should be phased out completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140419	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140429	Thank you, President. B 68 is about bisphenol, and this is not the first time that we have seen a case about bisphenol A. I would also like to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we, like the Enhedslisten, are a little puzzled by the attitude of the government and the Social Democrats towards it, for the last time we had this case, we had at least an excellent cooperation from the Danish People's Party with the Social Democratic Party to resolve what was then a motion for a resolution, namely a full ban on bisphenol A. There was also a reasonable solution found in relation to what DTU had found for the products for the 0-3 year-olds on products for the 0-3 year-olds. Then the precautionary principle was applied and got it in Denmark, after which the then government was required by a significant majority to work to impose a ban on it in the EU in products for the 0-3 year olds. It was a huge success. In fact, the Danish Government succeeded in implementing that ban. Then one can say that we should just repeat that success, and this proposal actually comes quite conveniently, because it provides an opportunity to reflect on what has actually happened with success. And there I have to say that what I could read and there is actually not much to find, but there is after all something to find there is not much in Danish, but much in English is that part of the things we see is that bisphenol A has been replaced with a product called bisphenol S. So one can ask: was it a huge success? It was a success that we had phased out bisphenol A, but has it been such a success that if we now all know someone who has little children, with peace of mind, we can go out and buy products for the 0-3 year olds and know that there are no endocrine disruptors in them? I have to say that I have become a little bit unsure after I have prepared myself for this motion for a resolution. That is why it is good that it has been put forward so that we can also look backwards and look at how things have turned out with what we have decided. I can agree with the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur that perhaps we should look at this more closely and how we proceed. But I do not think it is an end in itself to have a discussion with the Danish business community. This may be a parallel way of doing this, and we can also become wiser in this way, but this is also an EU matter. That is why my proposal for this should actually be, because I think it is right to take it up and I think it might be interesting that we in the committee, just as we did last with a good debate and with the arming that needs to be done, should be able to draw up a report which requires this government and the future government to work towards phasing out these endocrine disruptors in food, including within the EU. We can, of course, at the same time have a dialogue with the Danish business community and others so that we can become wiser. I can see this as a very good outcome to this motion for a resolution. I have, of course, referred to the last resolution today as a great success, but I have become slightly uncertain whether it has also been such a great success as we have proposed. So I am really grateful that this motion for a resolution has been tabled. I think it might make a great deal of us wiser than we have done. If we could then also impose on each other that we should become wiser in the future, we have, of course, got something good out of such a motion for a resolution. That must be our approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140737	There's a question. Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140740	I have noticed, of course, that the industry in particular there I have heard talk about some large multinational corporations have been very busy telling us that they have replaced bisphenol A with something that is probably more dangerous. One might think that it is a little peculiar that there is an industry that is subject to a ban on the use of certain products and then a little half-hardy says to us: don't think it was a success, because we have come up with something that is probably more dangerous. I think that if you are honest and go in and do a simple analysis of it, it will turn out that they are not so cynical in the real world, so that in the real world you have found safe alternatives in a number of places. And that is one of the things we can examine in committee work. Is it true, as the Minister suggested, that safe alternatives of 90% have been used in France? of the area? Because then there is something to act on, I think. I'm just gonna ask sir. René Christensen because I had some doubts lately: shall I understand that, as Mr. René Christensen says that when it comes to the chemical issue, the Danish People's Party believes that there are no Danish solutions, that is, that only the European Union can do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140845	No, certainly not. Last time we were quite ready to say that we have a precautionary principle in Denmark. You can also take the lead, and once we have done so, the argument will also be greater when you go out into the world, in other words into the European Union, and work for it. We are actually ready for that, and that is what we did last time. But that is why it is interesting if we in the committee work that it is not just a motion for a resolution that runs into the sand, because it seems to the Danish People's Party that it is actually too important for it to have written something that actually requires both the current government and future governments to work more purposefully to phase out these products. I believe that across all parties we agree not to wish these endocrine disruptors in our food products. That's why I guess there's a need for an occasion, and I'd like to congratulate the Enhedslisten for having actually done something about it, that is, when we're at it. And there could actually be a very good report, also in terms of getting the work started to look at how things have really gone backwards in relation to what we have decided and how we can work forward in relation to the challenge we have with bisphenol A and also other products that we have, which are endocrine disruptors.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140947	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409140950	Now I do not remember whether I have once or twice adopted a resolution here in the Danish Parliament, but otherwise most of the results have grown out of reports. So I'm just gonna say to mr. René Christensen, that we are happy to be part of this work again. But I just think it is a little important that there is some momentum in things, because we also adopted a report in September 2013. After the end of 2014, there was to be a statement about everything that the government should have done, and then you had to point out what to do. And then I think, if I may be honest, that it is a little weak that what you are going to continue with is the discussions with the industry about the alternative to bisphenol A, which you should have been doing for a very long time, and that you cannot say anything about what kind of time horizon that is. I think so, sir. René Christensen will agree with me that it is a little too easy for us to let the government get away with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141040	However, the Danish People's Party is also ready to make amendments; we did so last time. It was the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party that led us to introduce a ban in Denmark because, as we always do when we see a resolution, we look at it and ask: what do we think is good? If there is 40 per cent that is good, why not work together on it and put the other one a little away and see if we can make any policy? In fact, I think we can make some policy on the proposal that lies here. It may be a report, but it can certainly also be an amendment that we are taking in the Chamber and then we can vote on it here. But I look forward to that being done in committee, because it is an important debate. But it is not easy, because there are actually some areas where I think that we who are sitting here today may not be one hundred per cent enlightened, and we should at least allow that to stay. And we can do so in the short term so that it can lead to an amendment or a report, or on the long track by deciding something that will happen in the future. It is certainly the approach of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141132	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141141	Radical Left takes the chemistry agenda very seriously. It's not a joke when fertility falls in our country, it's not a joke when children go to puberty too early, and when we see many other things, such as... is due to the endocrine disruptors and the other unnecessary chemistry that is in the products that are around us. It should also be remembered that the chemistry agenda is an incredibly complex size. It is an area where you can easily panic because a substance sounds dangerous, and it is really about how it is used. It is an area where you have to constantly look at what alternatives are present, and it is an area where you have to look at how to use your gunpowder best, because it is the case that as a country alone Denmark cannot solve the whole challenge of chemistry. Bisphenol A, which we are talking about today at the request of Enhedslisten, is one of the substances we have been under surveillance for a long time, and we have a ban in Denmark on bisphenol A in the materials, food materials that can come into contact with children under 3 years of age. That makes sense because there are safe alternatives here. The problem with making a ban in general is that we have not developed alternatives that are safe in all areas. Bisphenol S is equally uncertain, it is proven by Canadian scientists. Bisphenol B, E, F, S and 4-formylphenol have a similar potential to interfere with hormones. Today, the places where bisphenol A is used are mainly acidic and salty, such as: Pickled cucumbers, peeled tomatoes, cider and cola in cans, where the cans e.g. rusts if you don't use bisphenol A. There are no alternatives in these areas, and that is why we in the Radical Left believe that the important thing is to put pressure on the European Union, to put pressure on the EU to make regulation in this area that can drive companies to invest in alternatives, to invest in finding solutions that are more secure, so that we do not just create a ban and then use some substances that can actually prove to be even more dangerous. So there has to be regulation in this area. It must come from a European level, and where Denmark can make a difference is by taking action on research, it is by presenting facts to the European Union which cannot be avoided. After all, we have a long history of doing so, not least in the environmental field, which is one of the areas where the chemistry agenda is really regulated. I would say that I think that one of the most important places to take action is simply when we are going to the new negotiations at European level, where the Minister has also promised to put a lot of effort into pushing to phase out the endocrine disruptors and, in particular, those about which we know so much as, for example, we do. In addition, when Denmark held the Presidency of the European Union, one of our main priorities was the 7th Environmental Action Programme, where one of the things we really highlighted was precisely the chemistry agenda, that was hormone disruptors and cocktail effects, that is, that we are affected from many different sources, that is, that we do not only have limit values on the individual substances, but actually look at what happens when we get a cocktail, that is, when they get mixed, we get a mixture of many substances, where we are just below the limit. So, although we share Enhedslisten's concern for bisphenol A, and although we think it is right to try to get it out of as many substances as possible, we do not agree that a Danish ban is the right way to go at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141518	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141520	Now you can also get caught up in what you usually suggest, but the fact is that Enhedslisten does not even propose a ban on bisphenol A. We merely suggest that you comply with the limit value in relation to the daily intake proposed by DTU. I would like to ask Mrs Ida Auken how long she thinks that we in Denmark should accept having a limit value that the leading expertise in Denmark says is not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141547	Now it is a very technical discussion, and there is disagreement between the leading European authority and the leading Danish authority about what is a tolerable intake in this area. It is therefore the case that the majority of consumers are now exposed to less than 0.4 micrograms per day. kg, which is below the EFSA and DTU assessment. So it has to be said that it comes from, sir. Per Clausen would suggest in order to get to where DTU would like us to go is that we should make a definite ban on a wide range of areas. And that is where I say: well, if we do, we do not have alternatives that are good enough. I remember when we made the ban on bisphenol A in sucking bottles, for example. So it was a bit of a shock to me when I was contacted by various engineers who said to me: Be careful, because you can go in and make a ban, and then there comes an alternative that is more toxic. That is why I think it should be taken seriously that in relation to these things, which are about preserved foods and acidic foods in glass, there is no alternative that is not as toxic. In fact, I think you should take that into consideration when you say that you want to go so far as to make a ban. I can ask Mr. Per Mrs Clausen, if he imagines that the limit values will have to be complied with by other means, if not through a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141706	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141708	It is clear that if you want to comply with a stricter limit value than that which otherwise exists, it requires that you have some measures which are about phasing out the use of bisphenol A in some products. I fully agree with that. And I look forward to a committee work where we can sort out these views a little more systematically that there are no alternatives, as far as I know, is the main source of the information industry itself. And it is actually very obvious that that is where they come from, but one can challenge that, I think. Then I would just like to ask Mrs Ida Auken whether she herself will not be a little concerned about the very strong focus of the Radical Left on the EU solution when we are obviously in the situation that, if we ban one dangerous substance, EU legislation allows just another, perhaps even more dangerous substance to be introduced. Wasn't that something REACH was supposed to prevent? Was it not the case that REACH had to ensure that companies had to prove that the products they used were not dangerous before they used them? Or is it because I believed a little too much in the propaganda of Mrs Ida Auken and other EU supporters that I got that impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141811	Now, of course, you can always question what the industry thinks. If you ask the green organisations and those who work with chemistry, they will no doubt say that the world's best regulation in the field of chemistry is the European REACH. They will say that it is they who have pushed the alternatives that it is they who have pushed for some of the largest chemical producers to have thrown themselves over green chemicals and have plunged themselves into making these alternatives. And it is true that a substance is allowed if it is not prohibited, and that is why it is that you have a long list, where you actually try to get these substances out and put them into REACH so that we can get them banned. It is a great and comprehensive work, and only the European Union can do so. I do not know how many billions it would cost Denmark to do research so that we could ban all the substances that are dangerous. So no, I don't agree. If you want to protect consumers, the European Union is the place where Denmark will have more influence and more strength towards some of the major producers who may be more indifferent to public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141911	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409141913	Now Mrs Ida Auken is talking about banning something; that is not what this resolution is about, but let us just say it. Then I think that Mrs Ida Auken's argument that if we ban one substance, then the industry will have another that is even more dangerous is an expression of such a gun policy. I guess that's not something we should be subject to. What we have to do is we are discussing politically in here. However, my question was whether not Ida Auken, who is also very well versed in how the EU system works and has been at Council meetings, etc., knows that sometimes it is those who take the lead that can sort of raise the bar. You can also lower it. But there are always some countries you look at when you see who is doing it well and what you think about it. Isn't there someone who's supposed to take the lead? I also think that I have heard Mrs Ida Auken say on several occasions that it is good that Denmark places the bar very high on the environment, on chemicals, etc., because it can be a lever. After all, this is not about banning anything, but about recognising the level of DTU, and so perhaps we can also help push for development in the European Union. Because I agree that the best thing will be to have pan-European legislation, but can Denmark not be the first to take the lead here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142043	My whole speech was about doing the right thing to get rid of bisphenol A, and I think the right thing to do is to be able to put more and more documentation on the table and press on in the European Union to have a common regulation rather than a regulation that can push the development of alternatives that are more toxic. Because I don't think we're gonna stop having tin tomatoes, even if the Danish Parliament adopts this. I don't think we do. Then there's the problem that you put drugs in worse. You may like that or not, but that's the reality. If there are no alternatives to drugs and they are in a product you need, then we know what it's like. Shall we ban canned tomatoes and pickles? I don't know if SF's answer to avoiding bisphenol A is the right one in this particular area to go to the European Union. We have had other areas where it was quite obvious to make a Danish ban and take the lead, and where we have been able to push. This is true, for example. Sucking bottles and contact materials for children, for there was an alternative, and we came a long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142142	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142143	I am not going to put a word in Mrs Ida Auken's mouth, but I would say that many Members of the European Parliament were furious at the SF and thought that it was some strange conclusions that the SF had come to. Now you have to be careful what you say in this Chamber, but let us just say that there are many interests and many stakeholders in this area. The SF Member of the European Parliament, Margrete Auken, used great words about precisely these conclusions on bisphenol A. Therefore, without accusing all sorts of things, I would just like to say that sometimes some countries also have to take the lead and move in a particular direction. After all, this resolution is not about banning anything, but about putting the limit value where it is in accordance with the precautionary principle, where DTU says it should be. Then it may be that some fundamental changes have to be made, but there may also be that the rapporteur, with his great interest in the circular economy, can give us some good ideas. This is at least so dangerous, and so many things have been demonstrated in experiments on rats, etc. that we from the SF think it is necessary to put ourselves at the level recommended by DTU.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142306	I believe that if you take a trip down to the European Parliament or to a Council meeting, there will be no one at all, let alone anyone in the Commission, who is in doubt that Denmark is a frontrunner in this area, that Denmark is constantly pushing for European legislation, that Denmark has set aside money to send experts to help the Commission with their work. Because that's the way you get the most influence. Then it may well be that there is the big difference between SF and Radicals today that we are concerned about trying to do something that works out in the real world, not doing anything that means that there will be a worse alternative in the real world. And so we have to say that there is something that we must live with for a while and that we all find problematic. But if we create a bigger problem by going the wrong way, we think it is wrong to choose that solution. So, on the part of the Radical Left, it is a question of being pragmatic and ensuring that it is the reality that is moving, that it is out there that better chemicals come that are not detrimental to public health. This isn't about us sitting in the Folketing and having a good time with the fact that we've banned canned tomatoes and pickles.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142411	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142412	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur something, because it is a little interesting since it is someone from the Radicals who is standing there. I agree very much with what has been said that we can, of course, go alone, but how much does it move? We also got into a lot of controversy about imports of goods from outside, etc. and whether we are really sticking people in the eye by saying that there are now no these products in Denmark, and yet they are there because they are imported products etc. etc. That is why the Danish People's Party also suggested from the platform that we should try to see, for once in the committee work, whether we can't make any text or amendment or anything else to look at how we can push, so that at any time the minister in office actually has a mandate here from the Parliamentary Chamber, which says that one should actually ask whether the Radicals will be actively involved in the work of the committee, so that we can have a job that can both look behind, but certainly can also look forward to having a mandate there when we send our minister in the city of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142506	This is actually so fortunate, I think that in Denmark, historically, we have a fairly broad consensus on the chemicals agenda, and we also have a broad conciliation agreement in this area and in the environmental field, where the majority of this is regulated. So I think it is quite appropriate that both the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Food and Food should keep pressure on the current government to remain at the forefront of the field in Europe at all times. I do not think any minister should be allowed to fall asleep and I think it is very good to have such a debate today. And, of course, we are actively involved in the work of the committee, as we always do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142546	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance, sorry, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, as rapporteur. There was the President a little too quick.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142613	SF supports the proposal and calls on the government to set in motion the necessary work. At the same time, we also believe and think it is a good idea that the government should try to get Danish Industry and Danish importers on a voluntary phasing out strategy containing low limit values. It must therefore be a voluntary agreement in which it must be specifically stated that the consequence of non-compliance with the agreement is the introduction of legislation in this area. And that is also what I thought the Minister said a little cautiously, namely that if this voluntary agreement did not materialise, it would have to be looked at again. It should be a general strategy for endocrine disruptors that, in addition to documenting the harmful effects of raw materials, for example. Through the new finance bill for the international research of the Reichshospitalet, there are also indications that there are alternatives. The final target for endocrine disruptors that are not naturally found in nature or food is a total phasing-out and a total ban. We think it is important that the industry in Denmark should be involved as much as possible in the efforts to remove these substances from food and consumer products, and SF has previously raised the issue of phasing out and the limit value for bisphenol A both to the Minister for Food and the Minister for the Environment. The latter confirms that the European Commission considers that it is not possible, as a general rule, to set a limit value under which endocrine disruptors are harmless. The same applies to carcinogenic substances where limit values are currently set when the substances are unavoidable. The Minister for Food has undertaken to negotiate with the industry, but not a voluntary agreement with a clause that the alternative is legislation. However, I think that today, when the Minister was on the floor, I heard a little between the lines that if a voluntary agreement does not work, it will of course have to be looked at again. And then we can interpret a little bit of what's gonna happen. Perhaps we can also ask the Minister, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned in his question to the Minister, when this will happen and in what context it will be considered that a voluntary agreement has not worked in the best possible way. SF prefers to have the industry in Denmark as a positive player, but that there may be legislation in sight must at the same time be understood as a real consequence of non-phase-out or too high limit values. So the SF supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142905	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. I would just like to say that, if the Minister so wishes, the Minister is welcome to come up to the floor to make that clear. That's not necessary? It's okay, but the minister should have the chance. There may always be some misunderstandings, but you can see from the minutes what the Minister has said. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409142931	Thank you. There are, of course, numerous chemical additives, and it can be said that if we in the Folketing were to deal with each of them, we would certainly not be bored. The motion for a resolution on the protection of the population against bisphenol A is against the Liberal Alliance, and we are against it because we choose to take up the risk assessments and recommendations that EFSA has made. After all, it is strange about the European Union, because from the Liberal Alliance we have a sceptical approach to the European Union and we think that the European Union is interfering in much more than the European Union should interfere in. However, at times the European Union is actually very good to lean on, in the sense that the European Union makes some assessments, which means that if we join them, we can actually ensure that we also have fair conditions of competition on the Danish side, in relation to what may happen to trade within the EU's borders. If we deliberately went in now and changed the level of protection against bisphenol A, there is evidence that it would probably cost Danish industry in the region of 350 million. kr. If, at the same time, we do not have real alternatives at this stage, we think it is good that we continue as it is now. If we can then make voluntary agreements, we will never be sceptical about that. Voluntary agreements are a very good idea. But I have to say to the Minister for Food that one can hardly call it a voluntary agreement if the entrance is: if you do not enter into a voluntary agreement, we will come with the great hammer of law, and it will be that way anyway. There isn't much volunteering about that. But if there's a voluntary agreement, we're fine. Then we'll balance things out. As long as it is not there, we, the Liberal Alliance, choose to follow EFSA's assessments, which is why we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409143132	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409143145	There are some rapporteurs who have suggested that this is an old problem in the Folketing. It is also because we have known for a very, very many years that bisphenol A was dangerous and had a large number of negative consequences. That is why, back in around 2008 or 2009, Enhedslisten produced a motion for a resolution with the intention of having at least a ban on bisphenol A in sucking bottles. We discussed this back and forth, and the proposal was, before it was adopted, actually radicalised and tightened up a bit by the Danish People's Party, and thank you for that. Because if it is the case that we need to tighten up our demands and tighten up our proposals in order to obtain a majority, it is not difficult to get us on board. So if that's the way it's going, we're definitely on it. After that it turned out that the trial before the European Court of Justice was not started, as Eva Kjer Hansen, then Minister for Food, had promised us. On the contrary, it happened that the rules were actually changed in the European Union, so that the ban that we had introduced in Denmark was introduced in a further improved version. And that was actually a very good result. Now it was so that when we got the scientific evidence that allowed us to make legislation in Denmark compared to 0-3 years old, we got evidence that it was actually a problem at least in relation to rats. After all, this type of study is being carried out on rats, and not least the male rats that pregnant rats were given had some defects even with a relatively modest intake of bisphenol A. That is to say, we carried out a ban on young children with an argument which should in fact have led us to put forward a broader proposal for a ban which was more extensive. This is then the issue that Enhedslisten returned with in 2013 when we made a proposal to ban bisphenol A. Sometimes in today's debate one could get the impression that this is what we were discussing again, even though we have become softer in our knees as the years have passed. The conclusion was that we produced a report on which there was agreement. It was also a relatively soft report, but it now contained some concrete things that have happened. In fact, the DTU Food Institute has done the things they had to do about the health consequences and has found that there is a need for stricter than the limit values, and they have also found that they disagree with EFSA. I would like to say that in the past, including in the Folketing, let alone talk about the European Parliament, the Minister for Food must remember that from his time down there has been debates about the extent to which EFSA could be said to be so completely detached from business interests. At any rate, it is clear that there are a great many people working in EFSA who both before and after their employment in EFSA had and have good, well-paid jobs in private companies. That only means that they are extremely talented and really excellent and everything else, no doubt about it, but at times it has been said that there could be something there. There has also been a discussion of the lobbying that these companies and their organisations are able to do, and I think there are also some rapporteurs in this Chamber who would say that lobbying can also sometimes be felt by one's body here in Denmark. I would say, in any case, that I have never been approached where there have been so many large multinational companies on paper as in these cases. That is why we must basically ask ourselves the question: What would make us not believe in DTU's calculations? I do not think there are very many people in the world who are in doubt either, that when we talk about endocrine disruptors, some of the best people, when we talk about damage in this area, are actually in Denmark. So there is practically every reason, I think, to have faith in the statements that come from them. That is also why Enhedslisten then chose to table a motion for a resolution in which we simply followed DTU's limit values. This had also opened up a small hole that we had opened up to a small hole in the form of a limited use of bisphenol A. It can be said that the limit value set by EFSA is very much appreciated in the industry, because it has meant that they can continue to use bisphenol A in exactly the same way as they do today; it has no consequences, whereas it is true that choosing DTUs would have consequences. I have become a little uncertain about the discussion about whether or not there are safe alternatives. I thought the Minister for Food referred to the fact that, at least in France, there was a view that there were safe alternatives to a very large proportion of the products that used bisphenol A, while other rapporteurs today have almost indicated that there was no place at all and that it was all a great holocaust, where the only consequence of adopting the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution would be that people would live a safer and more dangerous life. I think we can get a little closer to that in the course of the committee procedure. It must be relatively easy for the Minister to reply to, because one of the things we adopted in 2013 was that the government had to enter into close cooperation with the French authorities in order to follow the implementation of the legislation that we well knew was on the way in France at the time. So it must be able to be cleared up, I think, relatively quickly and relatively simply, and we are looking forward to that at least. The point for us is that now, of course, we have to get back to a thorough committee on these things. We believe that there is a great deal of scientific basis on which to act. There is DTU's material, which also exists in so far as the old scientific basis we had for implementing the original ban. I would say to the view that the only way to get very good and sustainable solutions is to agree with the industry that they have to find some alternatives. Without going too far, I would say that if this had been the only method applied to business when it was about achieving results in terms of removing dangerous substances from products and achieving environmental gains, I honestly do not think that we had come very far. I am absolutely convinced that it is conducive to the creative ability and opportunities to find alternatives if we are subjected to clear political pressure towards this, that we will not tolerate this and that we will not continue to put up with it for too many years, so you have to find an alternative. Otherwise, you must go back to some of the real prehistoric technology that you used in the very good old days before you had even invented bisphenol A, and where for some reason both cola and tomato could also be sold in cans. In fact, this has also been possible historically without the use of bisphenol A. So I think we have to say that there will be a need to make some demands here too. I hope that the committee work we are now going to do can lead us to understand the extent to which the industry's reluctance to do this is due to real arguments, which are about not having alternatives here and now, but being able to develop them within a relatively short period of time, and to the extent to which it is just that it is more expensive and more difficult to find alternatives. Then I hope that, in the context of the work of the committee, we can also get a little closer to what the Minister of Food thinks is exactly what he means when he says he wants to make an agreement with the industry, but if they do not want to make an ambitious agreement or agreement that is ambitious enough, then we will move on to legislation. This could be written in a report, because it sounds really nice, but some would ask: what does ambitious • what does it mean in relation to how much should be phased out, what does it mean in relation to when to expect we can live up to the DTU limit value, which I at least see as a very large majority in the Folketing supporting? There were some parties in this case who thought it was wise to lean on EFSA. I guess I feel that when the Liberal Alliance leans up against the European Union, there is reason to be concerned. I think there are others who feel the same way if they are to be completely honest. Whether it is on behalf of the European Union or of the Liberal Alliance, people must be on their own. I therefore believe that we must be able to be a little more precise in the work of the committee. It is clear that in the Enhedslisten we have a well-developed ability to count to the mandates needed to get something adopted in the Folketing, and we can once again note that only by great patience and willingness to listen to all the positive things others say can we get there that we might get a report that represents progress in relation to what is now in place. I just want to say that we have a report back from 2013 and the government has not fully lived up to it yet, so it would probably be sensible for the government to make a relatively quick contribution to getting a new report that they could live up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144207	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144211	Thank you. It's actually just for Enhedslisten, because I think Enhedslisten might make this a little simple, and I don't think it really is. I think that in some areas the Minister has set an excellent agenda for dialogue with the industry. For part of the solution here is not just a ban on something; part of the solution is also the agreement on the alternative, and that is why I believe that there are two lines here which are parallel, and I also hope that the Enhedslisten will work on that when we take it in committee. We are not going to start the debate with what we are going to do in committee, but I would say that we in the Danish People's Party support the Minister in saying that there must be a dialogue with the industry. And it's not that much about discussing whether we want this product, bisphenol A, or we don't want it, but it's more about something else. Now that there is some agreement that this is a product we would like to phase out, because I actually sense that somewhere there is the rapporteur does not think that it is in order to talk to the profession about what the alternative should be for a lasting solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144314	Yes, as long as we in Denmark and in fact in the European Union have had so little legislation on chemicals that the consequence of banning one substance may be that we introduce another which is more dangerous and it is really strange that we have so lax legislation, but let it be so clear that it is in itself an argument for using a dialogue-based method. And there is a really, really good model of dialogue if we are to find out how we are going to get to a particular place, but I think that if we leave it to the business community and the industry to decide where we are going, then we will be in a weak position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144356	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144357	I'll be brief, and then we'll take the rest in committee. But there is something interesting, and I would also like to say, if I am going to refer to my rapporteur's speech, that I and the Danish People's Party have certainly not proposed that with what has happened to bisphenol A, we have just got something much worse. No, but we've just still gotten something. What is important when you legislate, and when you send out some signals to the public that you have now made some political decisions that make some foods safer, is that they should also be so, and they should be so in the years after, so that you do not just phase out something and get something else in, and then it may be a little less dangerous, but it is still a hormone disrupter. I would just like to say that at this stage the Danish People's Party is simply not prepared to say that we are quite clear about this. After all, we should have instructed the government to deliver that work so that we can work on it politically in a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144448-2	I think sir... René Christensen is right in saying that if you are going to deal with chemicals and the phasing out of dangerous chemicals, it is hard work to understand what it is like, precisely because a great many of those who are experts are getting a good salary in order to take care of some interests other than the public's health interests. So I fully agree with that, and I would just like to say that we must, of course, have that work and dialogue, because we will not be able to make stricter rules in this area if we do not have a complete overview of the professional situation. But, by the way, I'd like to say to Mr. René Christensen, that I now feel quite confident that the things we have done in relation to products for children are things that have improved the living conditions of those children, and I think we can be happy and proud that we have been involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144557	I would just like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 14 April 2015. As rapporteur for the questioners, it is Mrs Jane Heitmann who makes a statement of reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144638	Most of us are really happy with our work. Our work helps create identity, and it helps to give us life content. Unfortunately, too many are on the sidelines, outside the community. According to the OECD, up to 90 per cent of people are unemployed. of people with mental illness that they want to get to work. More than half of them say that they have not been helped to do so. There are studies showing that the link with a workplace has a healing effect in itself. However, we know that untreated mental disorders can prolong a course of illness and that the risk of losing a job and later having problems returning to the labour market increases significantly. I have asked the Minister for Health and Prevention and the Minister for Employment, together with the rapporteur on the labour market, Hans Andersen, what can the Ministers say about the government's efforts and initiatives to maintain people with depression and other mental illnesses in the labour market? We have done so because, from a political point of view, we have a special obligation to address a particularly vulnerable group by taking targeted initiatives that point in the right direction in terms of maintaining and returning to the labour market, but also to prevent people from being excluded from the community because of a mental illness. I look forward to a good debate here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144805	Then it is for replying first to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409144817	The Left has asked me to explain the government's efforts and initiatives to maintain people with mental illness in the labour market. I think it is important to start by stressing that it is essential for the government that we have a labour market that is inclusive and that there is also room for those who have difficulties to maintain. That is why it is also important, firstly, that there is a focus on a good psychological working environment at the individual workplace, and secondly, that people who continue to experience problems in obtaining or retaining a foothold in the labour market can get the right tools for this. In order for us to get a picture of what we may be talking about, I would like to highlight a report, "Handicap and Employment', published earlier this year by the National Centre for Social Welfare. The report shows that people with mental illness continue to have a low share of employment, since only one in four people with a mental illness are actually in the labour market. This is because it is an area which also contains difficult issues, which can, of course, also be difficult to resolve. The SFI report also examines attitudes in the labour market towards people with mental illness, and here we can see that people in the labour market in general have become more accommodating to mentally vulnerable colleagues. I think that is really, really positive, and we must, of course, build on that. When attitudes towards people with mental illness become more accommodating, it may mean that in future it will also be easier to get both employed and maintained more people with mental illness in the labour market. The psychic working environment is a priority when we talk about the health and safety effort • the one we have formulated towards 2020 • and the government has reached an agreement with the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party as recently as Easter to further strengthen the health and safety effort. The agreement means, among other things, that we are focusing more on those companies where the problems are actually greatest. In future, risk-based supervision, as we call it, must be 80%. of the total supervision of the Factory Inspectorate. The psychological working environment is part of the risk-based supervision and, in addition, the Danish Labour Inspectorate conducts various interventions with a focus on mental health and safety in worn-out industries. As recently as in the context of the 2015 Finance Act, we set aside among other things. 15 million kr. to the Danish Labour Inspectorate so that they can continue the supervisory efforts with a focus on the psychological working environment in worn-out industries until 2016. In addition, as part of the strategy, the social partners and the Labour Inspectorate published in 2013 a booklet with good advice for companies in connection with the retention and recruitment of people with e.g.: reduced mental ability to work. Under the auspices of the Prevention Fund, a number of initiatives have been undertaken which focus on maintaining and hiring people with mental illness and the availability of companies in the worn-out industries. Among them I can highlight the change of track and the prevention package, which the government, together with Enhedslisten and SF, has just agreed to extend by a total of 34.5 million. kr. Until 2018. We have also agreed to extend the switching effort to include mental wear and tear, and that is, I think, the right direction in which we are going. In addition, the government has carried out a number of reforms in the field of employment in recent years, focusing on ensuring that vulnerable people, including those with mental illness, can maintain or achieve a greater link with the labour market. It is, for example, with the reform of the sickness insurance system that we have been phasing in since last summer. Here we have strengthened the possibility of implementing an earlier and more individually adapted effort to keep sick people on the labour market. We have, for example. introduced the fixed track scheme, which allows both companies and sick registered citizens to request the municipality to initiate an earlier follow-up. It is also crucial that municipalities and health services work closely together to find the best solutions for the individual citizen, so that we ensure that the patient's doctor is involved not only as early, but also as systematically as possible in the municipal effort. With the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, the government has together with, among other things: Left reinforced the flex job scheme. The scheme has been made more inclusive, and it is also for the benefit of citizens with mental disorders who find it difficult to find a foothold in the labour market. With the reform, we have also made it possible to work up to a few hours a week by being employed as flex jobs. I am also pleased to note that the social partners, including the employers, have realised this. It is not only helping people with mental disorders for a flex job, but it has also meant that in this way we have made an offer to a lot of people who would otherwise not have been able to get it. If we look at the time before the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, there was an increasing proportion of young people who were granted early retirement. At the same time, nearly three out of four were given an indication, young people under 40 years of age, and their background for this was often a mental disorder. This development was and fortunately a majority seems to be worrying and unnecessary, because we know that many of these sufferings can actually be treated and that young people's ability to work can be developed. It was therefore a key element of the reform to give a special helping hand to young people with complex problems. We have thus introduced the so-called resource cycles, which are multidisciplinary and coherent, and are long-term measures to help young people move forward so that they can get into either work or education. And then we should remember that the reform requires municipalities to work interdisciplinaryly as part of establishing the interdisciplinary rehabilitation teams in all municipalities, where representatives from both social, employment, education and health are involved. I believe this will create good conditions for people with mental illness to have the necessary, but above all the more holistic, support that can sustain them in the labour market. We have a special responsibility when the mental illness comes from a job. For a number of years, the focus has been on maintaining injured people with occupational injuries in the labour market. This must, of course, also apply if it is a mental illness that has occurred. I am pleased that, together with the SF and the Enhedslisten, we have set aside 16 million for the future. kr. for the next 4 years to build on that restraint insert. I think that is also crucial. Finally, I would like to stress that there should of course be no doubt that the government has taken and will continue to take its task seriously when it comes to ensuring the retention of people with mental illness in the Danish workplaces. We owe them that. But at the same time, this is an area on which we must continue to thank the question debate today for the opportunity to focus on it. Unfortunately, as I started by saying, we have a relatively fresh report from the SFI which shows that as politicians we cannot relax here, but must continue to focus on this very important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409145556	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Then it is the Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409145611	First of all, thank you for this question about the government's efforts and initiatives to maintain people with depression and other mental disorders in the labour market. This is an extremely important and topical subject that we must discuss. Studies from e.g. My own ministry and KL have recently shown that people with a mental illness are far less likely to be at work than the rest of the population. We in the government are very concerned about doing something about that. Overall, it is about equal worth between having a physical disorder and having a mental illness. If we are to achieve equal value, then it also requires a change of culture in our view of people with mental illness. And there's that time when I was a boy. It's really nice to say we called them crazy. I think most people have seen that in the community where you grew up, a few stood out. We were told by our parents that they could not do for it and that they should be accepted and helped. But they were not part of the community, and somehow they were disfellowshiped. That group is not, in fact, the group that is interesting in the talk that we have today. That group is the group that lay right next to them, namely all the others, all the ordinary people with work, the neighbor or cashier or the priest; people who had some degree of mental illness but who kept it secret because they felt they had to keep it secret for shame or for fear of losing work, to lose friends, to be seen wrong to like the others. Or maybe they didn't even know why life was sometimes so difficult, and why it made them mess up like they did. We are no longer there today, but there is still some way to go before a mental illness no longer has to be kept secret for fear, for example, of losing its job. If we are to ensure better place in the labour market for people with mental disorders, we must avoid stigmatisation; we must avoid prejudice, for example. whether you can have a job when you are mentally ill. You can, as long as you get the right treatment, and as long as you get the necessary understanding. I will try to highlight three core areas that are essential to support if we are to achieve the goal of making people with mental disorders more associated with the labour market. Firstly, we must ensure that people with mental disorders experience that they are met by a coherent system across sectoral boundaries, across administrative divisions. Therefore, the government has changed the framework of the health agreements between regions and municipalities so that 98 agreements have now become five for each region. Links with the labour market are an issue which the parties are aware of in the health agreements. In addition, with the 2014 Economic Agreement, the government has prioritised a total of 550 million. kr. to initiatives in regions and municipalities to strengthen the efforts of the many people who cross the sectoral boundaries. Then, under the 2012 rate pool, we have set aside 100 million. kr. More than 4 years to a forward-looking and strengthened cooperation between treatment psychiatry and general psychiatry within the framework of what is called Shared Care. The expectation is that better cooperation can shorten the course of illness and ensure a greater degree of link with the labour market. Secondly, if we are to create a better place in the labour market for people with mental disorders, we must also take early action on signs of mental illness. The new right to treatment, to psychiatry, which came into force in the autumn, means that patients are provided and treated more quickly than has been the case so far. This also makes it easier for individuals to maintain a job, for example. The cashier who, because of anxiety, has difficulty doing her job. In the past, where she had to register for long - term illness, she is now diagnosed much earlier and is more quickly treated. This means that more people can maintain a job while being treated for a mental illness. Thirdly, we must be good at avoiding the need for proper treatment. Mental problems are the cause of 50%. of all long-term health reports and 48% of all long-term health reports. of all early retirement pensions. It is incredibly important that we bear in mind that distrust at work does not develop into a real mental disorder such as anxiety and depression. To this end, the Danish Health Authority has prepared a prevention package on mental health. In addition, the government has set seven national targets for the Danes' health • two of the objectives concern mental health. And in line with the 2014 agreement, we have set aside 7 million. kr. to a national partnership on mental health at work. There is reason to expect a great deal of this, and I hope that the jobs involved can become good role models for others. In conclusion, the government has set a great many things in motion so that people with mental illness can be guaranteed a link with the labour market. The goal is clear to the government: we must thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409150250	Thank you to the Minister for Health and Prevention. Then we start the debate and Mrs Jane Heitmann is the rapporteur for the questioners and starts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409150305	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the ministers for their contributions here today. I must also say that I am speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Most of us know enough about this because sometimes you can get a little tired of everything, you can get a little discouraged, and you can think about yourself: Stop the world I want to get off. Fortunately, most of us are quickly faced with this, but for some the feeling hangs around the work piles up, the family can hardly find any profit, and even the most banal everyday things like taking a bath or making dinner can seem completely incalculable. Every five Danes experience one or more periods of life with a mental illness as a companion. It costs society dearly, and new figures show 10 billion. kr. alone for depression sufferers. These are sad figures, and we must and must have changed that, not least because in today's Denmark we have 800,000 on public support and a large proportion of these people do not just have the challenge of being outside the labour market; they also have the challenge of being outside the labour market because of a mental illness. Having a job can in itself be healing. This is what Jesper Karle, a psychiatric specialist, said at a conference on depression and working life here at Christiansborg last month. In particular, in relation to depression, Jesper Karle pointed out that we need to get away from the dogma that peace and tranquillity are the way to get better. There should be a plan from the workplace, general practitioner and psychiatrist for the course, both in terms of possible reports of illness and when you are back at work and to what extent. If such efforts are to be successful, there must be good treatment options without long waiting times. The Carsten Koch Committee has just issued a report, and I quote: 'The expert group points out that waiting for psychiatric services is a barrier to the interaction between health and employment efforts. I share the expert group's assessment. All Danes should be given the right to prompt treatment so that they can quickly return to active leisure, work and family life, because no one gets well by being on a waiting list. But fast treatment doesn't do it alone. We must and must have broken down taboos and stigmatizations. I am aware that we have already taken several good initiatives through the pool of rates, both in the health and employment sectors. Nevertheless, we note that having a mental illness and being open about it is no-go for a lot of people. If you ask in the LO, 52 percent answer. of the members of the LO that it is not good to report ill with a mental illness. And the other day, I read a study that points to 21%. doesn't like having a colleague who has depression. So there is still a long way to go. But let us look at Canada for a moment; we have already done so in the pool. Canada has developed a voluntary standard which all companies can introduce. The idea behind the guidelines is to create awareness of mental preparedness in the workplace, as well as the preparedness that is known in many places for physical diseases by, for example, having a heart start. The national standard has taught more than 100,000 Canadians to perform mental first aid, and it has proved to be an excellent tool to break down both stigma and taboo. Even departments of the Canadian police have backed it up, and when I highlight the Canadian police, it is because in Canada, as in so many other countries in particular, it is difficult in the traditional man-workplaces to talk about the psychological working environment, although both men and women, as we know, can be affected by both stress, depression, anxiety and other mental disorders. Both the TrygFonden and the Psychiatry Foundation work together today on mental first aid courses; I have participated in one myself, and it was instructive. However, the courses focus primarily on people who work with mentally ill people on a daily basis. I am therefore delighted that there is broad support for exploring opportunities to spread awareness of mental first aid, and there is support for further discovering what experience has been gained in Canada in implementing a voluntary standard aimed at preventing and managing and improving both the psychological working environment and the way we can jointly help to break down taboos and stigmatisations. I look forward to following the debate today, and before I do so, I would like to read the following (on behalf of V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT) which all parties support: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that people with mental illness are not sufficiently associated with the labour market. The Danish Parliament notes: It is important to maintain the focus on the ability of people with mental disorders to achieve and maintain links with the labour market. A prerequisite for this is a spacious labour market combined with the provision of rapid investigation and treatment in the health system. It is essential that efforts be supported between employers, local employment centres, practitioners and psychiatry. Action has been taken to increase links with the labour market. It acts among other things. on action to strengthen the psychological working environment. Parliament calls on the government to increase its focus on reducing the number of people with a mental illness who have little or no connection with the labour market and to explore the possibility of spreading awareness of mental first aid, as well as the Canadian experience with a voluntary standard of mental health at work. • V 41).
ParlaMint-DK_20150409150836	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409150846	Thank you, President. It is social democratic heartblood that it is safe, safe and healthy to go to work in Denmark. It can be said quite simply. As far as possible, everyone should have the opportunity to experience the quality of life that a good and healthy working community can provide. That is why the psychological working environment is a subject of great importance to the Socialists and also to myself personally. That is why I am also pleased that we have the opportunity today to debate this issue in this Chamber. I believe that we have a basic task together to ensure that people with depression and mental disorders have a place in the labour market, both if the disease is temporary, but also if it persists. This requires both an inclusive labour market with room for people with mental disorders, but also a labour market that is constantly working to prevent problems. It is a difficult and important task. There is no easy way to improve the mental working environment. Overall, however, I believe that there are two tracks we should follow: inclusiveness and prevention. The labour market must be able to accommodate people with mental disorders. We need to build a culture that takes proper care of people with mental disorders in the individual workplace, and this requires us to recognise mental disorders in line with the physical ones. The work starts here in the Assembly Hall. The government has already taken steps in the right direction here. The agreement on working conditions, concluded before Easter, is a good example. However, the government's reforms on sickness benefit, early retirement and flexible work, as the Minister has already explained, also show that we have taken decisive initiatives to help people with mental illness stay in the labour market. We have focused more on prevention, equalising the psychological and physical working environment in the Working Conditions Act and spending 45 million. kr. to a targeted effort in the supervision of the psychological working environment. When it comes to mental illness, it should not be forgotten that this government has seriously focused on the treatment and response of mental illness. In the past there was a thought that there is a difference between mental and physical diseases. However, we have insisted that there should be as much recognition of mental disorders as of the physical ones in our health care. We need to look at depression and anxiety in the same way as we see on a broken arm, and at 2.2 billion. kr. to the psychiatry from 2015 to 2018 we have put action behind the words. The fact that we have begun to recognise mental disorders on an equal footing with the physical ones in both health and safety legislation is absolutely essential for us to tackle the problems. In addition to focusing on a inclusive labour market, we also need to focus on prevention. It is important that we in the workplace become better at spotting when our colleague is thriving badly. This requires knowledge about mental illness, and it requires knowledge about how we can help people who are having a hard time. At the same time, prevention efforts are about effectively monitoring those jobs where the risk of mental stress is greatest. With the Working Conditions Agreement, which I mentioned earlier, we have just secured this. This is a very good agreement and I look very much forward to following the work and the results. Unfortunately, the number of reported psychological injuries is increasing. In the last 10 years, we have seen an increase of 170%. This is not a development that we can be satisfied with. That is why it is crucial that we act now. A number of measures have already been taken to strengthen the psychological working environment. These are measures to increase the link with the labour market for people with depression and mental disorders. However, we also need to identify how the Canadian experience with a voluntary standard of mental health at work can be used here in Denmark, and at the same time we need to examine the possibility of spreading awareness of mental first aid. For the Socialists, it is a cornerstone of our society that we have a inclusive labour market. We must make room for all of us to be able to take part in the labour market. The effort is about creating a inclusive labour market and recognising that mental illness is serious and, at the same time, we must take action in terms of prevention, both in terms of knowledge and supervision. We have taken many important steps to ensure better conditions for people with mental disorders, and that work continues with today's proposal for adoption. I am delighted, and I am also pleased, that it is a united Parliament that is behind the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409151324	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409151333	Being mentally ill is difficult in today's Denmark, and if after such a debate I sat at home and had a mental diagnosis, I would think: What are they thinking about in there? How does it make me enter the labour market and become part of society? For we are talking about mental illness, as if it is one overall diagnosis, but it is quite different. Sometimes we talk about depression, anxiety, OCD, but there's also schizophrenia. In fact, there are many diagnoses. So just the fact that we are talking about it as a whole group, I actually think it helps to stigmatise a group of people. For some may be vulnerable, and some may have a diagnosis that makes them difficult to handle everyday things, like others can. In some situations, you can be more easily influenced. We're talking about working conditions. It doesn't mean much to those who now sit at home and are mentally ill. The only thing they hear is politicians who want to cut sickness benefits or push them into a labour market, give them resource processes that are long and that the municipalities take far too long to get them into. We are making reforms to try to secure it, but those sitting at home will still wonder and say: when are they doing something for me? We've started projects, but they're small projects around here. Some work and some don't work, and I think we're too bad to see if they work at all. I think the Minister mentioned that the SFI had carried out an investigation, but when you go in and look at what they are investigating and who they are investigating, you can see that this is not exactly the group we are talking about. They also talk about mentoring systems, which are very different from what people need. It is also said in the study that it is difficult to find a mentor who complements exactly the person who is going into the labour market or who needs to be kept there. Because what is important is to take account of the individual, to take account of the individual, and then to look at whether it is about stress, depression or some other vulnerability, for example. Schizophrenia, that is, what makes them have difficult working conditions. You start with the individual, and then you work from it and you get the person to join and be a part of it. Before I went down here, I had one of the projects we started with the bet pool, Sherpa, and they say that what they've been successful with is that they've got 32%. In education and 31 per cent. in ordinary jobs. And it's about treating mental disorders. That is also the difference. So sometimes we compare dirt and cinnamon, but we have to look at what it is that works and what it is we have to do more of. And fortunately, there are municipalities that start doing some of these things where you can see that it has its place. We have been very good in here at making reforms, but the problem has also been that when you have had to shoot it out to the municipality, the municipality has actually gone for six months and waited for them to get the conditions to continue working. And it has left citizens in a vacuum where they did not know what to do. I think that is something that can be lifted from in here, so we say that when a reform is being carried out and it is going to work in the municipality, it has to go a little faster. The resource cycle, which should be part of what was supposed to lift some of those who have a mental diagnosis, has also been a long time in the process. Now I know that there is a hearing next week to look at: what have we done and what can we do better? Because it hasn't worked the way you thought it could work when you wrote it down on a piece of paper. So I am afraid that sometimes we make a whole lot of paper drafts and policies to help the vulnerable, but which sometimes cause bigger problems. I am very pleased that we have sent out a letter to some of those on early retirement saying that they can put it on hold. Because that's where we have a problem. We can see that some of those who have been diagnosed have been lucky, it can be said, to get an early retirement pension at a time when it was a little easier than today. And what you can see is that they get quiet. They should not think about economic issues, they are not being pushed into something they cannot handle, and after a few years it actually turns out that they can get out of the disease that they have been given. And many of them want to go back to work, they're just afraid that they can't get back to early retirement if it turns out they can't do the job. And I know that we have sent letters to them and said: Listen, you can come back after you've tried this, and if it turns out that you're not gonna succeed, you can get your pension. Don't be afraid to lose it. Because it is important that we have the openness that we can say: we know they can be vulnerable, we know it can be hard on a labour market that is as stressful as it is today. And we must do a little more to ensure that, because it turns out that it has a meaning. However, I am glad that we have found some points on which we can agree and that we are still maintaining focus. We just have to remember that there are many different psychiatric diagnoses that we need to be aware of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409151900	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409151908	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are pleased that this issue of mental vulnerability to our labour market is being debated, and we would also like to sign and thank the rapporteur of the Left for bringing it to the Chamber today. It is important that this is a topic on which we keep a constant focus, and I am pleased that there is such broad political support to discuss and ensure some things that can help a group that is more vulnerable than most of us, but how many can and also would like to contribute, also have the opportunity. I am also glad that this continuous focus is being kept on this debate, because it is an area that is a long, cool move, because, as DF's rapporteur also mentioned, it is about a lot of things. It is a very complex area, it is many different sufferings, and it is often very complex circumstances for the individual and therefore also something that needs to be addressed from many angles. So it is certainly not simple, and that is why we must act in many areas at once, and we must give things time to work. Some of what this is all about, as several rapporteurs up here have said, is this: spaciousness and the psychological working environment. I am pleased with the Minister for Employment's statement that this is indeed something that we are giving priority to in the work on working conditions up to 2020, and something that will thus be the focus of attention. After all, it is also about our psychiatric treatment system: it is about securing the means to make the right individual effort here, ensuring the equality that we are working towards, with the physical treatment system, and here too we have taken good steps, both in terms of resources and equality with physical suffering. Then it is also a question of the schemes and interventions we put in place, for example flex jobs, which also work for people with a very small working capacity, and the holistic resource sequences in relation to potential early retirement workers, too, as the DF's rapporteur said, are being implemented in a way that actually makes them manageable both for the target group and, of course, for the municipalities that sit and make them. Then it is also a question of ensuring good bridges or transitions between standing outside, so to speak, and being in the labour market. Some of the new measures we have, for example, in relation to social economic companies can be an example of an effort that can have such a bridge-building function for some of the people who are mentally vulnerable but who want to find a way in. It may be that these socio-economic companies have more of the tranquillity and space needed to be strong enough to function in the ordinary labour market. However, one could also imagine that even more targeted priority could be given to better contact between jobs, i.e. between companies, and that the whole system around the mentally vulnerable, i.e. both the job centres and the other interventions, those who know something about the mental vulnerability, the treatment system, etc., so that these players could play more closely with the jobs to ensure the best efforts. In fact, it can be said that such a thing as this is a small example, but an example of some of what can be done: the psychiatry fund telephone line from the early retirement reform, where jobs can seek help and information in relation to this target group, is an example of how you can make a connection between different actors working on the same goal, namely to get some more in this group included in the working community. In addition, various things have been set out, initiatives in the Fund for Prevention and Sustainability, and some of the initiatives which are also in relation to the preparation of attitudes, which is the last thing I would like to mention in relation to important areas of action, because this is also so much about prejudices and stereotypes of mentally vulnerable people being reduced to a greater extent. In fact, as the Minister for Employment said, things are moving in the right direction, and that is very positive, and I believe that we must stick to the fact that this is an area where we need to do more and breathe into positive developments, because there is still much to be done both in relation to the drafting of the position and in relation to the general work on this agenda. That is why I am also pleased that so many people from up here are saying that this is something that we really want to help to continue to focus on. So thank you for that and thank you for the floor, and thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409152450	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409152500	It is very gratifying that there is a broad cross-political consensus to make greater efforts for people with mental illness to keep them on the labour market or to bring them into the labour market. In the proposal for adoption that has been tabled, I would like to highlight the point which is the most important for the SF. It says that it calls on the government to increase its focus on reducing the number of people with a mental illness who have little or no links with the labour market. This is very important. But I also think we have to admit that when we look at the tools to be used, there are probably a number of differences between the parties. However, it does not touch the joy that there is agreement that the area should be given priority. I would like to make three points on behalf of the SF. One point is that the effort to help people in this situation must be much more individual and a higher priority. The fact is that a number of projects clearly show that if you go properly into the individual's situation, the individual who has a mental illness and combines it with a corresponding thorough talk with a possible employer and workplace, then a great deal can be done. And that's good. I would refer you to a place called the Knowledge Centre of the Handicapid Trailer. In fact, this should probably be called the placement of disabled people, because it is very much the case. Here we have worked to start with some sports projects, as we are doing to some extent within the employment system, and it turns out that if you use sport as an approach, it can restore people's belief that they can do something if they have lost their self-confidence. And when that has happened, the Handiapid Trailer's Knowledge Centre, which is supported by the pool funds, goes in and it is good to have a thorough conversation with the disabled person, as I mentioned, about: What are the wishes of the individual? What do you think you can do? There is a similar talk with the employer and a vote of expectation, and it often ends up with the creation of a working relationship, possibly at a reduced time. So a greater individual effort on the part of the system and a higher priority for this work is absolutely necessary. The second point is that in a survey carried out by Rambøll Management among flex job ambassadors it is part of the employees at the job centres and they have to work with people with mental disorders to a large extent. of those who say they feel they have a high degree of need to work with this group of citizens. It is a disaster, it simply cannot be. And it is clear that it is more simple for a job centre employee to work with a person who has broken his leg than it is to work with a person who has depression or anxiety. The training effort must therefore be substantially increased in order for this to work properly. And I know that the employment reform is placing 30 million on the line. kr. annual training for job centre workers and cashiers, but it is a wide-ranging continuing training which also includes other things than work with people with mental disorders. That is why I must say as it is: I do not think that the 30 million. kr. In the case of 13,000 employees, each year is sufficient. I call for more money to be set aside for job centre workers to be better dressed to work with this group of citizens. The third point is that for SF it is very, very important that employers have a social responsibility. That is to say, as an employer, you have an obligation to have people employed who, in one way or another, have to be taken into account because they are part of our population. Some employers do, but there are certainly employers who sneak around. That is extremely unsatisfactory. There we have to come up with a system that can help these employers also take on their share of the obligation that we in the SF believe they have. A model that could perhaps be used is that you charge a tax to all employers in Denmark and that the money is paid into a fund. And from that fund, grants can be sought from the employers who will help recruit people to be taken into account, including people with mental illness. This means that all employers pay and thus we place their social responsibility on them, but the money is then spent by the employers who have the positiveness in them that they want to help create the inclusive labour market. So these are the three points that we from the SF would like to contribute to this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409153006	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. And then it's sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409153020	I think, first of all, that this is a very important debate which the Left is embarking on with this question. After all, we know that more and more people are suffering mentally, not least because of their working lives. Thousands lose their jobs because of a mental illness. Of course, some of them suffer from a mental illness, not because of their work, but far too many suffer permanent loss of their jobs. We hear about mental disorders due to violence and threats, bullying, harassment and stress. We have seen that these things have exploded in recent decades, and a great deal is due to the new labour market, where greater demands are made on the efficiency and flexibility of employees. I think we should look at the whole working life. We must look at threats of unemployment, demands for families with children and demands for leadership training. When we look at the new current labour market, I think we should look at the right of employers to direct and distribute work. In fact, this means that when many suffer from mental illness, it is due to the leaders, who first and foremost lack training and who have only one task, namely to make profits on production. It means people go down with stress. Some are subjected to bullying, threats, and harassment. Today, when we look at how much money it costs society for people to get long-term sick and tossed out of the labour market too early in their lives, we can see that it costs billions of dollars. Either way, I think we should do much more to ensure that people who have a mental illness have a place in the labour market. But we should also look at who can take a job. We know that many people have a mental illness which means that they cannot do a job, either always or over a long period of time. That is why I believe that a number of reforms, both under the current government and under the previous government, have in fact meant that many are being pushed further away from the labour market, for example. The reform of the sickness benefit area and the reform of the cash benefits system and, in the past, of the ceiling on cash benefits and the start-up aid, which actually make people poorer while trying to control their lives. People who suffer from a mental illness, for example: stress, depression or ptsd. It is psychic disorders where you need to be calm, while as a human being you need to be built up in cooperation with the health system. Only if people get peace and quiet and a fair income can they have the opportunity to return to the labour market. At the same time, we must also try to maintain people who have a mental illness. I have seen the new agreement on the working environment, but it is actually doing nothing to keep people who have a mental illness in the labour market. Unlike that, we have, together with the government and the SF, made an agreement on the Prevention Fund. It acts among other things. on retention in the Labour Damage Board, involvement of occupational medicine clinics, action against sexual harassment and switching to the mentally worn. I think it means something to those who have a mental illness. However, I would also like to stress that this is only the first step to seriously address the fact that thousands of people are excluded from the labour market. I think it emphasizes that there is a difference when the government cooperates with the civil servants, so nothing happens, or, to put it bluntly, it goes the wrong way, and when the government cooperates with us, then progress is made, even if it goes too slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409153355	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann, as rapporteur for the questioners, who would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409153430	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking both ministers for coming to the Chamber today and presenting the Government's views on how we can jointly improve the psychological working environment. I am very pleased with the statements made by all the parties in the Chamber today, and I am also very pleased that we are in agreement. I think it might be possible to say, with a slight insignificance, that it is quite unique that we can actually point out from the extreme right to the extreme left some things about the psychological working environment that we agree on and that we will continue to work on. I look forward to further work and to the highest extent to further cooperation. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409153518	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the proposal for adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 14 April 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150409153539	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 10 April 2015, at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
