ParlaMint-DK_20150204130015	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education and Research (Sofie Carsten Nielsen): Bill no. L 131 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Training and the Law on the Assessment of Foreign Educational Qualifications, etc.) Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill No. L 132 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services and the Law on Social Supervision. Transport Minister (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 133 (Proposal for a law on the construction of the south motorway on Regstrup). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 66 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on state and municipal enterprises for employees with disabilities). Brian Mikkelsen (KF), Mike Legarth (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 67 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the freezing of the ground debt in kroner and ear and the taking over by the State of responsibility for the collection of basic taxes). Per Clausen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 68 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection of the population against bisphenol A). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Question No. F 19 (How will the government, in the light of the current European discussions following the Greek elections, support a realistic solution to the debt issue in the EU countries most affected by the crisis?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130139	The first question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130149	Thank you, Mr President. My question is as follows: when the government, with a new bill, wants to introduce so-called intelligent border control, why not add more money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130203	It is quite right that we have put forward our legislative proposal for enhanced controls at border areas and airports, and we have, as I have said on other occasions, because, of course, as the Minister for Justice of the country, I would like to know what is actually happening at our border crossings and because we want to ensure that our authorities have the best means of controlling what is going on, so that we can prevent and deal with the problems that exist, both in terms of cross-border crime, but not least, as the proposal here is about illegal immigration and the problems that are associated with it. During the first reading of the bill, the questioner called it a patch solution. Of course, I do not agree with that at all. We do not applaud the immigration control of the proposal here, but we strengthen the control, so that foreigners who do not have a legal errand in Denmark and those there are unfortunately some of them can be apprehended as soon as possible after entry into the country and then sent to their home country. And just as important it is that foreigners who are legally resident in Denmark are treated in a proper way, just as important it is, of course, that foreigners who do not have a legal residence here are returned. The questioner then asks why no more money is being spent. This has been explained in the draft law. The aim of the draft law is to introduce a new and clearer legal framework for police control of foreigners in the so-called internal border areas and for flights to Schengen countries. Within this framework, the police are supposed to adapt control efforts at all times, both in terms of what is needed and, of course, also in terms of a specific professional police judgement. There is already a great deal of control here today, among other things. at Copenhagen Airport, which I myself have just had the opportunity to visit, but also at our border crossings. That's just not enough, and that's why we're increasing the intensity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130406	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130409	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. Well, that was a non-answer, I'm sorry to have to say. It is not meant as political rhetoric, but I do not really think that was the answer to the question. What puzzles me is that, among other things, we have to work together. in Kastrup Airport has been on the heels of checking what could then be called Scheng's external border, because that is what it is. There's a lot of trouble. By the way, the cooperation between the Copenhagen Police and the authorities at the airport works just now. Don't. And I can't really understand when there's been such a lot of focus on, among other things. Kastrup Airport that you do not give any more money for that control so that there really could be effective border controls. You can turn it around and ask: where should the money be taken from if it is the case that you add more money to Kastrup Airport? Who's gonna hold for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130510	I am aware that the Copenhagen Police have just chosen to prioritise the efforts at Kastrup Airport, and I think that sounds like a wise decision. But the whole point of the bill is, of course, that when we can exercise more intelligent control over what happens at our borders, we release resources. In other words, when we set up a passport scanner at Copenhagen Airport at some point, it is precisely in order for the millions of travellers who have a legal errand in Denmark and who do not come here for any purpose other than to visit us or otherwise be part of Danish society in a proper way, to be able to quickly scan the passport, so that we can release staff resources for travellers who may cause problems with wrong passports, forgery or other problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130557	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130558	As I am informed of it, there have been stories in Kastrup that, for example, there are: are two arrivals a day from Milan with among others. Somalis, where proper controls have not been carried out. Because when you want to apprehend someone, the Copenhagen Police must go and pick them up in a car and you have to drive into the police station and interrogate them. That is the very manning problem I think there is. Is it solved by the use of pass scanners alone? I don't think you do. Well, there's an understaffing out there; at least that's what I've been told. And what about the borders? It's the question of staffing itself, which is the problem, and there are, of course, these intelligent ways to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130649	Now the Danish People's Party is part of the conciliation circle behind the police economy and has therefore decided what kind of financial framework the Danish police can work within. When it comes to the specific priorities, it is a management task in the Danish police, which I also trust to be solved on the right basis. The Danish police have a great many tasks, of which controlling our borders, including illegal immigration, is a very, very important part. Now the questioner specifically mentions the Milan aircraft. In other words, as I have been told that story several times, the result is probably somewhat different, namely that it has actually been possible to uncover quite a lot of people who came here on a basis that required the attention of the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130738	Sir. Christian Langballe, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130739	Yes, but it could be a dispute over the emperor's beard. But by the way, let me just come back to what is central. When it is the case that Schengen's external borders are pierced as they are, and when it is the case that the government really can see that there is a fundamental problem, then I just cannot understand why you are not adding more funds to this area, simply allocating extra funds to get what you call intelligent control done. I do not understand why people are just saying that well, well, then it has to run as it does with the money that is there now, when you know that in some cases, at least, I would say, the police are understaffed in relation to some tasks. That is certainly the clear impression I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130829	Now it is important for me to say that it is the Danish People's Party which, as a conciliation party, has been involved in setting out the framework for the Danish police economy, and I assume that the Danish People's Party stands by that, since it is also still a conciliation party. After all, we must constantly assess whether the Danish police have the resources to do so, but there is just a discussion that is much more relevant, and that is how we use our police resources best. What we are seeing right now in Denmark is a fall in crime. At least we see a drop in the number of notifications which is very positive. We have had a very, very low level of forced entry for a number of years now. We see a huge fall in juvenile delinquency. Various explanations have been given for this, but I wonder whether any of this is due to the fact that today we have a more effective Danish police force which is actually able to perform a number of tasks. Exactly what we are doing at border crossings is a clear and good example of that. I would rather use police resources to uncover those who come here with a wrong purpose than have the police check all the many Danes and other travellers who travel completely legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130936	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130942	It is on the same street, and my question is: why does the government not introduce really intelligent controls and create real border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130949	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204130951	But it's a really intelligent control we're doing. I have not seen proposals from the Danish People's Party or anyone else who has come up with something that in the real world would work better than what we are putting forward now. It is not because I am going to say that we are necessarily done in this area, but that border barriers or old-fashioned customs officers should be more effective than, for example, license plate scanners, I actually find it hard to see. We must remember that the fact that people travel across borders is fundamentally positive. Freedom of movement is fundamental to Denmark, and the fact that, for example, you can work in other countries as a Dane, that you can go out is not what we have to criminalise; that is not what we have to make a problem. What we need to be able to do is to catch those who come here or leave Denmark for a non-legal purpose. There technology offers us some opportunities that we have not had in the past. The automatic license plate scanners are a very good expression of this, and that is why we would like to use them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131059	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131101	When I ask, it is a matter of principle. I believe that we are completely ignoring what is really the issue here, namely that there is a utopian notion of Schengen cooperation, that there must not be people at borders, and that in the draft law that has been tabled, it should not be the nature of border controls. So let us discuss instead that it is actually just a requirement within Schengen cooperation. I think it is unintelligent, because I believe that the people who could stand at a border are more intelligent than even the most intelligent border controls you can make because man is more intelligent than machinery. All it takes is for there to be some people down there. I don't imagine a red-and-white boom like that. I imagine that there are some people down there who are watching what is going on at our borders, and that means that they intelligently identify the places that may be problems at the border... cars or people who try to cross the border... and say: we take them. It's intelligent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131202	If we now take Copenhagen Airport, because it is an external border, it is not the Danish-German border, so when we talk about the external border, it is Copenhagen Airport that we have to take a great deal of interest in • then I think that the entry rate right now is about 25 million per year. That's a huge, huge number. I know that the airport is going into continuous, exciting growth considerations about perhaps increasing that figure to 40 million. When there is such a large entry to Kastrup airport, that is probably a very good argument for us to use the technology, because even skilled people can be wrong and even skilled people can miss something. It is the interaction between our skilled policemen and the new technology that I believe can really bring us the best results. May I just say that what is happening with the bill here is that the Danish police will have a new and general access to both stopping and controlling people travelling to Denmark from other Schengen countries, and it does not matter what forms of travel they may take.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131313	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131315	Now, the bill makes a lot of sense in pointing out that it must not be the character of a permanent border control. It's kind of comments that come over and over again in this bill, L 95. I'm not talking about either-or, I'm talking about boats-and. I am talking about strengthening the ability to have more staff while, of course, having scanners, pass scanners and license plate scanners, etc. Because that is the problem with Schengen, in other words, there is a lack of recognition of reality in relation to the situation we are faced with, namely that the external borders of Schengen are hollowed and that we are in a completely new situation where we have to look after our borders because we are thus looking after the Danes. And that is probably the purpose; that is probably the reason why we legislate in the Folketing, in other words to create a secure external framework for the legal situation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131416	However, it should be noted that the whole proposal is about tightening up controls, and that is not something I am doing for fun. I do so because quite a lot of the crime we see in Denmark is cross-border and because we have problems with illegal immigration. And these are problems that we should address and resolve for many reasons. We want to respect the fact that Denmark is part of European cooperation, including Schengen cooperation. And, of course, it is our job, within the framework that is, to find the solutions so that we can, of course, check what happens at our border crossings. I know that this proposal is the only proposal for many years that introduces some intelligent controls at borders, which I hope I have confidence in will lead to far more results than what we saw a few years ago, and which, of course, was about a customs effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131517	Sir. Christian Langballe, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131518	Well, what we tried last time and it was intelligent border control was both with license plate scanners and with pass scanners, and what was now available at that time, actually to take seriously the challenge of cross-border crime. And the only logical place to do a check is, of course, at the border. What is the matter with this bill, which we support, moreover, is that it should not be allowed to create permanent border controls. We are against that, of course we are. Why are we? We are for the sake of the Danes and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131556	After all, European cooperation can always be discussed, and I am happy to do so. As Minister of Justice, I am, of course, a little more concerned with combating both illegal immigration and crime in Denmark. And there it is my task, I think, to find the ways in which we can achieve the most results for the least resources because, of course, we always have a balance of resources and priorities. And now that we have a technology which has not been available in the past when experience has been gained abroad, and we also have a political desire on the part of the government for greater control of our border crossings, we have put forward the proposal here. I am also pleased that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal. This has not been heard all the time since 1 p.m. 12.00, but the Danish People's Party does, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131646	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. The next question is to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131656	Thank you, sir. President. What does the Minister intend to do in the case of Krifa's deliberate opt-out of ethnic Danes for their vacant student places and in future similar cases, where selected trainees are cut off from seeking and filling vacant posts simply because they are born of ethnic Danish parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131718	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131719	The Discrimination Act prohibits employers from treating applicants or employees differently because of, for example, their ethnic origin. This is true whether it is done directly or indirectly. An employer must also not write in job postings or vocational training notices that he does not want people of a particular ethnic origin or that he prefers a person with, for example, a professional qualification. a certain ethnic origin. The aim of the Discrimination Act is precisely to ensure that employers do not treat applicants or their employees differently because they belong to a particular ethnic group. As a minister, I cannot go into either this or any other case and make an assessment of whether the legislation has been infringed. It is ultimately a matter for the courts to decide. If you feel as a citizen that you are discriminated against by your employer or that you are seeking a job, you can contact the Equal Treatment Board to have your case tried. A complaint to the Equal Treatment Board is free of charge and, in the same way, a compensation may be made by ordinary courts if the prohibition of discrimination is infringed. So, in other words, there are opportunities to have your case tried if you sense that you have been illegally discriminated against.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131841	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204131843	Thank you. Well, I would like to thank you for the relatively modest answer that came to this question. But the reason for this question is not really so much that I, as a politician, object to the fact that the people who are employed at Krifa have a different background than Danish. I think it is a good thing to employ people with a different ethnic background, of course, but who work in Denmark. But what makes it cocky in this case is that it is proven to be an organization, as an employer, and says: in future we only want to hire the next 12 office students on the assumption that they simply have to have a different background than Danish. If you're Danish from background, you can't apply or get this position. This, of course, provokes me a great deal, because I believe that, as the Minister himself says, we should be equally right on the basis of the same law, and it also means that they should not discriminate against people on the basis of their race, gender, religion or ethnicity. That's what you do at Krifa's. That is what we are doing, and that is exactly what we are doing in the statements we have made. Against, among other things, After all, TV 2 has been said that yes, we discriminate, but we do, because we have a social responsibility. But of course we do not recognise this in the Danish People's Party. We do not think that it is particularly a social responsibility to keep Danish applicants away from seeking job vacancies. After all, we believe that all applicants should be treated equally. The Minister correctly mentions that we have a law on discrimination, and it also clearly outlines that there is a ban on discrimination. That is why I am so provoked by the fact that the Minister is simply saying that that is the law, and I will not do anything about it if the law is violated. So it will be in this case. There it is deliberately ignored and, as a politician, I have very few places to go but here in the Chamber on this matter. I cannot bring a case before the Equal Treatment Board because I am not a party to the case. I need an applicant to do that, but since it has not been possible to apply for the position as an ethnic Dane, no ethnic Danes have applied for a position. So why does the Minister not want to take an active part in this matter and why does the Minister not want to make it clear that the law must, of course, be observed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132107	Well, I hear there's a lot of things we agree on. We agree that it is important for integration to work, and we also agree that companies can assume social responsibility. It's important. I think it is, and fortunately we see plenty of examples of companies doing that, Danish companies do. It helps to give those on the edge of the labour market a chance to come back. Then there is nothing else to say but that although Hans Kristian Skibby thought it was a slightly lean answer I gave, I gave the answer that one can give as minister, namely that it is not I who can go in and raise these matters. There are the two bodies, as I said, namely the Equal Treatment Board or the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132150	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132152	Yes, but now I would say that I myself have more than ten years of experience here in the Danish Parliament with parliamentarianism, and I know that the minister has even more years on the back, both in the European Union and also here in the Danish Parliament and as a minister, and this is certainly not the first time that one can say as a minister: here seems to be a problem with an existing law, here is a law that needs to be changed. We therefore have hundreds of laws, yes, thousands of laws that are being amended in Denmark every year. I am then asking about the law on discrimination, which I think is very problematic in relation to the fact that no one has been able to raise a case at the Equal Treatment Board because they have not been able to apply for it. And if you can't apply for the job, you can't ergo be wronged. I think the Minister should acknowledge this and say that this is simply not right. It is not fair that Danish companies, Danish employers, can deliberately say that they will not hire a person because they are white and pale like all of us, I would have almost said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132248	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132250	It is true that this together gives a great deal of experience. I think we can conclude that, fortunately, there is no tradition for us in the Folketing to legislate on the basis of a single case where, moreover, there are mechanisms that can be used. And I'd like to say to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, that it was kind of what I quietly brought to the marketplace. There are mechanisms, and then you can think that they are good enough, or that they are not good enough, but there are mechanisms. And then I think we can agree that it is not me as a minister who is going to have to deal with such a type of matter on a single basis. I think we agree on this with our great accumulated experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132331	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132333	Thank you. Yes, but the only problem is that we have a minister who, in the answers I have received in the Committee on Gender Equality on S 11 and S 12, says that discrimination is illegal. Here we have a case in which it is done • it is fully documented that discrimination is being treated; Krifa will hire 12 office students, and they must have a different ethnic origin than Danish. Now let's imagine that it had been the other way around, that is, there was a Danish company owner who said, "You know what, I'm actually only gonna hire some people who are kind of white and pale in what I am; some of them are gonna be at my place of work. Then there would be an outcry in Denmark. That is where I say that this is a very obvious matter, where we can see that people are not being treated equally in the labour market. And I'm not saying that to bother those who have a different ethnic background from Danish... I think they should also be in the labour market, they should also apply for these positions, but it must be one's ability and skill that makes you get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132431	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132433	Well, I do not know if I can add so much more than that I have stated both in writing and orally that it is illegal. We must not discriminate, and that is not a matter for discussion. And then I have mentioned the instruments that can be put into use if you do so, the courts and the Board of Appeal, and then I guess I can't pull that answer so terribly much longer if I'm to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132501	The question is closed. The next question, however, is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132506-2	Thank you, sir. President. It deals with the same subject, but more on the basis of a political position on the part of the Minister: Will the Minister explain his political position on discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin, as is the case with Krifa, if it was a matter of reverse sign, where an employer would only receive applications from ethnic Danish pupils and who clearly stated in Danish media that they would not hire office students with a different background than Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132537	I do not think it comes as a great surprise to Hans Kristian Skibby that the answer must be the same far along the way, because whether one group is discriminated against or the other group is discriminated against is the same answer. You can't do that. There is therefore a ban on taking into account a person's association with a particular group of people on the basis of culture, religion, common history and country of origin. It is therefore also illegal discrimination if an employer indicates that he only wants to hire ethnic Danes or vice versa. That is such a very clear extension of the first question, and it can therefore be said that, if it is an extension of the first question, then the answer to the second question must be no. 2 also become the same, namely that there is no difference, whether it is one or the other ethnic group that is discriminated against.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132630	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132631	Of course, I agree with the Minister on that part of the answer. There should be no difference in the way one is treated. But the very essence of these two questions is that we can prove that there is a group of applicants who want a place as an office student in Denmark that is disadvantaged. There is discrimination at a Danish workplace. There are people who are told that they cannot apply for the job. The chairman of Krifa, Søren Fibiger Olesen, says verbatim that it is not possible for Danes with Danish background to apply for the vacant posts, and it will not be until 12 office students with a different ethnic background from Danish have been recruited. So there is elementary discrimination. The Minister mentions that a case can then only be brought before the Equal Treatment Board. As I said earlier, you can only do that if you are a party to the case. But no applicants have been sorted out because they have not been able to apply for the job. Therefore, they are not parties to the case and cannot submit a case to the Equal Treatment Board. The answer I have received from the Minister is that there is a split burden of proof in the cases that may come, and what you can get if you win a case at the Equal Treatment Board is that you can obtain financial compensation. But that is not what a young person is asking for as an office student at Krifa in Århus. The applicant has a completely different agenda, and it is, of course, a wish to have a student seat. I find it fundamentally problematic that the Minister is doing nothing but pulling his shoulders and saying that such is the law, and nothing can be done about it. I cannot really understand that, as I know, there are many laws in Denmark that are being changed every year. Many of the changes are due to EU regulations and directives, and a lot of them are also modified on the basis of changed Danish legislation. Here, then, is a matter which I think the Minister should take on his cloak by saying that this is a deliberate discrimination against applicants. Therefore, this law needs to be amended so that we ensure that ethnic Danes also have rights to apply for a vacant office job here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132847	Surely it is indisputable that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby is right that we adopt many laws in Denmark. The Assembly Hall here is proof of that. I also think that the starting point is that there must be a reason for this if you ask the Folketing to deal with a law. The second thing I would like to say is that I am happy to say that we are living in a democracy in which we have divided power threefold. We have the Parliamentary Chamber here, where the laws are passed, we have the ministers who administer the laws adopted by the Folketing, and if there are disputes, we have the courts with the Supreme Court right over here who judge in relation to it. And so we are at the heart of what we are discussing here, namely that all three things have been fulfilled in this matter too. There is no doubt that the Folketing has ensured that discrimination is illegal. There is no doubt that I, as a minister, am not going to take this kind of action, because we have the third part of the power to do so, i.e., if necessary the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132949	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204132950	I still think that I am going to go against the argument that comes from the Minister. Because I think it is a minister's responsibility to do something if, as a minister, you see someone breaking the law and the law does not allow you to come after those who break the law. The Minister has clearly said to me and acknowledged that Krifa does not comply with the law when they say that those who can get these 12 office students must have a different ethnic background from Danish. That is what the Minister says is illegal and that it is clear in the equal treatment law. At the same time, however, there is no legislation that allows us to go after them legally, and I cannot understand that. The Minister's reply says that we can then ask the Institute for Human Rights to do so, and there it seems comical that I have now twice actually called the Institute for Human Rights and moved to get them to raise a case. But if the case had now been reversed, where it was some with a different ethnic background from Danish who had felt discriminated against, then I think there had been a greater willingness to take up these matters. But where else should we go if we want to change these absurdities?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133053	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133055	I don't have to deal with that last thing. I don't think so, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby is right. But Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby shows exactly that there are some instruments. Because it is the case that we have given the Institute of Human Rights a role to play in these equal treatment cases, and this is a broad majority here in Parliament. That is also what I have now referred to many times in my answer. And the other is the courts. There is no doubt that whether one discriminates against one or the other ethnic group or one or the other religion or against one or the other sexuality, the law is clear. And it is also quite clear that there are opportunities for asserting its right, namely the courts and the Equal Treatment Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133140	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133142	Thank you. The minister says the case is clear. Yeah, that's what we're agreed on. It has been recognised that something is going on that is illegal with Krifa. There is a violation of the law on discrimination. But at the same time, the Minister says that, unfortunately, we cannot do anything about it unless there is an applicant who raises a case. No one can do that, for they have not had the opportunity to apply for these 12 positions; there will be no case. And if then the Institute of Human Rights doesn't think they want to use their resources to raise this case, then it's gonna close there too. So everyone actually agrees that something is going on that is illegal, but all or at least some people think so clearly that you cannot do anything about it. That is precisely where I think a minister should come forward, because his job is, of course, to ensure equal rights for equal law, and so there is not in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133236	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133237	That's right, but I think I could find other examples where Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby would be very concerned that the ministers remained within the framework that is now in place. And I would like to agree with you at all times. Hans Kristian Skibby in that it is very clearly defined in relation to the law of ministerial responsibility. That is what I have explained here today, and we are not entirely in agreement on that, I understand, and then we will take on that somewhat more fundamental ideological debate. I very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133310	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. The next question is to the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs of Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133321	Thank you. I have put a question to the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs: Does the Minister think that it is an expression of ghetto problems when we see examples such as in Slagelse, where taxi drivers, for example, are driving a taxi? Don't dare drive into the ghetto area Ringparken at night just because some of the street lights have been turned off, according to an article that has been in Zealand, where a taxi trucker says it's uncomfortable to drive in Ringparken, it's too dark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133347	Let me start by stating that most general residential areas are well-functioning and the starting point for a good life for many children and for many adults who live there. Unfortunately, however, there are also residential areas where things have gone wrong. The Ringpark in Slagelse is one of the residential areas that is challenged by a skewed housing mix and a very bad image. The consequences are known: Insecurity bites. We will have a situation where taxi drivers and others from outside do not want to drive into the area, and certainly not when the street lights are off. That is unacceptable and therefore the government is doing something about it. In these weeks, and Mrs Louise Schack Elholm knows this well, we are actually debating in the Danish Parliament the draft law L 107 on the use of Landsbygningsfonden funds for the next four years. After all, the bill translates the housing agreement of November last year, which I entered into with the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the SF. As you know, the Left and Liberal Alliance are not here. And it is a pity that we have just reached a good agreement which guarantees 465 million. kr. per year for 4 years for housing social interventions in our vulnerable residential areas. We are actually paving the way for social improvements, attractive housing, more residents in employment and a break with the isolation of residential areas, and security is a crucial element of this agreement. Both the housing social funds, the infrastructure pool and the money within the physical investment framework must be given priority in terms of security-building efforts, including in Ringparken. In Ringparken they have an overall plan which gives priority to security in the residential area, so I wonder if the housing organisation and the municipality will also deal with problems with the turned off street lights in Ringparken. There is no doubt that this is a bad place to save, and we all know that good street lighting is essential for you to feel safe wherever it is, whether it is in Ringparken in Slagelse or whether it is somewhere else, for example. In Rungsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133548	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133549	Well, I'm glad the Minister recognizes that there are security problems in many of these places. Ringparken was just an example that was recent. One could also have mentioned Motalavej in Korsør, where there is also enormous insecurity. So I am pleased that the Minister recognises that there is an insecurity here. But then the minister says that it is to the same extent a problem in the moment I cannot even remember where it was the minister said Rungsted, I think the minister said. Does the Minister think that there are the same security challenges in a residential area in Rungsted as there are in Ringparken or other areas on the government ghetto list?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133630	What I said was, it can be uncomfortable if the street lights are off, including in Rungsted. But it is clear that there are some particular challenges, as I have also explained in my first answer, in relation to the Ringparken in Slagelse. By the way, I've been visiting there myself. In fact, I think I explained that we have reached a very good agreement which ensures a stable, high priority for the interventions in the particularly vulnerable residential areas such as the Ringparken in Slagelse. And these are new initiatives where we put security first; that is simply what goes on for everything, whether it is renovation or infrastructure, where you can break up some of these vulnerable residential areas, or that is the whole of the housing social effort. The new thing is that we must also take up our action plans once a year to ensure that they work as intended, and I think that will work in Ringparken as well. And I wonder if you can't come after it and get those street lights turned on in Ringparken in Slagelse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133725	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133727	Thank you for your answer, but I think the Minister is confusing it a little with the next question I have, which is about the settlement itself. Instead, however, I asked about the comment made by the Minister in relation to the fact that there were also security problems in Rungsted. Because I actually think that these are different issues that we have here. So, there is a very special problem with these residential areas that are on the ghetto list because they are more insecure and people are more worried about moving in there. It is precisely when people who do not live there do not want to go in there that we have an escalation of the situation, and therefore it is a problem that they stay away because they do not feel safe. So I would just like to make sure that the Minister agrees with me that the problem we have in the country's ghetto areas is quite different from the problem we have in quite ordinary residential neighbourhoods, for example. Rungsted, as the Minister himself mentioned, in terms of security.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133821	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133822	Yes, you are not far into the discussion until you discuss what you have said yourself, and you know that best yourself, but it is actually the case that we give priority to security at the top of the list. Because I believe, and the conciliation circle believes, that security is absolutely essential for us to have a better mixed household composition and that you like to be in the area where you live; it is absolutely essential for all people. What I also said was that in the Ringparken in Slagelse they have an overall plan which also prioritises security in the area. So don't you think the housing organizations and the municipality are gonna take care of the problems with the turned off street lights in Ringparken? Then I say that there is no doubt that this is a bad place to save. We all know that good street lighting is essential for us to feel safe at night when it's dark, and that's what I said, whether it's in Ringparken or in Rungsted, and that's where Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm might misunderstand it. I just think that good street lighting is important to everyone when it's dark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133916	Then it's the last round, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133918	Well, I just hope that this means that the Minister will then be able to answer me clearly that these are not the same challenges you have in Rungsted as you have in Ringparken, because that is really just what I want to be sure the Minister means, because I do not think that was clear from the Minister's reply. The minister keeps on talking about the housing settlement, which is what my next question is about, so we will talk about it, but I would just like it to be clear that the Minister understands that the problem in these ghetto areas is far more extensive and that the problem of turned off street lamps is therefore also somewhat greater in relation to areas such as Ringparken than it is in a residential neighbourhood in Rungsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204133956	Well, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm is trying to put some words in my mouth I haven't said. I just said that good street lighting is important everywhere, but in fact a comprehensive plan has now been drawn up that focuses on security in the Ringparken in Slagelse, and that when we put security at the top of the agenda, it is because it is crucially important, I think, for the people who live in the area, that security is present and therefore we prioritise it in this area. That is why I am a little surprised that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm is so concerned about the conditions in these vulnerable residential areas when the Left did not want to join. However, get on the ground and be on the stand just to stand outside and shout in the woods without having any influence on the things that are happening, because security is absolutely crucial, I agree with Mrs Schack Elholm. I think we have a very good agreement that ensures a stable and high-priority effort, including in the specific residential areas such as Denmark. Ringparken in Slagelse, with a large number of good initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134051	The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs of Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134058	Yes, the Minister has already addressed this issue in relation to the previous question, but my next question is: why has the government not given the housing companies new tools to combat ghetto problems in the new housing settlement when there are still major problems with people who feel insecure about moving in the country's ghetto areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134120	Yes, that is in some way in line with the previous question, because that was the kind of concrete action that was discussed. But the Left isn't in the deal. The Left does not vote in favour of the bill, which we are discussing in the Folketing, on the future of vulnerable residential areas and the general sector in general. The explanatory statement of the Left, says Mrs Schack Elholm, is that there are no new tools to improve the security of the particularly vulnerable residential areas and that we will simply empty the Landsbygningsfonden for money. There is no connection in that statement; that alone is a bad excuse, I think, for not wanting to take responsibility. The new feature of the agreement is precisely the massive focus on security and well-being; the central focus of the entire housing agreement is actually security. Specifically, it is something new that work on security is not isolated from the housing social funds, as was the previous agreement. In order to obtain renovation funds for infrastructure support, it must also provide security, and a crime prevention device must be addressed in the application to the Landsbygningsfonden. For example, security-building renovations are: new entrances with video phones and a higher resistance to vandalism. It can also be a change of shady, dark and deserted corners, hooks and paths in residential areas, and it can be a completely new arrangement of parking areas, sheds, garbage rooms, etc., which ensures the natural surveillance of the residents and which prevents free play from criminal troublemakers. Safety-building infrastructure improvements are a greater degree of integration with a neighbouring city, so that there will be a natural increase in traffic, as we now see in Gellerup, where the change is under way, i.e. also by people who do not live in the area; they are lighter and wider traffic routes linking important urban functions that can ensure more traffic and more people on the street. The roads of the areas are not just supposed to be deserted between blocks A and B. All these changes are meant to increase security. They also contribute to the physical integration of the city and will have a positive development for social integration, and they must, of course, go hand in hand with the housing social initiatives. So the long, tough move is needed. As something new, all the overall plans must have a contingency plan for dealing with security problems, and there must also be a one-year review. That's quite new. Then we also set up a travel team to advise the vulnerable residential areas with acute security problems. These are all new things where the Left would not be involved and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134340	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134341	Now the Minister has devoted a great deal of his speaking time to talking about everything I did not ask. I have to tell you quickly why the Left is not in the settlement. This is because you lend the Landsbygningsfonden to a degree so that those who are tenants in 10 and 15 years will have less money to renovate because you are using them now and you are doing nothing compared to the ghetto effort. That is what I am trying to illustrate here. I am aware that the government has proposed that, in case everything goes wrong and burns on and there's fire and everything out in the Gellerup Park or in any other of these areas, there should be a plan for how to get out of there again. I think that is nice too, but it would be nicer to solve the problem before it arises. It would be nice to have something a little more progressive, a little more forward-looking. Then the minister has said: Well, we have an emergency team. Yes, it's really nice to make an emergency team that comes from within the center of power and says: Try to hear here: We know much better than you how to solve all the problems. By the way, this is not a mandatory rapid reaction team. But I do not believe very much that these two solutions can help to solve the problems, among other things. experience in Ringparken and elsewhere. So what are the other things that are going to help in these ghetto areas? What are the new, other things that should help to make an area such as Gellerup or Vollsmose easier to travel in and safer, that is to say, to have fewer criminals, fewer parallel societies?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134509-2	I don't know how Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm feels, but the memory may be a little short. She may have forgotten what the practice is of concluding agreements; it is they that are included in the agreements that influence them. And I am sorry that the Left has left it out, but I am here with an overview of the differences. We can discuss why the Left is outside; I do not understand why you do not want to take responsibility. However, there is an objective of social clauses so that we also ensure that some of the young people can have a learning and internship place. There is a housing social effort in which we ensure to the greatest extent that there is security and well-being, that there is a break with negative social heritage, and that clear management is ensured that these are completely new points. In addition, we are introducing a contingency plan. May I just say about the contingency plan that it has to deal with what you do when things go wrong, as it may have done in Ringparken or in Bispehaven in Aarhus or elsewhere. Because something can always happen. We prevent everything we can, but we also put in if that happens. It's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134609	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134611	Well, thank you very much for that statement. It made it quite clear that there is nothing other than what I had already mentioned, because I asked for the targeted initiative in relation to the ghetto problems, and there are none of them. That is why the Left is outside; we do not think that there was enough perspective in this agreement. There is nothing to give new tools to housing associations so that they can put an end to parallel societies more effectively, so that they can put an end to crime. Instead, we have watered down the ghetto criteria a few years ago, making sure that it was much easier to get off the list if you had criminals or parallel societies in a ghetto area. So that was clear and clear talk: there are no initiatives in this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134652	I'm sure we can hear that the election campaign is close. It seems like you might as well water a goose. But I am trying to explain all these new initiatives, which a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has introduced: there is a one-year review of the full-year plans, because there are some that are going wrong, and therefore it is important that you get them to work. Indeed, all preventive action is better in our vulnerable residential areas. Crime has actually been decreasing. There are several young people who are being educated. In fact, more people have a link with the labour market. But there's no Columbus eggs here. It is only hard work: cooperation agreements, follow-up to the agreements that exist, guaranteeing clear management, ensuring that, if things go wrong, the problem can be dealt with quickly. All this is new, but Mrs Louise Schack Elholm will not recognise that. The truth is that the Left has chosen to sit with crossed arms without taking responsibility for a million Danes living in the non-profit sector. I'm sorry, but that's the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134749	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134750	I think that the overall plans put in place by the VK government in 2010 are a very good tool, which is why I would have liked the government to have gone further along this path and to have developed the overall plans, to have developed the tools that could be used in these housing companies. When the VK government was in power, we introduced flexible and combined rental. Perhaps you could have tried to look at the toolbox and said: Can we now come up with new tools to help the housing associations? But you gave up an obvious opportunity. So, you empty the box up to 2032, and you don't come up with new tools for the housing associations so they can get rid of parallel societies and crime. I think that's a real shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134826	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134827	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's findings are, in fact, far beyond the question. But I am just sorry that instead of being constructive and taking co-responsibility outside of it, the Left does not recognise that, of course, we must take account of the experience we have gained from the previous agreements. I think that's perfectly natural. However, building on upstairs with a number of new tools that give us tools for clear management is crucial. Coordination of the efforts made in the municipality, housing social efforts and what is otherwise done by integration efforts is important. The fact that we have the police with us when we talk about crime prevention, the whole of the SUB effort, which we share with a major initiative that starts to work in relation to crime prevention: all these things are new, but the Left has chosen to sit outside of it. That's a shame, but there's nothing I can do about it. So I guess the redberries are just a little sour: 1.5 billion. kr. A year, the Left will join, 3 billion. kr. against the 18 billion. kr., we dropped off.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134922	The question is closed, so thank you to the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs. The next question is to the Minister for Education by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134933	Thank you. And the question is: is it with the Minister's blessing that very negative information about the social responsibility of private schools was provided in the 2015 school elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134949	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204134950	It is the case that the school elections, which I think are extremely important that we have now held and which are to be held again in 2017, are precisely 25 issues that should be shared. One of the ideas of that is that democratic formation is also that one shares one's views, and therefore there are different types of matters of particular interest. These are key issues that have been selected on the basis of some workshops that have been among others. At Folkekonference Bornholm last year. The political youth organisations have been aware of the choice of the 25 key issues. It's just to say that there was an open process in relation to the choice of them. And then I think we just have to go with the idea that if we want a school choice where we have to work with attitudes, then there will also be attitudes. But this does not change the fact that there has also been a request from the Danish Friskoleforening, and there has been a meeting with the Danish Friskoleforening, which has made some constructive suggestions not to remove the mark, but on how to nuance the mark. And that will, of course, be part of the evaluation and follow-up to the next school elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135050	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135052	It is a good thing to have that information, because in this way we must have learned a little from the fact that there have been at least some people who have approached and asked whether the way in which this had been presented was also reasonable. So I hope that this is one of the things you want in the back of your head, even when you evaluate school choices in the future. I would actually like to ask the Minister to answer: does the Minister not think that one of the main issues which had been raised here could in fact have been that the private schools take social responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135134	As I said, the choice of the causes is something that has happened on the basis of a dialogue, of workshops. The political youth organisations have been aware of this. What I can also add to, and which can be very useful, is that we also have the Parliament of Youth of the Danish Parliament. And it has to be said that the social responsibility of private and free schools is, in fact, something that the Youth Parliament is always concerned with. Then you can always discuss whether it should be formulated in one way or another, but what is the political debate is whether there is sufficient social responsibility, and that is where the political debate is. Now all the issues are designed so that there is both a front and a back, so that you do not just get one side of the argument. More I would like to stress that we have of course listened to some people think it was too unmanageable, and therefore there is a dialogue with the Danish Friskoleforening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135218	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135218-2	Thank you. When you, like me, have seen the actual case here, you think it is presented in an incredibly unmanageable way, i.e. it is really one-sided. And I would also like to ask the Minister what the teaching idea has actually been about, in this way, that pupils of 14 to 15 years of age should be presented with relatively one-sided attitudes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135252	The idea is, of course, that through a position which may of course be one-sided there was another about free hashish, it can also be said that a one-sided attitude has been tightened up where the various value and attitude discussions lie. However, I would like to stress that we have heard the same criticism that the Left has heard, and that is why there is a dialogue with the Danish Free School Association. I am sure that we can get it nuanced in a way so that you don't do it completely indifferently as statements because it's a discussion that runs but in a way, so the nuances are included.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135323	Then there's an enquirer, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135326	Thank you, President. I am glad to hear that the Minister is laying down flat. I say that, of course, because we are approaching an election campaign. If it had not been so close to an election campaign, I would say that I am pleased to hear that the Minister is in good dialogue with the association of free schools. It is stated in the paper for school elections: Denmark wants the world's best primary school. That is why the money for schools must be used for that very purpose. But it's going to be 5.1 billion. kr. a year to private schools. That's a slightly colored statement. You could have written, "Does it smoke 5,1 billion?" kr. out of the treasury to the free schools, or is it not just a good business for the state of Denmark that we have the free schools? For 100%. That's 7 billion. kr., and it was so money you should have pulled out of the box. Now you can settle for 5.1 billion. kr. Isn't it basically a good business for the Treasury that we have the free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135430	I think, in fact, that the questioner well illustrates why it is a really good choice of priority as such, because it raises political discussions, and it should do so. It could also have been designed in reverse, which is perhaps what the questioner is asking, and has said: there is a need for many more private and free schools, because it will be a really good business for the state. It might also trigger some criticism from others. I think the important thing here is that it is a matter of priority that concerns young people. We can see this from the workshops that have been and from the Parliament of the Parliament of Youth. We have a dialogue with the Danish Free School Association in terms of nuance, but still so that the value debate can be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135504	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135505	So back to my point: it is in the paper as if free schools are an expense to the state. If we did not have any free schools and all the students of free schools had attended primary school, then it would have been an expense of 7 billion. kr. This means that some parents have chosen to put their children in the free schools and, of course, they must be allowed to do so, if that is what they want to do, then the state saves 2 billion. kr. Well, we actually have 2 billion. kr., we can do something good with. The whole point is that something has to be done to take additional social responsibility in the free schools, and now we have a saving of approx. 2 billion kr., should we not jointly invest it in ensuring a better framework, so that a free school was compensated in the same way as a municipal primary school, and so that we see more of a social responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135559	So, I am actually quite excited to hear with what commitment the questioner from the Left is entering into the debate, because it is precisely with the commitment that the key issues have been chosen. And, of course, they represent different political positions, not just a few parties, they should be able to reach the spectrum around. But again: some have seen that private and free schools and social responsibility were too unmanageable, and we have a dialogue with them about that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135619	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135623	Thank you. I think this is one of the good debates, because here you can feel that something is happening, for every single time you ask a question, and that's nice. Because just as my colleague has just said, we could turn it upside down and say: how much do we really save by having free schools? How much extra we really get is that there are free schools, where they actually save more than 2 billion. kr.? And could one not turn it once and say: The more we have of them, the better? That is actually what I would like to end this question by asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135705	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135707	Now it is good at school elections that the cooperation between the Danish Parliament and the Ministry of Education is precisely that we should not go out and have an opinion on it. We can have that here, but we shouldn't have that with the school elections. We need to make it clear that there are different issues that represent the whole political spectrum. There are, for example: also a case that is called: Remove the top tax. I could imagine that there were also some who could fall over it and say that it could perhaps be formulated in such a way that it would create a huge inequality in Danish society, and could it not have been the cause of the mark? It is just to say that it shows that it has struck somewhere in what gives rise to a debate. And, as I have also indicated, there has been a criticism that it was too unmanageable, and we are looking at this in the evaluation forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135748	The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Education by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135757	Does the Minister not consider it important that oversized myths about the social responsibility of private schools should not be passed on to pupils taking part in the school elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135809	I sense that the issue is entirely in the wake of the last round of questions, so I do not think I can contribute so much news. There must be the nuances that must be. We have a dialogue with the Free School Association, and I am sure that it can be landed very sensibly, but so that there still has to be but the nuances must be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135832	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135835	But it is also the case that we, parents, know very well that in that particular age group, i.e. when you are in the 8th or 9th grade, you are affected by things. That is why I have to say that I was actually surprised that we have presented the issues as unilaterally as we do, at least in the field of open school, and that we have not ensured that we have got one more thing to say. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister: has the Minister not been involved in the matter of nodding the mark here? Has the Minister not been aware of the mark itself before it was laid out publicly?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204135926	It is the case that the school election is a collaboration between the Danish Parliament Administration and the Ministry of Education, and the Danish Parliament Administration is the project owner for it. The Ministry, together with the Danish Parliament's Administration, has approved the concept for the main issues, which were then developed by Advice A/S, but in addition to workshops and with the involvement of the political youth organisations. So in this way we have approved the framework and we think that this also shows that it creates the political debate that exists. A specific criticism has been raised, and moreover we evaluate all the issues in relation to the whole process, and we have a dialogue with the Danish Friskoleforening about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140004	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140005	As I understood the Minister's reply here, the Minister has actually nodded to the fact that it was in this way that the private school label case was then presented during the school election campaign. In other words, the Ministry of Education has been involved and just like nodded yes to the concept and the way things have been presented. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140027-2	It is true that we have nodded 'yes' to the concept, but the concrete work is done right down to the details on the basis of the concept. That is why it must also be the case that when it is the first time there are school elections and it has always been the case that it should be evaluated then we take that criticism in and then we look at it in the light of it. That is why we have a dialogue with the Free School Association, which has come up with some proposals that give some better nuances, and that is a sensible way of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140053	Then it's mr. Peter Juel Jensen as an enquirer. Or maybe it isn't?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140108	I had actually made myself comfortable because I didn't think I was a co-author on this question. But, of course, since the chance is there, I would like to seize it, President. I came before with an outstretched hand to the Minister, and we want to help a minister every time a minister wants to make wise choices: I brought it into play that you could take what you now save by that barely 20%. of the Danish have chosen to send their children to a free school, and then invest the saving of just under 2 billion. kr. in ensuring that free schools are paid in exactly the same way as our primary schools, when it comes to a child with challenges that make it necessary to spend a little extra money from the cash register. Shouldn't we do that? Shouldn't we use the 2 billion? kr. to invest in free schools so that we can be sure that they have an economic opportunity to take greater social responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140159	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140200	Again, I just have to say that the vivid commitment, as Mr. Peter Juel Jensen shows that it is of course a matter of great importance. It must of course be presented in a proper manner so that the nuances are there. If we are going to have a discussion on free and private schools, I think that we are doing the best we can by doing so when it is not the school elections that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140221	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140222	The reason why we can have this good debate now and here is, of course, that, as the case is put before us, it is up to us to condemn the free schools. Because it says they cost the state 5.1 billion. kr. That's a saving. So what we in the Left just want is that when we have this school choice and you sit and nod to something in a ministry, it's every time presented in such a way that it's also messed up in reality, and it doesn't actually have this. It can be reversed 180 degrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140300	Fortunately, it is the case that all the causes can be reversed, depending on which party would present them. Let me again mention free hash. I personally do not want that as a matter of priority, and I would think mine too if my child were to come home and just argue for free hashish or to remove the top tax, which is another of the highlights. But that is what it is all about: they must learn to get involved in arguments; they must find out how to seek information; they must learn to seek out those who think differently from themselves. That's what the school elections are all about. That is what democracy is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140331	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140332	Thank you. Finally, I should like to ask the Minister whether he is aware of the evaluation that will then take place. Is this something on which the Minister for Education actually has an opportunity to inform the Education Committee afterwards? Or is it through the Danish Parliament's Administration that we as committee members should have the information on what they were evaluating, what they found and what they might want to correct before the school elections in 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140410	It is Parliament's administration that is the project owner, but I am sure that if I get a committee question, we can help and be intermediaries in getting that information. Of course, information can be obtained on the evaluation to be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140425	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Education. I might add, as the Danish Parliament has been involved here, that I do not believe that neither the Minister for Education nor the Minister for Education, and I can say that with certainty, I myself have participated in the editing of the texts on these issues. The next question is to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140455	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister if it is the Minister's view that a new train bridge over Vejle Fjord is a prerequisite for a rail link to Billund Airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140517	Thank you for the question. Yes, a new train bridge over Vejle Fjord is even an important prerequisite for a rail link to Billund Airport. This is due to the fact that, in addition to providing significant travel time gains for train passengers, the bridge also provides more capacity, more robustness and better regularity in the roadmap. The problem must be seen in conjunction with the capacity of the old stretch into the town of Vejle and at Vejle Station. If the bridge over Vejle Fjord is dropped, all the upcoming super-lightning trains will have to go via Vejle. As you know, the time model is based on an operational concept of priority correspondence, where regional trains meet the super-lightning trains in the hour model cities with short shift times. If this concept is to be maintained in Vejle, the station will have to handle a total of five or six trains at the same time at the station, and there is simply no room for that. Specifically, this means that if we do not build a Vejle Fjord bridge, you will not be able to make a good and timely service via a new runway to Billund Airport by up to three trains per hour through Grejsdalen or good connections further from Vejle. Or to put it another way: If we do not build the bridge over Vejle Fjord, the service to either Billund or Herning must be reduced, or you have to accept more delays, and I don't think anyone is asking for that. This means that the many train passengers going towards Billund, Herning and Struer will have a longer overall journey time because regional trains no longer fit in with the super-lightning train of the hour model. The Vejle Fjord bridge is therefore not only important for the rail link to Billund Airport, which the question is about here, but is actually also of benefit to passengers in large parts of the rest of Jutland. This is because the Vejle Fjord bridge contributes to more capacity on the railway, which in turn is a prerequisite for the possibility of more frequent regional operation in East Jutland. You don't get that option without a bridge over Vejle Fjord. Finally, the road map analyses also show that without a Vejle Fjord bridge you will not be able to maintain the possibility of direct links between Århus and Esbjerg. All in all, there are plenty of good arguments for a Vejle Fjord bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140737	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140740	Thank you for your answer. With the direct link between the two things and the fact that the investments in the Train Fund DK, as I understand it, must be made at different stages, so that the Billundbane must be completed by 2019 or 2020, I would like to ask: if it turns out that problems arise in relation to the conditions for financing the Train Fund DK, would it be the Government's position that there should be a priority among the individual parts of the investments in the Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140822	No, it is not, and it is also in the broad conciliation which, unfortunately, the Left is not part of. However, in a broad settlement from right to left in the Danish Parliament, it has been agreed that this project, which is partly about a much-needed electrification of the Danish railway and partly an extension, so that we get faster trains and better train service • not least in the East Jutland area, which the question here today is about • to be implemented as described. In fact, the previous government also said, when you sat on these benches, that the Danish railway was the flagship in public traffic. Today, you don't want to spend a penny on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140858	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140900	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140907	There are two more times 1⁄2 minutes if desired. But then we say thank you. Then the next question to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140919	Thank you. On 11 December the Minister of Transport reached a settlement on the departure of Bornholm. The settlement has been given a tough deal, including from the Tourism Industry Cooperation Forum, which, in a letter dated 20 January to the Parliament's Transport Committee, regrets the conciliation. In 2011, the tourists at Bornholm had a total consumption of 1.8 billion. kr. and thus ensured an added value of 572 million. kr. to Bornholm and a total employment of almost 2,000 years' work. Does the Minister agree that the settlement could have major financial consequences for Bornholm?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204140959	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, I am satisfied that a broad majority in the Folketing took responsibility and agreed to the settlement on the ferry service of Bornholm, which was concluded on 11 December 2014. I am also pleased that the author's own party, the Left, is in the agreement and took responsibility. However, as Minister for Transport, I also understand that the island of Bornholm is dissatisfied with several parts of the agreement. It can be said that increasing costs really make it impossible to maintain the current service while at the same time lowering the fare as significantly as there have been Bornholm's wishes. That is why, as the questioner knows, he himself attended a number of meetings in the conciliation group that had to give priority to the funds. After all, there are some points in the conciliation which favour the tourist industry, and then there are some points which draw the other way. I'll try to review these. We agree in the conciliation circle to maintain a strong service level with a high frequency and capacity during the tourist season. This ensures that in the future there will also be intensive ferry service by Bornholm with fast ferries during the high season. There are three other factors which also benefit the tourist industry. Firstly, because of the agreement on a growth package, funds have been released so that in the new contract we can reduce the good price by approx. 60% in the ticket hatch. It strengthens the framework conditions for business on Bornholm and, of course, indirectly also the tourist industry. Secondly, the current agreement provides for the operator to reduce the average prices of ordinary passenger tickets by 10%. I expect that it will be particularly attractive for the operator to focus the price reductions in what is called shoulder season, i.e. immediately outside the peak season, where lower prices will be able to attract more visitors to Bornholm. Our example calculations show that if the lower prices are applied uniformly outside the high season, prices can be reduced by up to 20%. and maybe even more if it's just during the shoulder season. This is, of course, something that will be good for the Bornholm tourism industry. Thirdly, and I will be very brief here, the offer will be such that it is they who can deliver the absolutely lowest price that wins.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141218	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141220	Thank you. I'd like to try to lock myself to the reserve capacity. It is therefore necessary to be able to move 9 000 passengers on maximum capacity days. You can, if everything claps. But if there are too high waves, or if there is a fish box in the speed ferry's engine, or if there is too much eelgrass, etc., then the speed ferries cannot sail. Then there's the reserve capacity that this settlement is setting out for. It is expected that a ferry will be used to move 400 passengers. If we then have a speed ferry that breaks down on a maximum capacity day, then it will take an incredible number of trips with 400 passengers to move the 9,000. This calculation is simply not consistent, and when tourism is the island's second largest industry, you are gambling with the economic progress that Bornholm had hoped to achieve on an equal footing with the rest of the country. Does the Minister still think this is a good settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141327	I can of course repeat what I started by saying, namely that I am satisfied that a broad majority of the Parliamentary Assembly, including the author's own party, the Left, who is the conciliation party, has taken responsibility and has reached this settlement. This is stage one. If there is a majority in this House, then there can be a stage two in which, if we succeed, we will have some more money that can be put into effect. I hope that the Left is ready for that too. At least I am personally ready for that so that we can try to achieve what was not the means for in stage one, and so that we can end up with something that is actually going to benefit the Bornholmers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141413	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141414	Allow me to repeat the Minister's last sentence: then we could end up with something that could benefit the Bornholmers. It is not exactly in the same tone as what the Minister started with. Well, then this was an incredibly good settlement. I am sure my own party would like to be involved in spending extra money. But that presupposes that the executive makes the money bag bigger. Because we will not fundamentally change the reserve capacity unless the money bag grows, and the legislative power cannot provide that. It is the executive who must find extra money to ensure that we can have a greater reserve capacity for the days when the speed ferry does not sail. Is the Minister prepared to go to the Minister for Finance and help to ensure that the money bag is increased so that a more settlement can be reached that meets Bornholm's needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141509	I described stage one of my first answer here. That was a completely sober answer, and I would like to reject the fact that the questioner is wrong in quoting me. Because that is not the case. I haven't cheered over this. I have said that it was difficult because prices have increased. This is not an easy exercise, and I am pleased that there is a broad majority including the Left, i.e. the author's own party which helps take responsibility for this conciliation. I am satisfied with that, and I think we should work together that way. There may then be a stage two, and if the parties in the Folketing are in on it and want to fight for it, then it is an opportunity. Funds have been set aside in a broad conciliation from last year to make a stage 2 and I would very much like to be involved in that. However, it requires that some funds be made available.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141601	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141606	I am very fond of my cooperation with the Minister of Transport, and it must, of course, continue. I thought that was quite a non-answer. What is the great challenge of the conciliation parties is that the Minister threw a bag of money on the table that could not grow. That is why the conciliation that is now taking place was reached. That conciliation is insufficient when it comes to the reserve capacity, and we can see how that reserve capacity has been needed since the conclusion of the conciliation. We have it today. We do not have it when the new conciliation comes into force. Will the Minister go to his colleague, the Minister for Finance, and ask for a further bag of money so that Bornholm can have the basic reserve capacity needed to continue a positive economic recovery and thus keep the jobs that are available today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141701	The second stage we have talked about here, this government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, has set aside money so that a stage 2 can be made. And it is publicly known that then there are 48 million. kr. We must find out how many of them are going to go to which islands. And depending on how much money Bornholm gets, we can make a solution. I also have to remind the author of the question of which party he is a member of. It is the Left Party which, as far as I understand, is going to vote on zero growth and which, in its latest draft budget, had exactly 0.0 DKK. in the means to strengthen or cheapen, or whatever you might say, the voyage of Bornholm and Denmark's other islands. There is no shadow of funding in these demands. But what we can deliver is a stage two where there will be a total of 48 million. kr., which must then be distributed on the basis of what the Danish Parliament's parties can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141800	The question is closed, and thank you to the Minister for Transport. Question 11 to the Minister for the Environment is deleted. Question 12 is addressed to the Minister for the Environment by Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141816	Thank you. The question is: what will the Minister do to help those people who have lost their summer homes at Nørlev Strand because of poor coastal protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141821	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204141825	As the questioner probably knows, the starting point of the coastal protection law is that it is the landowner himself who is responsible for protecting his property from the sea and from floods. At the same time, the municipalities have the possibility, in special cases, of requiring landowners to provide coastal protection, however, which the municipalities have only to a limited extent done. Municipalities also have the opportunity to cofinance coastal protection. In addition, I have taken the initiative to carry out a coastal analysis of the total 7,300 km of coastline, which we have in Denmark, and it must be completed by the end of this year. That analysis must give us a comprehensive picture of where the risk of flooding and erosion is greatest and, in this context, the existing legislation needs to be assessed so that we can then have a basis for a political discussion on how to achieve cost-effective coastal protection. In relation to the specific case at Nørlev Strand, I understand, of course, that it is a violent experience to see your house destroyed like this. This is a very unfortunate situation for the owners of summer houses who can now see their houses lying down the cliff. It must be a very violent experience, and I have a great understanding of that. The Coastal Directorate is therefore also in dialogue with the municipality about the specific situation, and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and I have plans for an early meeting with the mayor of Hjørring Municipality to discuss the situation. However, I have to rely on the fact that the starting point of the coastal protection law is therefore that it is up to the landowner to protect his property and that the municipalities already have the possibility, in the existing legislation, to support coastal protection both economically and in terms of planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142023	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142025	Thank you for your answer. Now it's so up at Nørlev Strand that at the moment. sand-feeding takes place from the Coast Directorate. And the reason I'm asking questions exactly about Nørlev Strand is that these landowners back in 2010 actually applied for permission to make a more solid coast protection. But they were denied it, despite the fact that the municipality itself has a slightly more firm coast protection by their path, and for the same reason it still exists after the storms. If, as a landowner, you are obliged to look after your things and have also tried to do so, but if you are refused to actually do so, then I think that somewhere in any case somebody has a responsibility. That is also why I am asking the Minister about this matter, precisely because they have been refused to provide more permanent coastal protection. The reason was that coast protection there is done through sand-feeding and nothing else, except by the municipality's own road, where you could do something else. That is why I ask the Minister, because I am very surprised that this may be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142147	Well, I am well aware that a more harsh form of coastal protection has been sought in the area in question. It is, of course, the case that, on the basis of existing legislation, the Coastal Directorate assesses what is being applied for in relation to what is needed and, of course, also on the basis of consultation. As I understand it, it was among other things. on the basis of consultation responses which were critical of the more harsh coastal protection that refusal was granted and, of course, on the basis of an assessment that sand-feeding would be preferable on this coastline. When you feed sand, it will be the case that when erosion occurs, it is the sand that is primarily taken in the erosion. So it has an effect, too. But that is one of the things that we will also discuss with the mayor of Hjørring when we meet, of course to listen to those views. However, I have confidence in the way in which the Coastal Directorate administers the Coastal Protection Act and, on that basis, assess the concrete applications according to the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142252	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142253	Normally, I don't really like to deal with cases in relation to special places. But right here I think there is something fundamental about it, precisely because you have been refused to do something that might have had a better effect than what you had to do. Now I do not know whether the Minister can reply to that immediately, but does the Minister know who has gone against the coastal protection sought by the landowners in a hearing reply and has said that this is not really what we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142328	I do not have the opportunity to answer that at present, but I would very much like to come back to it with a concrete answer. I have just become aware that it is, of course, on the basis of a concrete assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of various types of coastal protection carried out by the Coastal Directorate and on the basis of a hearing that, as far as I understand, a refusal has been made and that sand-feeding has subsequently been started in the area concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142357	Then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker who's the co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142401	Thank you. Last week I had the pleasure of being on Ærø, where I saw these little fishhouses, which lie out on a small tangle called Ærøs Hale, and Erik's tail is also called. There I could also see how the coast was being eaten up by the sea. The Coast Directorate had just been sought for funds for a wavebreaker, which the Ministry of the Environment has announced will be refused. I wonder: what criteria are there for the Ministry of the Environment and the Coastal Directorate to assume that the fishing houses there are not important enough, although they are a cultural attraction on Ærø? What is it that makes them not important enough and that the Ministry can just say: Well, let it fall, what can not stand, this one they have to handle for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142451	Well, in each case there is a concrete assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of different types of coastal protection, which the Coastal Directorate then takes a position on. But there are also some consequences of these a little more harsh forms of coastal protection. As I understand the discussion that has been going on around Nørlev Strand, there is also the question that, if you do this kind of harsh coastal protection, it will of course have consequences for tourism. So this is a balance in the specific situation of the Coastal Directorate, and I am confident that they will do so in accordance with the legislation. Incidentally, in relation to the case of Erik Hale, I have been called in consultation on the matter, and there I will comment on the specific discussion more. So I'm not going to do that here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142535	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142537	If we are to look at this a little more broadly, then the areas that are affected by the sea eating them up are, funny enough, often some areas that are already very vulnerable in economic terms, for example. our islands or municipalities to the coast, which are already rural municipalities or peripheral municipalities. It is therefore municipalities which are already very much in need of the economy and where you can put the whole municipality down if they are going to pay for it themselves. Does the Minister not think that there is a need for us, both state and nationwide, to go in and carry out the task of protecting the citizens who are under nature, whom we humans obviously cannot do much about, so that it should not be the case that, because you live there, you have to have some extra costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142630	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142631	Well, it is a fundamental principle of the coastal protection law that it is the individual landowner who is responsible for protecting his property from the sea. The protection of the coast is therefore primarily the responsibility of the owner of the land. This was also confirmed by the recent amendment of the coastal protection law under the then government back in 2006, when a broad majority in the Folketing maintained that it was the fundamental principle. The state is also helping to carry out this task. On some stretches along the west coast of Jutland, where erosion is very violent, there are in fact 90 million state dollars for coast protection every year. But I have started this coastal analysis, where you have to look at the entire Danish coastline to give us an overview of where the challenges are greatest in the future in order to give us a basis for a political discussion on whether there is a need to change the organisation of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142728	Then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142731	In conclusion, just a question of what the Minister mentions, namely that the Coastal Directorate always makes such an advantage-up assessment in relation to the application for coastal protection that comes from the landowner. Is it then the case that, as a stakeholder, you can get an overview of what the advantages and disadvantages are, when a little access is refused, you can say that you get a reason and actually can also find out what the hell is going on? Because I don't always think logic follows my logic in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142802	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142803	But I should like to contribute to giving the Danish Parliament and the questioners an insight into what criteria are being applied. What is, of course, being looked at is tough coastal protection, because it will have consequences, for example. in terms of being able to enjoy these shores in the summer, where sand-feeding is most often preferable, because it is a softer form of coastal protection and therefore also has an effect, in that it is mainly the sand that is fed to the sea. So it's a balance of pros and cons. However, I should like to contribute to the transmission of those criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142842	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. The last question today is to the tax minister by Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142852	Thank you. This was then one of the examples of how we in the Danish Parliament are being thoroughly held during today's conference on the work of Parliament's committees. I asked a question on 9 September a relatively simple question: what effect would it have on employment and competitiveness in Denmark if VAT in the catering sector were to be reduced from 25 per cent? I have been held aside since 19 September. I have sometimes been told that in two weeks' time I would get an answer, and then again in two weeks' time I would get an answer, and now, after I have put the question here on Wednesday, I have received an answer from the Minister for Taxation. But unfortunately that is not an answer because he does not answer what effect it will have in Denmark. So I have now asked the Minister whether, in the Minister's view, it is good governance in that way to postpone the answer to questions so many times and then end up not answering the question at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142950	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204142952	I think it is usually the case that the questioner should read the question and then wait until his round to make his comments. But it is good that the President gives such a broad framework to Wednesday's questions. It is clear that the government attaches importance to responding adequately to questions from the Folketing within the normal time limit, and that is certainly what we are endeavouring to do in the Treasury. In the last session we received almost 1,000 common issues, and that naturally requires a lot of resources, but the task is also given priority. However, in some cases it may be necessary to postpone the reply. It can, for example, be done. be if there is a need to examine a subject further. In relation to the specific case raised by the questioner, it is true that in 2012 VAT on restaurant visits was lowered in Sweden. In question 792 to the Tax Committee, the general part, is asked what beneficial effects it would have if Denmark also lowered VAT on restaurant visits, as has happened in Sweden. The answer to the question was postponed because the Ministry would review a number of Swedish reports on the effects of reducing VAT on restaurant visits, and a review of these reports has contributed to an understanding of the extent to which Swedish experience can be transferred to the Danish situation. In answer to Question 792, an attempt has been made to answer the question asked about the advantages of a reduction in VAT on restaurant visits. However, other relevant factors have also been mentioned in the answer, which should be taken into account, because it is not without reason that successive governments have for many years opposed reduced VAT in individual areas. The Danish unit's VAT is one of the strengths of the Danish tax system and, as I said, I think it is very natural to make sure that the relevant information, including from other countries, is obtained when answering questions from the Danish parliament, and this may, unfortunately, sometimes take some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143157	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143159	First of all, I should like to say to the Minister that if the Minister has problems with my reasons for the question, then we can easily call for a conciliation on the subject too. In other words, there is so much content in it that we can of course choose to do so if the Minister prefers it. When I say that I have been dragged around in the mess since 9 September, it is because the Minister has not answered what effect it will have on employment and competitiveness in Denmark if we reduced VAT in the catering sector from 25 to 12%, as has happened in Sweden. I understand that the Ministry has spent part of the time collecting information from Sweden, and indeed among other things. in one of the answers to me refers that it has given approx. 4,000 full-time staff in Sweden have done that exercise. Could the Minister, having spent so many months studying it, not just give me the answer to how many full-time workers it would give in Denmark? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143256	I think it is very natural to take the Swedish experience as a starting point. I certainly do not disagree with the questioner. Therefore, it is also relevant to know that a number of figures have been mentioned in the Swedish debate, including the figure of 10,000, which has been mentioned in the media by various organisations, but also that the official Swedish reports have worked with a figure of 4,000. It has to be said, however, that the report also says that there is great uncertainty as to whether this is due to the fact that more jobs have actually been created in the catering industry or whether those who already work there have only been given several hours. And since we now know that the Swedish Government is engaged in a more comprehensive analysis work which will be completed here in 2015, it is clear that it will be much easier to give some precise answers to it when we know what the effects have been in Sweden. Unfortunately, we now have to conclude that Sweden cannot draw any final conclusions as to what the effect has been on the increase over there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143356	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143357	I just don't understand why the Minister doesn't answer my question. I ask about the effect in Denmark. I ask: how many full-time workers will it give in Denmark if we did the same? Then I fully agree that there can be great uncertainty as to whether it can be attributed to a larger number of employees or a higher average working time. I just want a figure on what effect it will have in Denmark. That's what I've been asking. That is what I asked the question about 9 September, and I am still waiting for an answer to that question, and I would like the Minister's assurance that today I will have a calculation, and I would also like an approximate time for when I will get it, just as I would like to ask the Minister if he can explain what the administrative costs will be of a differentiated VAT rate in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143443	After all, I have given a very long and very detailed answer from the Ministry of Taxation, also in relation to all the many uncertainties which necessarily lie in such a proposal and its consequences. It has to be said that it is not the case that, in Sweden, where this initiative has been implemented, you actually have some final conclusions, and therefore it is very difficult to draw any final parallels. In fact, I think that this is a very thorough and comprehensive answer which also brings with it many of the uncertainties which must necessarily be in relation to such a matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143527	Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143528	That is not in any way a thorough or comprehensive answer. On the contrary, it raises many more questions when, among other things, the Minister. It may well be that it will lead to an increase in employment, but that it will then be just an employment one takes from other sectors. However, this is the first time I have heard a minister say that there is only a certain amount of labour available, so we must also have that clarified. But Minister, can I not just get an answer today as to what the employment effect could be in Denmark yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143601	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143603	I am actually surprised that a Member from the Left may be in doubt that there may be such effects of certain initiatives. Especially since I understand that one of the initiatives that the Left Party is very concerned with at the moment is the housing job scheme, including the employment effects of it. And it has to be said that there are a lot of exchange effects similar to what we see in Sweden too. But part of the point is, in fact, that when you do not know what the specific effects have been in Sweden, it can also be very difficult to transfer it to Danish relationships, and that is why everything else will be conjecture. I note that the questioner has raised the question again, and we will, of course, look at it in the Ministry without prejudice when we have to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143649	The question is closed, and thank you to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150204143653	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 5 February 2015, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
