ParlaMint-DK_20151120120024	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 64 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations), and Bill No. L 65 (Proposal for a law repealing the Advertising Tax Act). Rasmus Prehn (S), Henning Hyllested (EL), Christian Poll (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Bill no. L 72 (Proposal for a law amending the law on road transport, the law on bus services and the law on taxi services, etc.) Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 29 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the publication of photos and videos from surveillance cameras). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 30 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of police veterans to use the Defender's veteran centre). Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 31 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of valid photo identification in addition to passports and driving licences). Karina Adsbøl (DF): Motion for a resolution No. B 32 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the electoral law so that people with disabilities can vote with the help they want), motion for a resolution No. Β 33 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on compulsory information on social processing times on the local authorities' websites), motion for a resolution No. Β 35 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on financial compensation for appeals) and motion for a resolution No. B 36 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on suspensive effect in appeals against persons with disabilities). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 34 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better action for rape victims). Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 37 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the use of toxic fuels), motion for a resolution No. B 39 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution banning endocrine disruptors, BHA and BHT in chewing gum), motion for a resolution No. Β 40 (Proposal for a resolution on the prohibition of phthalates DEHP, DBP, BBP and DIBP), motion for a resolution No. Β 41 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a ban on endocrine disruptors in cosmetics), motion for a resolution No. B 42 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a new area category "natural zone" in the planning act with a view to halting the loss of biodiversity in Denmark), motion for a resolution No. B 43 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on halting the loss of biodiversity in Denmark's marine waters), motion for a resolution No. Β 44 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on halting the loss of biodiversity in excessive and heath conditions), motion for a resolution No. B 45 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on halting the loss of biodiversity in fresh meadows and wetlands), motion for a resolution No. Β 46 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on halting the loss of biodiversity on the coasts of Denmark) and motion for a resolution No. B 47 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to stop the loss of biodiversity in Danish forests). Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 38 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of bisphenol-A etc.). Pia Adelsteen (DF) and René Christensen (DF): Request no. F 9 (Will the Minister explain what initiatives the government will take to help landowners who need coastal protection and whether the government will allow landowners to make types of coastal protection other than sand-feeding, such as hard safety or drain pipes?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120245	The item shall be deleted from the agenda of this sitting. There will be another meeting this afternoon on the third reading of Bill No. L 62. It will come after the first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120308	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120328	We shall now consider a motion for a resolution on the establishment of an IT portal for all state pools. It appears that the proposal comes on the basis of the Reichsaudit's report to the state auditors on application pools with a limited applicant circle. The National Audit Office is calling for greater transparency in this area and more systematic advertising practices. In addition, it is pointed out in the report that the grant donors generally do not document the basis for defining a pool's applicants. The Reichsaudit highlights that a common State pool portal can help to provide an overview of the information relevant to the pools. In reply to the State auditors, I have indicated that the Ministry of Finance recognises the importance of advertising to ensure that all potential grant beneficiaries become aware of the possibility of the grant. This is also evident today from the Ministry of Finance's subsidy guidelines, but the Ministry of Finance will consider whether the guidance can be strengthened in this field. The definition of the applicant circle may help to ensure that the purpose of the pool is achieved so as to achieve a greater impact of the grant funds. However, it is essential that this is done in accordance with the management principles described in the grant guidelines. It is also clear from the reply to the State auditors that the Ministry of Finance agrees that the demarcation of the applicant circle makes special demands on grant donors to document the factual reasons on which the demarcation is based. On the basis of the Reichsaudit report, the Ministry of Finance will review the grant guidance and incorporate recommendations on how grant donors can document and assess the appropriateness of defining the applicant circle. The government is therefore not opposed to the idea of establishing a pool portal, but the government is concerned with finding an effective, long-lasting and user-friendly solution to the problem. On the basis of the Reichsaudit's report, the Government has therefore launched an analysis to assess the possibilities and challenges of establishing a pool portal. The analysis will identify organisational as well as technical issues associated with the establishment and operation of a new portal. Among other things, it will: be examined, what information a possible portal should contain on each scheme and what coherence will exist between the portal and the current administrative grant systems of the ministries. The analysis shall also consider whether the creation of an application pool on the portal is sufficient in relation to the requirement to publish and ensure that all potential applicants are aware of the possibility of the grant. Next, the analysis shall identify the most appropriate way to establish the portal, taking into account user-friendliness as well as the financial consequences of establishment and operation. The analysis will include experiences from ministries and agencies that have already established pool portals for their own grant schemes. It is expected that the analysis will point to opportunities to create a better overview of the pools for potential applicants and can contribute to more open and uniform application processes. A decision to establish a pool portal should be taken on the basis of the analysis and it is therefore not realistic that any pool portal may be publicly available in the first half of 2016, as proposed in the motion for a resolution. In addition, as mentioned above, the Ministry of Finance is updating the grant guidance on the basis of the Reichsaudit's report. The updated grant guidance is expected to be published at the beginning of the new year. Against this background, the government cannot endorse the motion for a resolution on the creation of an IT portal for all state pools.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120801	One person has asked for the floor for a brief comment. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120807	Thank you. And thank you for opening up to the proposal for a pool portal I am, of course, very pleased about that. This analysis work sounds really reasonable. Is there an expected end date on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120821	Well, we expect that to be clear in the first half of 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120826	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120828	Should I understand the Minister's presentation so that, on the basis of that analysis, if the analysis considers it sensible, we will try to start work on a genuine pool portal in the sense proposed by the State auditors?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120849	Yes, it must be understood that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120855	The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120120902	Thank you. And thank you for the opportunity to talk about a little nerdy, but if nothing else, one of my heart children, that is, the pool management of the social area. This is really about setting up an IT portal. We are in favour of creating that transparency and are sure that coordinating some of these different pools will create a motorway for those who sit and have to find out where they can get the money from for the good projects they are doing. So the basic principles here are agreed by the Social Democrats, but with the apes dabei that we may think that the timeframe laid down in the resolution is too tight. Sometimes it can be annoying to shoot down a proposal because of a time frame where you could basically just move on one side or the other. In order to express our sympathy for the proposal, I have announced to the Minister for Social Affairs that if we are not invited to a meeting and a discussion of the pool problem before 1 February, there is already an invitation to a new consultation on precisely this problem. So we take it quite seriously and we follow it up. I would say that when we do this, and this may sound technical and nerdy, it is simply because too much of our social policy is also our health policy, and indeed our cultural policy, and other areas could be mentioned. And one of the problems is that some of these pools are put into effect in a way so that you can first look for money at the back. I mean, this searching for money at the back has the consequence that you have to have a relatively large buffer for which voluntary association can put, for example. 50,000 kroner. it may be a summer holiday project or similar for socially disadvantaged people. But only the big organizations can do that, and that is not how we should conduct social policy. It must be the case that everyone can bid that all citizens are equal before the law, that all associations on equal terms can apply for these pools. And so there are too many of them where you have to be able to put the money on your own against expected post-financing, which you can't even be sure to get. This is just one problem which I have also asked the Minister to take a position on in this case the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior. Then there is simply the problem that too many projects open and close, in other words that our social policy is characterised by swinging doors. We have got something straightened up in connection with this year's pool of rates agreement, where we have made an agreement that places more large blocks in which there is a longer term aim. I think that is a very good thing, but I do not think we are in the end yet. So, the bet pool started 25 years ago now, and what initially corrected some imbalances in relation to the transfer income, and where you got this pool, is actually knob shot, because there's so much money in the pot today. That is why, in my opinion, this resolution is an expression of something very concrete that can be done about it. But we also need to have a much more thorough discussion about whether this is the most appropriate way of running our social policy. In my opinion, it is the case that socially vulnerable people need to be calm more than other citizens, that there is regularity and that the contacts and close relationships that are linked to employees, for example. on projects, have duration. There must be regularity and there must be calmness about it. There is the problem of project management simply that a project is opened up it may be a bedroom and it works fine for 2-3 years, you have really good experience with what people finally come out and get some social contact, and it may become a stable part of having something to stand up to in the morning and do, and then the project loses its funding. And because the municipality has no interest in continuing the site, because it may be citizens from all sorts of different municipalities who use it, it just smokes again. So we get too many times started up something that has a very good social aim, which helps a lot of people move on and then goes down again. It's just not gonna work. I believe that this is a waste of very good resources in our society, and that is why we must see whether it is possible for us to achieve more stability in social policy. We played in with the Social Democratic Party in this year's wagering pool negotiations, that a lot of effort had to be spent on it, and we managed to make these social investments, where things were turned upside down, that is, where you simply try to get invested before the major social damage happened. And to the best of my knowledge, we need a lot more of that. So it was just to say that I have very much sympathy for a proposal that is about getting something done about these pools, even if this is of a very technical nature. But let us also have the debate on the very big issue, namely how we approach our social policy in a way that allows us to tackle together those people who are very vulnerable in our society much earlier than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121331	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jan Rytkjær Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121346	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we are not opposed to an IT portal, but we have some concerns. It's the time factor of the when it can be realized and the economy of this project. Because in the paper I can see that there are no figures on what it is going to cost. So there we would like a report to be made in committee on these two issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121422	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121436	Thank you. I think that both the Minister for Finance and the Socialist Group's rapporteur have actually made some quite excellent observations on this proposal. As the rapporteur for the Socialist Group said, it is perhaps a little nerdy, but it is of course also important that you get that overview and it, you might say, increased transparency in the various options here, pool schemes etc. The Danish People's Party is suggesting that we can talk about it in committee. I think that too, and I am also listening to the opening that the Minister of Finance is making, that we might have to talk about the time perspective and that the analysis put forward by the government should include a final assessment of what can then be done in concrete terms. We in the Left would like to support the idea of having it analysed and then, if necessary, discussing it in committee. Whether there is to be a story or what it should be, we will have to discuss it more closely. These are the comments we have from the Left, and otherwise we agree with what was said by the Minister a moment ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121538	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. And the next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121541	In the Liberal Alliance, we support more transparency in this area. The report by the National Audit Office on state pools makes it clear that there is a very great need for more transparency. We do not have the prerequisites to know how much this will cost and how long it will take to create such a portal, but we have a desire that it should be a simple system that creates an overview. Therefore, in our optics it should not take long, nor should it be costly. That is why the announcement from us is that we think this resolution is a very good initiative, but we need the Minister to respond to what it costs and how long it will realistically take to create such a portal before we can finally take a position on the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121633	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121640	Thank you. In the alternative, we think that Enhedslisten's proposal to create an IT portal for all state pools is a really fine proposal, and it will not hurt at all if, on the same occasion, the application forms are simplified and standardized and solved the back-side issue that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil is also talking about. However, if we are against the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, it is because we believe that the deadline for drawing up such a portal is too short in this proposal. According to the proposal, the work will have to be completed in the first half of 2016 and we believe that this is unrealistic. We should not rush public IT solutions through at a time when some of them are having a hard time. We hear in the Minister's speech that thorough investigations are under way in the Ministry of Finance in order to create a new IT portal for all state pools, and we prefer to wait for the results of them so that we have better time to do the work properly. We are therefore voting 'no' because the deadline is too short, but I wonder if the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution has helped speed up the process a little. In any case, we think it is justified in itself, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121750	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121807	Thank you. It is positive that the Reichsaudit has taken up the task and looked at the pools and the way we have managed them, and thus also found the opportunity to put forward a number of proposals that will provide more clarity, openness and transparency. We have also noted that the auditors of the State have produced a report which follows up on the analyses of the National Audit Office. We are very pleased with this in the Radical Left. We are also pleased that the Minister for Finance has welcomed everything I have just mentioned and is carrying out the relevant analyses and initiatives to enable us to meet the expectations of the National Auditor and Auditor's report. On this basis, we do not consider it necessary to support B2 because the work is in good shape. We will, of course, follow it very closely and closely, but so far it is going the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121906	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120121912	Thank you. Although we think that the idea here of a common IT portal immediately sounds like a good idea, we also want from the SF to wait for the work that, as I understand from the Minister for Finance, has started in the Ministry of Finance before we make a final statement to see whether it should be one or the other. Because, as the radical rapporteur also mentioned, there is no doubt that we must, of course, respond to the criticism that has come from the Reichsaudit. Of course, we need to look at how to find the best possible solutions, including with regard to IT in the state. That is why we are also very much aware of the serious criticism that has come from the Reichsaudit, but we also believe that it is true that the work has been started, and we therefore welcome the fact that it seems that there is now broad political support to follow it up. Furthermore, as I understand it, it was also discussed at yesterday's consultation in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment that I did not take part, but our rapporteur did so in the area of 'where a meeting was also set up at the beginning of the coming year, when we will then look at the pools and the administration of them. I think that also indicates that we are actually heading in the right direction. Against this background, I must say that we do not agree with the proposal immediately, but that we agree with the idea and will not refuse to support the proposal if it turns out that the Ministry of Finance cannot come up with a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120122031	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120122037	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we fully agree with Enhedslisten that we should follow the Reichsaudit's recommendation that such a joint state pool portal should be established. We must ensure transparency in the approx. 300 pools covering 5,8 billion. kr., and which we politicians adopt and offer to some municipalities, partly companies, and partly, of course, many voluntary organisations. This pool portal will make up for some of the massive criticism that has come from the National Audit Office. Several points have been pointed out. We find it particularly questionable that just over one-fifth of the applications pools have not been announced at all and that there has been a direct distribution of funds on the basis of unsolicited applications alone. This is a serious breach of good administrative behaviour. However, we also have a concern with regard to the Enhedslisten resolution, which has also been put forward by several other rapporteurs up here: the deadline. I was also very pleased to hear the speech made by the Minister of Finance, where he mentioned this work of analysis that is under way, but I am also very pleased with the follow-up questions that were asked where it was confirmed that this analysis work should lead to such a state pool portal. So we are not going to support the resolution, but we very much want this joint pool, and if the Ministry of Finance is not able to deliver, we have to look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120122203	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120122214	Thank you. I will start by signing for the positive feedback on the content of the proposal, i.e. the desire to establish a state pool portal, which provides an overview and transparency of this almost jungle of state pools that exists. I also thank the Minister for his positive feedback on the proposal. The proposal is, as has been said, a follow-up to the report of the State auditors on these state pools, which is, after all, a relatively harsh criticism. It is, of course, the case that, through the Finance Act and other agreements, we are constantly creating new pools and funds which the ministries administer and which are intended to provide support for activities carried out by citizens, associations, companies and so on. The problem is that what the State auditors have pointed out today is very different, how these pools, if I may say so, are marketed and how potential applicants are informed whether they can apply for them. According to the State auditors' report, there are some 300 pools where grant donors have defined the applicant circle and the size of the 300 pools was actually 5.8 billion. kr. in the most recent round of applications. In their business, the National Audit Office concludes that in many cases it is doubtful whether the ministries comply with the principles of good grant management when the applicant circle of the application pools is defined administratively. The National Audit Office also notes that some ministries have pools that are distributed exclusively on the basis of unsolicited applications, as the Conservative rapporteur also mentioned. It is a practice that they regard as unfortunate, because it means that potential applicants simply have not had the opportunity to seek funding, and therefore it is not certain that it is the best candidate who gets them. This is also why the National Audit Service recommends that a comprehensive overview of the state's application pools be established, e.g. by establishing a joint state pool portal in cooperation with the ministries. A pool portal may help applicants to obtain easier access to the grant funds. The purpose of the proposal we have put forward is, of course, simply to follow up on the recommendation and have such a portal, which is easily accessible, which is user-friendly and which ensures this transparency and ensures that the money we place in here actually reaches the most relevant applicants. What we need to avoid with this proposal is, of course, basically that these are the cigar boxes that the ministries can distribute according to untrue principles. That's what it's all about if you're gonna turn it into a human language. After all, we have had a number of cases over the last few years and I will not go into those who have illustrated that there is a need here to get some clear guidelines. As I said, I welcome the positive reception and, as I said, I am also pleased with the Minister's analysis work. It was unknown to me that this analysis work, which I think is really, really positive, had been initiated. And I would suggest that, in the context of the continued committee procedure, we look at whether or not an amendment could be tabled which would bring up the deadline, which I can hear is a concern which has been raised by several rapporteurs, or whether a report could simply be adopted in committee, which, following the announcement by the Minister of Finance here, lays down a time-frame for the expected completion of this work of analysis and where we commit each other and the Minister to allow it to follow up a discussion of such a state pool. So, in those words, I would just like to thank you for the positive treatment of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120122611	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Pelle Dragsted. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee and, if no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120122632	The debate is open and the floor is given to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120122658	Repeated political agreements since 2004 have agreed that DONG Energy should be quoted on the stock exchange. A stock exchange quote has also been part of the contractual basis with the old Elsam shareholders and SEAS-NVE when DONG Energy was created for approx. Ten years ago, and as the Folketing also approved. DONG Energy was close to being listed in 2007 and 2008, but the stock exchange quote was paused as a result of the financial crisis. With the broad political agreement of 18 September 2015 between the SF, the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the Conservatives and the Government, the political agreements of 2004 and 2013 to exchange DONG Energy were reaffirmed. I believe, for several reasons, that this is a very good agreement and an agreement that should help to ensure a stable framework for DONG Energy. But first let me say a little about the agreement itself, then I will elaborate on why I see it as a very good agreement, and finally I will explain why I believe that this issue should not be put to a referendum. First of all, the agreement means that the aim is to make a stock exchange listing as soon as possible, giving market conditions. The State will also retain the majority ownership of the company after the stock exchange has been quoted. Secondly, the natural gas infrastructure and the oil pipe are being sold to Energinet.dk., which is 100%. State-owned. This follows on from the previous political agreements, which emphasized the need for the State to control these assets. The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate has therefore mandated Energinet.dk to open negotiations with DONG Energy on these assets. Thirdly, DONG Energy will continue to own parts of the Danish electricity distribution network. The company owns the electricity distribution network in Copenhagen, Frederiksberg and large parts of Nordsjælland. Finally, it is clear from the agreement that DONG Energy, as a commercially operated company, will continue to be able to make commercially appropriate acquisitions and divestments of activities. Since it was first decided to exchange DONG Energy back in 2004, the company has developed a lot. It is most striking that the company, through significant investments, has developed a globally leading offshore wind turbine business and is increasingly being built on offshore wind farms. However, the company's development does not change the basis for a stock exchange listing, rather on the contrary. The stock exchange quote should provide a basis for DONG Energy to develop its global leadership in the offshore wind turbine area. This will benefit both growth and job creation. Basically, I believe that DONG Energy must be able to act on commercial terms and not be made either worse or better than competing companies in the sector. The State's ownership of DONG Energy has so far been carried out on a commercial basis. As a shareholder of DONG Energy, the State has an interest in ensuring the highest possible value creation in the company. We should not use the ownership of DONG Energy to ensure energy and climate policy objectives. These considerations, as in other companies, must be ensured through energy and climate policy. There must basically be the same ground rules for all energy companies in Denmark. All in all, I think it is very positive that a broad political agreement has now been reached on the listing of the stock exchange. I believe that this is the right way to create a stable framework for DONG Energy, and I hope that it will help calm the company. Let me turn to the motion for a resolution to hold a referendum on the planned stock exchange listing. As I understand it, the proposal is justified both by the great public awareness of the company and by the importance of the company for the Danish energy supply. I cannot deny that there has been a great deal of attention to the company in recent years, but I do not believe that this attention means that we should put commercial arrangements for the company in a referendum. On the contrary, a stable framework should be created for the company, and this was precisely the aim of the political agreement. I do not believe that a referendum will contribute to this. Moreover, it will also be possible for the public to keep track of the company's development in the future, with clear rules applying to public and information obligations of listed companies. With regard to the second point, that is to say the consideration of the Danish energy supply, I fully share the view that a high level of security of supply is essential for society. However, I believe that this consideration must be ensured through sectoral regulation, and this applies to social considerations for all energy companies in Denmark and not just for DONG Energy. In principle, I do not think it is the basis for a referendum that the State, as a shareholder, makes a commercial transaction concerning one of the state's companies. In other transactions for state companies, there have also been no referendums. If there were to be a referendum on such decisions, I believe that we are undermining the ability of the state to own companies. It would even be very difficult to operate a commercial company whose business arrangements would have to wait for referendums. In conclusion, I believe that the planned stock exchange listing will provide the basis for DONG Energy to develop further for the benefit of growth and employment. It is important to ensure a stable framework for the company in this way. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123349	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123354	After all, this proposal is the result of a long and scandalous process, where I think most Danes have been following it, and I think most Danes have seen how a dark and hasty process sold out of large parts of DONG to the speculators in Goldman Sachs. On a late Friday afternoon in September, we read that the parties behind this DONG agreement had now decided in secret and behind closed doors that further sales of the population's energy company should be made both by a stock exchange listing, but, as the agreement states, possibly also by a sale of a number of assets prior to that listing. Then the Minister can confirm that DONG is the Danish energy company, or that at least a good part of DONG is owned in this way and is therefore not the Minister for Finance, Mr. Jonas Dahls or Mr. Jacob Jensen's energy company?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123457	I just want to go to sir. Pelle Dragsted say that description, sir. Pelle Dragsted comes along about the treatment of DONG, is history counterfeiting, and that the insight gained made it clear that it has happened right after the book and that it is the best bidders who have been elected. So there's nothing to come by in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123517	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123519	I believe that the Minister for Finance belongs to a very small group of Danes who believe that everything went according to the book in the sale to Goldman Sachs. But I admire the persistence of faith in it; I don't think there are very many other Danes who agree with that. Can the Minister confirm in concrete terms that the agreement that has been reached, that is to say the agreement that we want to be sent to a referendum, means that a number of assets could be created, for example. the power stations or wind farms can be fully sold from, in other words fully privatised, prior to a stock exchange listing of the remaining part of DONG Energy, that is, what remains?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123555	I'd like to say to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, that despite Goldman Sachs' involvement in this case, the state still has the majority stake in this company. And therefore there is no basis for conspiracy theories or any other theories, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is exceling in this case. What is fundamental in this matter is that when companies operate on a commercial basis, they cannot be operated if there are to be referendums all the time. After all, shares have been sold at Copenhagen Airports and shares have been sold in various state companies. And if they were to be operated in such a way that referendums were to take place, that would kill any opportunity to run such a company sensibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123644	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123646	Thank you. I am surprised, then, that the Minister, who usually goes into depth, says that this is a case of false history. Is the Minister not aware that it was about to kill a government at the time with the great population protests that were there? It has been a long time since we have seen such great protests against a political act as the one that took place in connection with DONG. There I would like to hear: does the Minister completely deny that it can be an advantage for the State to own and run companies that have a very central social impact on supply? In this case, it's about energy, but in other cases, could it be other logistical tasks for society that we can't afford to risk going bankrupt and other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123734	As I said in my presentation, it is crucial that we regulate sectoral legislation, in other words that we regulate the electricity market, that we regulate district heating and so on. It is, of course, through this regulation that we ensure that we have stable supplies. Whether they are private companies or state companies, they have to comply with that legislation, which is why this is absolutely crucial in these cases. I just want to repeat that it is history counterfeiting with which Enhedslisten travels in connection with these cases. They have been dealt with directly by the book, and after I have arrived at as Minister of Finance and have become involved in it, I can only confirm that it was the best bidder that was taken into account as an investor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123828	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123830	I'm not a historian now. But I would say that if we were to share that knowledge, the Ministry could just open the archives and let us look at what has actually happened rather than all sorts of myths both those who are true and those who are untrue. However, it was strange that so many people reacted at that time. Doesn't the Minister think there's a difference? Isn't it harder to let a semi- or wholly-private company regulate indirectly through legislation than if you do it directly by owning the company? I believe that environmental considerations, security of supply and such things are much easier to regulate if we own the company ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123913	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120123914	Whether state-owned companies or privately owned companies, it must be sectoral legislation that regulates it. It cannot be the case that we require state-owned companies to compete on terms other than private companies. And that is purely by chance what we are dealing with today by state companies. Now we are sitting with DONG, whose big business in the future will be to build offshore wind farms all over this world. And it is not through a political decision that the Danish Parliament has decided that we should be the leader in building offshore wind farms in this world. But this has been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124002	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124005	Thank you, Minister. I noted that the Minister said that we should not secure climate and energy policy in Danish energy companies. I could then say that I would then like the government to be a little more visionary in its climate and energy policy when we cannot use DONG for that. What worries me in this agreement on stock exchange listing is that, in my view, stock exchange listing will make it harder to take long-term, sustainable considerations into account as a company and, on the other hand, the short-term interests of shareholders will have to be taken into account when you run your business. I would like to ask whether the Minister agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124050	I do not understand the reasoning being put forward. After all, what is crucial for our climate and energy policy is the framework legislation we have in this country. Then it has to be said that when we have commercial companies, they must be operated on commercial terms, which is why it is not about the individual company. Because there are also other private companies in the energy market in Denmark, which is why it is illogical that only DONG should regulate these things. So I think we can agree that it is then the legislation and regulation of the energy sector that should be the domain of the Folketing, namely to set objectives and guidelines on how to behave as a producer on the Danish market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124143	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124145	Yeah, well, what I was really asking about was the fact that now you're selling an additional 8%. From, you might say, to stock market listing. At least 59 per cent of state-owned shares are quoted on the stock market. Down to 51%, as I understand it. What my question was about is that the short-term interests of shareholders will then be taken into account. In other words, it will be harder to have the long-term vision in which, in our view, there is also an economy. So that may be more a comment, but I would like the Minister to comment on it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124222	Well, I'd love to. In other words, when you look at what DONG's long-term objective is, it is to be the world leader in the offshore wind turbine area. And I suppose that is an attitude and a resolution with which the questioner can be very pleased. So there is absolutely no contradiction here between DONG's long-term goal for where to invest your resources and what the Danish Parliament thinks is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124253	Thank you, Minister. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124305	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution before us is, in fact, a fairly clear one, namely whether to send a specific decision on commercial transactions for a state company to a referendum. I can already hear from the debate that there are also different ideas to discuss other things that had heard better at home in a different context than in a resolution. It could be a question debate or consultation, and of course one can always consider that. That is why, as a Socialist rapporteur, I shall confine myself to taking a position on what is at issue, in other words on the content of the resolution in isolation, and just note that when it comes to dealing with commercial transactions for state companies, there is no precedent for putting it to a referendum. It would make the framework of state companies impossible if a referendum were to be held on it. It is also explicitly stated in the political agreement that the agreement should contribute to ensuring a stable framework for DONG Energy and that the company will continue to be able to act as a commercially operated company. A referendum and the consequent uncertainty about stock exchange listing will not contribute to such a stable framework. Against this background, the Socialists reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124437	The first in the series of brief remarks is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124440	I think that is actually an interesting argument, in other words that democracy threatens a stable framework and that we must override the possibility of asking the people because it does not create a stable framework. Where could the thinking about a lot of the legislation we adopt in here not lead us? I think that reminds me a little of the fact that the Greeks wanted to issue a referendum in the first place until President Papandreou and the Danish ambassador said that it was not good; the markets would react negatively to that, in other words to democracy. Is this really the position of the rapporteur, in other words, that, in relation to asking the Danes about a number of crucial issues, which we are talking about here, we should refrain from the democratic exercise, because we believe that it might create a less stable framework for a company which is basically owned by the Danes, at least a large part?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124539	I respect the fact that the rapporteur was not elected in the Danish Parliament in 2004, when the original decision on the progress on DONG Energy was taken in the first place. But I do know in return that Mr. Pelle Dragsted has put a question to the Minister of Finance, Question 26, alm. in this session, in which the rapporteur asked for the overall review, and it is quite clear that the direction we are taking is based on the agreement made in 2004. Then one might ask with a certain degree of justification: why ask for this now? It is not, of course, because there has been any decisive change in relation to the price of DONG Energy, and it is therefore very explicit that the State must retain its majority shareholding in relation to the ownership of DONG Energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124640	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124642	I think that no matter where you have been sitting, you should have slept a little bit per hour if you do not think something has happened in the DONG case since 2006. So, I think the rapporteur remembers that this case was one of the biggest political issues in the population in January-February 2014 and in the months leading up to hundreds of thousands of Danes signing a, what it says, such an opinion poll that they did not want to sell, that the Castle Square was filled down here and that a number of experts were also on the field. So that is why, after all, that is the reason for the proposal, I would like to say to the rapporteur that we have had a huge discussion (first Vice-President Thank you to the questioner) and that is why we should ask the Danes this time too, so that they do not get caught up in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124727	Thank you to the questioner. I would remind you that there are only 30 seconds in the second round, and when I stand up, it is because time is next in the series of rapporteurs... Benny Engelbrecht May I reply?). Yeah, I'm sorry. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124736	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that the word that the rapporteur lacked was a petition, not an opinion poll, at least I guess. However, it has to be said that the exchange rate, and this is what the resolution is about, has not changed since 2004.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124759	Then the answer came too. The next brief remark is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124805	Thank you. I am not of that opinion. A great deal has happened since 2014 in the field of energy, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not think that it is okay to take stock every now and then, for example, when. The whole world is aware that we have difficulty in being able to follow the plans we have for climate and things and that we actually need the optimum number of tools to be able to act in order to manage the development that is on a disaster course for the globe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124834	I do not think anyone said in 2004 that I think the rapporteur said in 2014 that he himself did not. Svend Auken, honored by his memory, could have imagined that DONG could play such a crucial role in increasing the amount of wind farms in northern Europe. It's quite impressive, so big a part you play in relation to it. So, in that way, you're absolutely right. That is just not what this resolution is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124906	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124908	I guess it's about whether we let the population have participation on whether such crucial elements in a path to more sustainable development should be completely private, semi-private or public. In public, we have our hand on the helm. In private terms, we can indirectly regulate a tiny amount, which means that it is quite ineffective. That is why I believe that, if not now, when should the state equip itself with most of the tools and thus this too? I would remind you that it was in fact the rapporteur's own government that was about to be killed by the whole protest, and it was against the sale of DONG in 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120124951	When Mr. Christian Juhl puts it that way, it sounds almost as if you want to give the Danes the opportunity to vote that the state should be able to sell off the entire DONG. I think that's a really bad idea, an incredibly bad idea. I think that this is a very good agreement, which means that the State will retain the majority of shares, and that requires all parties to agree if we are to get out of it, and I think that will be quite difficult to imagine in such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125020	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125034	Thank you. Yes, we are here with B 15, and it can be said that what the proposal is about is this referendum. I would say that what is needed is a debate about what actually happened and what needs to be done in the future. It must be acknowledged that there was a significant majority in the Folketing who chose to do what they did in relation to Goldman Sachs joining the board. It was the previous government, together with the supporting parties, the Social Democratic Party and the Left and the Radical Left, that were also included in this agreement. So it is there, and therefore a referendum, one must recognise, will not be possible in relation to it. But what is interesting is what is now to happen in relation to the stock exchange listing. We can use such a discussion for that too. Now you have to go out and find banks in relation to who's gonna run it through. Could it then be imagined that Goldman Sachs could also be elected in relation to it, in other words, do the work? It should be remembered that Goldman Sachs is also part of DONG today as a minority shareholder. These are things that will also be interesting in the future, compared to when you go to the Stock Exchange. That is why I think the DONG case is really exciting, and it is interesting to debate it in the Parliamentary Chamber as well. What is also being promoted at the moment is that one also wonders whether one should sell off the oil business in DONG. There you may wonder why it is precisely now that it is coming. In other words, with the lowest oil prices, almost in the memory of a man, we are now beginning to talk about selling off the oil business. What was the last thing that happened when it came to creating new capital? It was, of course, that the conciliation parties in the circle were confronted with DONG being in need, that DONG needed capital, otherwise the sky would almost fall. What happened as soon as you got fresh capital? Then, indeed, capital came from elsewhere compared to withdrawing from other activities in DONG. It has to be said that on this issue today we are not voting for a referendum because a referendum cannot change it, but we must recognise that the discussion on DONG is certainly not finished. It is very important to hear what the shareholders actually say on DONG's board of directors, and that should not be overlooked, in a state company it is the shareholders, i.e. this floor too, in relation to the future development of DONG. I would like to take this opportunity to say: Dear DONG and the board of DONG, remember to think a little about it, even when you look at it, if you want to separate any oil activities; then it might be that that was the option. We recognise that a company must work with something you are good at, and there is no doubt that DONG is capable of working with green energy worldwide. DONG is capable of working with offshore wind turbines worldwide, and therefore there could be an idea to separate other activities, but precisely at a time when the price is the lowest ever, we must have the same story again. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal for a referendum because it will have no impact; the agreement has been voted through here in Parliament by a large majority, but we fully recognise that there is a need for further debate, and I hope that this is not the last time we have to debate DONG in the Assembly Chamber or for that matter in the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125342	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125343	I do not quite understand why it should be impossible to send an agreement to a referendum. Well, it's just a deal. It is not the case that DONG has already been listed on the stock exchange. It is clear that if we carry out an indicative referendum and the majority of the Danes say no, then it is to be expected that the political majority in this House will follow suit. So I simply do not understand the rapporteur's argument for not supporting a referendum. I am also surprised at the fact that the same rapporteur before the elections was out to say clearly that the Danish People's Party supports the idea of a referendum if further sales are to be made by DONG.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125423	After all, the challenge is the way Goldman Sachs has entered DONG. That is clearly part of the deal that has been made. That is why the state will run out of the agreement that has been made to a great extent. We recognize that a large majority has done so. We do not agree with that agreement. On the basis of the minority rights granted to Goldman Sachs as a minority shareholder, one would not think that it was the state, as the Socialist rapporteur said earlier, that has a majority shareholding. Yes, it is only on paper, because so many minority rights have been granted, so it is not really the state that can sit at the top of the table anymore. There, then, the former Minister of Finance went beyond the mandate. However, we recognise that this agreement has been made. Unfortunately, this must be the case, and we are really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125504	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125505	Now there are possibilities in that agreement for not making stock exchange notes. That's one of them. Therefore, the fact that Goldman Sachs secured completely unreasonable withdrawal conditions. But the possibility is there. Again, I am surprised, because this was not new when the rapporteur said to Politiken shortly before the elections: if the Danish Parliament decides in future to sell further out of the Danish energy company Dong Energy, the question will have to be put to a referendum. Now there is a tradition of the Finance Act yesterday that something different is meant before the elections than afterwards, but can the rapporteur not try to elaborate on what has happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125548	Now this agreement has been concluded with a very, very broad majority in the Folketing, and that agreement also includes an exchange quotation. I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has not opposed a listing on the stock exchange. We were part of the conciliation circle and were then kicked out of the conciliation circle because, of course, we said that the mandate with which the Minister for Finance had been given to work went beyond. That is why we are no longer part of the conciliation circle. But that is why we recognise that it is important that the state sits at the top of the table, that the state has the majority of shares. But we are not afraid that others will enter DONG as well. We were in the process for a long time, so we acknowledge that DONG will be listed on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125625	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125628	Thank you. Nor do I understand why a referendum cannot change anything if we could agree here that it is a good idea to ask the people of such a controversial question. It is an issue that also shook something in Dansk Folkeparti in the days when it was lost in 2014. Why wouldn't it change anything? No matter how large the majority is, is it good to ask the people? Surely, as a politician, listening to the people sometimes makes you wiser? I do not think it should be rejected in advance. So I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not think it makes a difference to have a commercial company, even a listed commercial company, which must first and foremost make money if, for example, we are to make money. in society, that company may need to take climate considerations first and foremost, perhaps first and foremost to provide energy supply and such things, so it is therefore better to pull it towards common ownership rather than into a commercial market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125730	This is where Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti are very different. In fact, we do not believe that everything is best run by the state. Well, why was it that DONG was in this situation? I mean, it wasn't like you'd run it best. We are in favour of cooperation with the private sector. We are, in fact, in favour of the state having a majority shareholding, of the state having to sit at the top of the table and have the control. This has been allowed to get a little out of hand. There is no doubt about that with the minority regulations that have come in connection with the sale to Goldman Sachs. But we do not really believe that the state should be the sole owner and run it alone. There Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti see things very differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125805	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125806	Surely there are core activities that are so important that we have to have it in common ownership, so that we do not run the risk of being caught up in the private market? That's one thing. The other thing is that it isn't the case that because Goldman Sachs got a share of the company, it started making profits. I guess it was because facts about DONG were tampered with at the time when the shares were sold that we have seen that afterwards there was actually a very good company that was now pretended to be in crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125836	There is no doubt that the activities of DONG, which were worth the money, were messed with. That money didn't come until after the Folketing made this decision. I fully agree with that. That was also why the Danish People's Party voted against that resolution. We simply believe that the decision was taken on the wrong basis. But now that decision has been taken, unfortunately, and then you have to live with the democracy that exists. Now the decision has been made and we live with it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125859	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120125913	Thank you. As can be seen, we are discussing here a proposal to send the political decision to exchange DONG for a referendum. I must perhaps not so surprisingly disappoint the Enhedslisten that we on the Left are opposed to it on the grounds that we here in the Danish Parliament are elected by the Danes to make decisions every day. We have been chosen to protect Danish interests, Danish values and other values. That's what we're elected to do in here. Then, of course, there are provisions in the Constitution that we sometimes come in and discuss, which means that we have to send things to a referendum. However, we think that the democratic game, which is where the Danes are asked in connection with parliamentary elections and, of course, other elections, if they are local questions, means that they are the ones who are elected, who represent the Danes and therefore have to decide on such things. It can be said that there are plenty of decisions which also have public attention, I should like to say hello. It may not be daily, but at least weekly or at other frequencies. I have not heard any wish from the Enhedslisten that they should be sent to a referendum. I know that this is, of course, a political game, or whatever you might call it, and respect for it; there must also be room for that. But I now think that the substance of the matter leaves something to be desired in relation to so many other incredibly important agreements and decisions that the majority, including the broad majority, which is actually the case here, is taking in the Folketing, but for which a referendum is not called for. If you want to protect Danish economic interests, including the Danish interests in DONG, you should support the fact that there is a stable political majority which has created an agreement that sets the framework for DONG's future in terms of both corporate introduction and state ownership. What are some parts of DONG that can be sold from, and what parts must remain in state custody? Therefore, it is also important to say that the introduction of the stock exchange does not change the ownership that is being proposed, namely that the State will still have a controlling shareholding. In this way, the state will also help to deal with this issue, which I understand to be among other things. Mr Christian Juhl, at an earlier stage, traveled on the security of energy supply. I therefore share Mr Enhedslisten's view that it is important that we have control over it. But it just doesn't change what is being proposed with an introduction to the stock exchange, namely that it should harm. The Minister of Finance says that referendums could make it difficult to own companies. We could then say with a glimpse in our eyes that, as a genuine liberal, we might just be in favour of having referendums, because then perhaps some of the state's ownership could be reduced. It is of course said with a glimpse in the sense that, as I said, we think it is important that you have some of these things in the hands of the state. It should not be more than necessary, and I kind of share Mr. René Christensen's vision: There are things that can easily be operated commercially, and there are things that can be made according to the model that is now being set up here. This means that it is private investors with capital and know-how and other things that come in and help to operate a company that has a vital interest in Denmark, but the state has still removed the controlling, controlling influence of the company. That is the approach we have to it. As I started by saying, it is not so surprising that we cannot support the proposal. The same is true of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130258	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130306	Of course it's politics. That goes without saying. It is not an administrative thing to make a referendum. Then I would like to say that we can then look at the debate on the reservation of rights. It's about exactly the same thing. There will be a majority in the Folketing limiting the ability of ordinary people to have a direct influence on matters in the future. The electoral system means that the Folketing must, by a general majority, take a position on matters. That means stealing democracy from the people and putting it into the parliament so that it can be adopted by a general majority. It is, after all, a restriction on the influence of ordinary people. It is in this case too. Can the rapporteur not at all see that, as we have a more and more complex society where we are becoming increasingly dependent on a whole lot of things and activities, especially with regard to climate, the environment, renewable energy and things like that, we cannot just throw it out on the market and then say that they can cheat with it. Because on the market there is one law that applies, and that is what makes profits. Companies that can't make profits go back and forth, and then the state has to be the guarantor that the activity continues. It is a very, very expensive and extensive way to drive society and a very dangerous way on the long track. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130425	No, I don't really see that. As I said in my introduction, the whole point here is in relation to an IPO that an IPO in itself does not change the state's control of DONG. It is, of course, an introduction to the stock exchange on which the proposal is based, and I assume that this is also what the question is about, that is to say that we want the decision to introduce DONG into a referendum. One can, of course, take the view that the state should sell out further, perhaps 100 per cent. Out. That is not the view we have from the Left. We want to maintain that ownership, because there are vital interests in terms of security of energy supply. But whoever else has, you can say, ownership beyond the state, is of course an interest in getting capital in, getting know-how and other things. We have no problem with that. On the contrary, we are very pleased with the agreement that has been made, and we are also very pleased that there is a broad political majority on behalf of the Danish people, elected by the Danish people, who have made that decision. So to say that we are stealing from democracy, I think, in fact, is to belittle the Folketing and the representation of the members of the parliament of the Danes. In fact, I think it is quite fine, and there has also been a parliamentary election here recently, when one could also address the question that has certainly been done and the voters that way around so could vote for some people who could defend their interests, also on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130542	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130545	I guess I don't have to remind you that the Danish population reacted quite violently to the activities of 2014, which meant Goldman Sachs came in. I don't think you should sell out of DONG. On the contrary, I believe that one should free oneself from Goldman Sachs if one can do so at all. Now you've promised them an incredible lot of things, if that's what they're gonna have to get out of the company. It is a scandal in itself. Then we should not make an extra scandal about stock-exchange listing. When people can look beyond politicians on this issue and see that we are on a dangerous path, then I think it is reasonable to ask them in a separate referendum, which we have access to. We have the right to ask the people if we want them to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130625	I simply cannot understand the argument. What is this dangerous course? I understand that this has something to do with fear of security of supply. I understand that we are afraid that it will have to be commercialised, that it will have to be sent to the so-called dangerous market. I understand that is the concern. However, the introduction to the stock exchange itself, with the model used for it, and with the broad majority of the Folketing, which is behind the agreement which will lead to an introduction to the stock exchange, does not change anything by the fact that the state will still have the consultative influence on DONG itself after an introduction to the stock exchange. So that argument that now it comes out on the market and that now all sorts of bad interests can take over everything does not hold up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130708	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130712	Why a referendum in this case? Well, this is one of the largest Community-owned companies, which is absolutely central to our energy supply. It is a situation in which we could see that the population was very, very sceptical last time they sold out. And then the rapporteur says that it is just about the listing of the stock exchange and that the state still retains 51 per cent. However, the agreement also states that, in addition to this, DONG Energy, as a commercially operated company, will continue to be able to purchase and sell out activities. That's what we're hearing about. There are plans to sell, for example. We hear about this, and it is power plants that supply energy to large parts of Copenhagen. Well, it doesn't matter. That's something that's important. And we have a history of e.g. TDC. Imagine if you had asked the Danes then, we might have avoided sending hundreds of millions of kroner to capital funds in tax havens, we might have had better broadband coverage out in the outskirtsdanmark, and we might have had better conditions for telephone customers in general, because we had maintained a democratic influence on an absolutely crucial issue, namely our telecommunications infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130832	I have to admit, I don't quite understand the logic. Apparently now it's about how big a company it is. That is not the more fundamental question anymore. I have to say that, from my point of view, I, along with my 178 colleagues, represent the Danes and we represent the different views on which we are now elected. And we have a broad political majority which has chosen a model whereby DONG is introduced on the stock exchange by means of that clause, it can be said that the state still has the controlling influence. That does not alter the introduction of the stock exchange and thus the proposal that is being proposed here, and it can be said, concern which Enhedslisten entirely, quite wrongly raises. But of course you are allowed to raise the concern, fair enough, but it is just not at all a concern that I share.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130920	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130922	An entirely unjustified concern, says the rapporteur. In other words, we have seen privatisations of, for example. power stations in other countries, which have had major consequences for security of supply due to underinvestments that have simply driven these power stations down. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: can the rapporteur, in connection with these sales, guarantee that it will not be, for example? Gazprom, who will own some of the power plants that DONG owns today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120130945	I don't know if sir. Pelle Dragsted has quite heard what I have been trying to express. After all, we have an interest in preserving the security of supply for which we, I believe, share interest. That is why we should not just say that we are now selling out to the right and to the left. That's not what this is about. The proposal here is whether the decision taken by a majority in the Folketing, namely that on the stock exchange should be introduced by DONG, should be put to a referendum or not to be put to a referendum. There is just my simple message that a majority representing the Danes has decided that it should be stock exchanged with the clause that the Folketing, that is, the state, still has the controlling influence in DONG. Of course, I fully support that resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131028	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131031	Thank you very much. We are in a situation where climate change is progressing at a very, very worrying rate, and we know that we need to solve the climate problems, the problems of climate change, in time, then it requires very rapid and very acute reductions in CO2 The cost of climate change is enormous • enormous! This is not reflected at all in the price of fossil fuels and it underlines that the market is not able to solve this problem at all. Energy companies have the opportunity to play a real role in resolving climate problems, but not if we leave them to the market. DONG in the hands of the state, where the state was actually an actor who went in and said that some social priorities were put into the operation of our energy company, would have the opportunity to make a real difference here. Trading DONG is going in the wrong direction. I am aware that DONG has to operate on market conditions today too, but we could draw it closer to us. We could say, because we have the majority share today, that it should not be DONG, but that DONG, our joint energy company, should instead serve what is in the interest of the general public, namely that we resolve the problem of climate change in time and that we act decisively in the interests of society. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131200	I know there may be a long way from the platform and down to the rear rows, so it may be that some of what I have said has been missed along the way. However, today the state holds the majority shareholding in DONG, and after the introduction of the stock exchange, the state holds the majority shareholding in DONG. So if it is the concern that we should now send it to the so-called bad market, then that concern is unjustified. In relation to whether DONG should help address climate problems, one can just say that DONG is one of the world's leading companies in wind energy and that these are the plans for DONG. And that's one of them. One of the reasons, I understand, is that Goldman Sachs and others, ATP and others, have gone in and invested in DONG; that is because you buy into the plans that lie, to expand and develop wind energy. So that must be something for the rapporteur to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131254	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131256	It may also be that it is a little far down here from the back row up to the platform, so I would like to repeat what I said. I'm aware that the state has a majority shareholding. The point is that if we want to use DONG actively in the green transition and not continue to invest in coal and oil too, then it requires us to go the opposite way to the stock exchange quote, that is, to stock exchange DONG is to go in the wrong direction. Because this requires us to maintain DONG very, very close to us and very close to what the people want from DONG, if we are to be able to actively use DONG as an active political tool in resolving climate problems in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131340	Excuse my perhaps a little inappropriate remark before. I heard the question, and I tried to answer it as well. So, I do not quite understand the comment that we should keep DONG close to us, because I see it as part of it that we have control over DONG and the central issues, including energy supply issues, that are being raised. We have it today, and we have it after the introduction to the stock exchange. And then you can think of DONG having to do more on one or the other front, but as a state we have the majority, with the majority stake being able to set a direction for that. However, the whole point of the investors who have come has been that they have said that there are some plans here that they are buying into and that they really do not want to change because they can see any perspective in them. That is why I am just saying: what is here is something that a broad majority of the Danish Parliament, representatives of the Danes, has taken a decision on. And, of course, we fully support that in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131431	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131434	Thank you. I would like to hear why the rapporteur is actually opposed to sending this question to a referendum. Is it because the rapporteur is afraid of the people's decision? Is it because the rapporteur is afraid that the rapporteur's own arguments are not enough when it comes to meeting the people? What could be more natural than sending such a question to a referendum? Not only because of the great debate that has taken place, but because it is a question of enormous strategic importance for a society, how to manage energy supply. Does the rapporteur agree with this? So can we get it straight from the heart? What is it you are afraid of, since you do not dare to take a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131526	Sir. Finn Sørensen asks why we dare not ask the people. After all, there has just been a parliamentary election, and we who are sitting in here have been elected. Some have been re-elected and others have been re-elected, but we have been elected by the people. The people have been asked. We make decisions of great importance every day. I hope so, sir. Finn Sørensen agrees with me. So you can just ask again: why, apart from the fact that there are, of course, some political views that you would like to have another round on this very issue that is so central? Why isn't it the Finance Act? Why does the Enhedslisten not want to send things in the field of education or in all sorts of other areas, which are also vitally important, to a referendum? Now you have just chosen this because you can see that you can probably get some political points out of it, and all honour and respect for it. But I just can't see the logic of choosing this exactly, other than saying that it is because it has a particularly important meaning. Well, I'm also trying to argue that the important thing that the state can control the energy supply applies today, and it also applies after an IPO.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131625	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131627	Thank you. As you know, a parliamentary election is about many, many other things. So did the last parliamentary election. It was very much about welfare and about refugees and other important social issues. So it is like no argument for not sending a question to a referendum, and it cannot have gone over the head of the rapporteur that exactly on the issue of DONG there has been a large, broad social debate. And there should be, because it concerns a society's energy supply, which the rapporteur and the other parties who are in favour of it will now be much more subject to market considerations than it already is. So it is easy to argue objectively for that. If the rapporteur believes in his own arguments, why does the rapporteur not dare to take that referendum? Those are some bureaucratic reasons. There are many people other than the Enhedslisten who want a referendum, so please take that referendum and put it into effect. Let us meet the people together, but divided into the view of what is to be voted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131730	Well, I meet the people every day, and I'm pretty sure of that. Finn Sørensen also does, in all sorts of contexts and in this question and in all sorts of other questions. I just have to ask you back: why is it that the Enhedslisten does not require that all the legislative proposals be said, or let us just say, the top 10%? at the top of the page how to measure it is sent to a referendum? So I know that there has been a great popular debate on several occasions out here in the palace square. Most recently it was when there were some young people out to demonstrate against something in the field of education. There I heard no demand from the Enhedslisten that that particular question should be put to a referendum, so that is precisely why I think it exhibits political errands. All honour and respect for it, but it is not the substance that matters. For Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten know very well that the concern that you are trying to whip up, namely that the state should not have control of DONG after an introduction to the stock exchange, does not hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131828	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120131836	After all, the Liberal Alliance is not in the conciliation circle around DONG, because it was established before the Liberal Alliance arose. However, we agree with the conciliation circle, which has made this agreement that DONG should be listed on the stock exchange. In essence, we do not believe that DONG needs to be State-owned. The stock exchange quote will ensure that the infrastructure on which DONG sits, the natural gas infrastructure and the oil pipe are sold to Energinet.dk, which is 100%. State-owned, which means that the essential and important infrastructure will be 100%. State-controlled. The only thing left is the supply into the system that DONG provides in a market where it is my impression that competition is good. That part of DONG does not have to be owned by the state, and that is why we are very open to selling out DONG further after the stock exchange quote for the benefit of the Danes, because you can then use the money for other investments in society. You can pay off the debt or you can invest in transport infrastructure which is essential; many good things can be done for the money that is currently tied in DONG if you sell to good business. So we support the fact that it should be listed on the stock exchange and we are therefore voting against the resolution here too, because until state-owned companies, which should be private, become private, it is the task of the state to ensure that companies are run as sensibly as possible so that they are as valuable as possible. We should not squander the state's assets, which are ultimately taxpayers' assets, and it is not a good disposition for DONG that DONG's business arrangements should be put to a referendum. This is not the best way to lead DONG, it is not the best way to make DONG a valuable company, so we do not want it. Then I would like to say something about what has been said earlier by Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, who is often said by the left in political debates, is that society has become more complicated and that the state must therefore govern one and the other and the third. On that there are two things to say: firstly, I am not sure that society has become more complicated; I think it is considerably easier to live here today in 2015 than it was 100 years ago and 200 years ago and 500 years ago. At that time it was complicated to be a human being. You really had to work hard to get food on the table at all. Today it is quite easy to be human. So I am not sure that society has become more complicated, I think it has become less complicated. That's one thing. The second thing is that the more complicated things are, the better an argument is for the state not to run it. Just producing a simple pencil requires so many components that there is no group of government officials who know how to produce the pencil. But there are some in some countries that produce graphite that is inside the pencil. They have there are some others who produce the tree. They have there are some third ones that cut out the tree. They have. There's some fourth, cutting out the graphite. They've got some fifths putting it all together. There are some sixths that distribute to consumers etc. There is no group of officials or politicians in any parliament who know how to produce something as simple as a pencil, so therefore, the more complicated it is, the better the argument is for using the scattered knowledge that lies in society and that is coordinated through free market forces and leading to those who can different things coming together in voluntary cooperation to produce a pencil or something that is even more complicated than a pencil. So complication in society is a very bad argument for letting some central officials or politicians decide things. That is actually an argument against.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132252	There are some questions, and the first is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132257	Now I don't have a pen, and I don't think anyone else in the Enhedslisten has any desire for pencil production to be placed under state control. What we are talking about here are certain sectors which play a special role, and I have seen the rapporteur's party, for example. We also believe that we can draw private people into the police, i.e. partial privatisation of the police. However, I also believe that even the rapporteur's party has some areas where it is said that this is the task of the state. I would, for example. Think that something like the defense would hopefully be something one still wanted to keep in the hands of the state. So the discussion here is about which sectors it is important that we have in our community. The rapporteur then says that it is difficult to make a long ideological statement that the market ensures that it is the best and the cheapest. But that is exactly what my colleague, Maria Reumert Gjerding, mentioned earlier, namely that this is not the case with the issue of climate change. For the costs associated with the use of fossil fuels have not been included in the price of fossil fuels. So this is a market error, I would say to the rapporteur, and that is why our energy supply in these years is so crucial. And can the rapporteur not confirm that this sector is crucial for our future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132410	First of all, as to whether Enhedslisten will have nationalised pencil production and other sectors in society: it is a little difficult to find out. For Enhedslisten tries to put a veil over it. It may cover up the fact that some of the old DKPs want to nationalise everything, while some of the other parties that are in the confluence, as Enhedslisten is, want more employee democracy and employee ownership out there. However, I note that not so many years ago, the former Financial Rapporteur for the Enhedslisten spoke of Jysk being deprived of Lars Larsen and being given to the employees/delivered to the state, that was one of the things, I think. So it may well be that pencils may be produced by private owners of companies, but beds may not appear to be sold by private companies. Then I would like to say to this about the climate and the production of energy: it is true that in some private productions there may be negative externalities that go beyond others and are not included in the price, and then it is the task of the state either through a ban on production because it harms others, or through regulation and taxation to ensure that the price is correct. That is an argument for it, it is true, but it is not an argument for the state to own businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132527	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132530	Then I look forward to the Liberal Alliance supporting a proposal to ban further fossil fuels from the North Sea, no, joking aside. I do not really think the rapporteur was given the answer to the question and that time was spent on a scaremongering campaign against Enhedslisten, but let it be. We have, for example. In Germany, a number of Länder have actually bought back the energy supply because it was not safe for it to be privatised. We have also seen some very bad experiences of privatisation in some of the former Eastern countries. Can the rapporteur guarantee that, for example, we will be able to do so? do not get companies like Gazprom into operating our power plants here if they are to be sold from DONG? And will the rapporteur be confident that we will bring in such countries as Saudi Arabia, Russia or others as owners of, for example? The swan mill and others?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132621	No, I cannot guarantee that, because I do not know the market well enough, and I do not know the players well enough, I am just a poor member of parliament and not a big, knowledgeable businessman in the energy markets. But what I can tell you, sir. Pelle Dragsted about is how the development looks in the future. That is why the price is so low and why they do so is that they have an expectation that the oil price will be even lower in the future. And one of the reasons why they expect it is probably that it is cheaper and cheaper to produce better and better solar cells as well as power storage batteries. And in the long term, this will probably mean that all fossil fuel producers will have to close their business all by themselves because of the market and not because of Mr. Pelle Dragsted and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132710	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132713	Thank you very much. I have two simple questions for the rapporteur. One is whether the rapporteur agrees that we are in a climate crisis that requires very, very rapid reductions in CO2 and then the other. The rapporteur has mentioned a little that the market is totally unsuited to ensure that we reduce CO2 One is, as the rapporteur has said, that externalities are not internalised in prices, and the other is that fossil fuels are so heavily subsidised. According to the IMF, it is 5,300 billion. dollars a year. It is a market error of dimensions and therefore we cannot leave it to the market to resolve the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132802	No, I do not agree that the climate challenges are as great as the questioner says, and I do not agree that what is required to address the climate challenges are some of the things that the Enhedslisten proposes. As I also said to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, I believe that in 20-30 years we will probably no longer have any significant fossil production in the world. The majority of our energy supply will probably come from improved systems for capturing solar energy in particular and storing the power that comes from solar power, and then, contrary to what the questioner says, it will actually be the market that has solved the problem that Enhedslisten is talking about, and not the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132844	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132847	The fact that the Liberal Alliance appears to be in some complete, completely foolish climate denial and constantly contradicts what all the scientists in the world agree on is one thing. Something else is that I do agree with the rapporteur, because I do not think we will have the large production of fossil fuels in 30 to 40 years' time either, but what exactly are we seeing right now? We see that countries such as Australia and other countries that have huge values tied in fossil fuels are currently investing massively and hastening to get this out on the market at a huge rate. Because what would the rapporteur himself do if you were standing on the beach selling ice cream with an ice machine that had broken down? Then you would hurry to sell what you had left, because otherwise it might be too late. And that is why the illusion that the market could ever solve mankind's greatest challenge is simply so naive that I lack words.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120132945	There is one thing that is 100% certain, and that is that no political action that Enhedslisten can propose will make the world fossil-free. There is nothing that Enhedslisten can suggest that will make the world fossil-free. Even if Enhedslisten had 90 mandates in Denmark, Enhedslisten would probably not be able to make Denmark fossil-free, but that Enhedslisten should be able to make the world fossil-free, is completely lost to believe. But what will make the world fossil-free is the development of new technologies, and that will happen, and it will happen over the coming decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133020	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133021	Thank you. Now I remember way too many years ago. I would venture to claim that there had never been a market for renewable energy from wind turbines in Denmark and an export adventure and everything else if political forces had not interfered if the people with their common sense had not interfered and had gone against market forces. That is why there are areas, and the rapporteur himself admits this, where the market needs to be regulated. Sometimes we also have to ban some things on the market; sometimes we have to take over parts of the activity to get it going at all, in situations where it is not profitable. We can't argue about that, can we?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133110	What we cannot disagree on is that if there is a negative effect on the environment of doing something or other, for example. If fossil fuels are burned, it must be reflected in one way or another in the price of the fuels. It is my impression that with the very high taxes we have in Denmark, we are above that level. In other words, we are charging higher taxes than the damage caused to society by the burning of fossil fuels. Then there was the question of whether the market can do this on its own. I mean, right now it is in sunny countries, as far as I am aware, and as far as I remember, cheaper to produce energy via solar cells than it is by burning fossil fuels. And it gets cheaper yet, it gets cheaper and cheaper. At some point it will also be cheaper in Denmark, where we do not have so much sun. And then we will no longer fire coal or oil, but will instead pull the energy out of the sun's rays and store them on our batteries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133217	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133220	Surely it should not only be reflected in the price, what damage is done by using fossil fuels? Surely it should be reflected in the price that we want people to stop using fossil fuels if we are not to ban them? Well, I mean, we can't just watch, can we? Although we can afford to pay much more for fossil fuels, we continue to pay too little. If we keep going, we'll have to do something. After all, the market cannot adapt itself to sustainable development as quickly as is necessary, because we have done nothing in the last 50 years or because we have done too little in the last 50 years. After all, the market does not take environmental and climate considerations into account; the market does not take social considerations into account; it takes account of surpluses. That's how the market is screwed up. Now we have come into a situation where we just cannot live with it because we have our backs completely against the wall as humanity. We do not just have some problems where we can say that it creates inequality or it creates problems for some and creates health problems for some individuals, no, it is both you and me, it is actually the whole of humanity that has a violent problem, and we have to say: the market does not strike, what do we do? That's where I think the people are smarter than the politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133332	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133337	That is what I have been saying all along: where the market is not in place, the state must enter with bans or taxes to make production more expensive if it harms society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133351	Thank you. Then we'll have a little quiet time on the series of ministers. The rapporteurs could, of course, have the idea that it was they who were laughed at. But it wasn't, I could see it, so it was probably a joke that got fired from the series of ministers. We'll let it pass for this time. So a little quiet, thank you, while Mrs Josephine Fock comes up and holds the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133415	Thank you. In the alternative, we are co-sponsors of this motion for a resolution on a referendum on the listing of DONG Energy. We believe that the process of the sale of DONG has been under all criticism from the outset. It has divided the entire population and it even divided a government, and the voice of the people was overheard by the politicians in the Folketing, and this made the gap between the population and Christiansborg even greater, if possible, than it can be experienced today. Danish Oil and Natural Gas, DONG, belongs to the Danes, yet the politicians at Christiansborg chose to sell DONG without asking the Danes, knowing that the population was against the sale. If people's confidence is to grow and not decrease, we need to listen to them and involve them in essential issues. DONG is one of the very large engines behind the green conversion, and over half of DONG's total investments in recent years have gone to wind energy. It is quite the right direction to go in our view when it comes to investing in the energy of the future, because it supports the green sustainable transition. Unfortunately, over a third of DONG's investments have been in oil and gas in recent years. Oil and gas are the energy sources of the past. They are polluting and not persistent, and that is why we believe DONG should be in an even more green direction, so that less investment is made in the energy sources of the past. And the more the state sells out of DONG, the less influence we will have on how DONG invests and the less influence we will have on DONG ensuring the green transition. When you sell out of DONG, we are worried that economic interests will push green ambitions into the background. We fear that, in the future, there will be a more one-sided focus on economic profits and that less consideration will be given to climate and the environment. More consideration will be given to the short-term interests of shareholders rather than the longer-term and sustainable interests. At the same time, the process of DONG sales was closed and opaque. The whole process took place in closed rooms and the things that were allowed to be seen in public were deleted from public access to documents. It came, among other things. It is a process of close evaluation which was impossible to see through. Despite the fact that DONG was wanted on market terms, several people said that DONG was not given a market assessment. When it was said that DONG was in need and was estimated at 31.5 billion. kr., DONG was estimated at the same time by other professionals at over 60 billion. kr. In the opaque process, among other things, DONG was sold not only to Goldman Sachs, but to Goldman Sachs' subsidiaries in tax havens in Luxembourg and Delaware and Cayman Islands. It is incredibly double standards that we preach in this country on the one hand against tax havens and tax evasion, and on the other hand we sell the values of the state to shell companies in the same tax havens. It lowers both the tax revenues in the Danish Treasury and the Danish credibility in international negotiations against tax havens. The latest example of the closed process was because we in the Finance Committee were not allowed to obtain the papers about DONG sales, but got 2 days to read them in a closed room after we had handed in our mobile phones, and it was in a business English that most of the people in the Finance Committee do not have the prerequisites to understand. Now the parties that sold DONG have decided that DONG should be listed on the stock exchange. This means that the Danish state will once again own a smaller share of DONG. After this long and opaque and undemocratic process, we now think it is time to ask the Danes. We want more democracy and citizen involvement. The issue of DONG should be listed on the stock exchange, you can actually put it to the Danes and ask them to take a position on it, because DONG is not the government's property, but the property of all of us. It is quite clear that we should have asked the Danes earlier, but we say better late than never, and in fact this is an opportunity and an opportunity to give the sale of DONG the legitimacy of a mandate given by the people. That's why we want this stock exchange quote for a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133830	There is a brief comment. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133835	Thank you to the rapporteur. I note that the rapporteur said that the majority of the people have overheard the voice of the people, in other words that there has been a great resurrection, that many have shouted. I just have to ask if it is, like, part of the decision of the Alternative that if you just shout loud enough, you'll be heard. What about the large silent majority that might be out there? I have at least experienced several times that there have been many who have been shouting out in the Palace Square for various reasons, and fortunately that is possible in this country. After all, we have the basic law to make sure of that. But why is this the question? Why is it not the Finance Act or all sorts of other issues? The question is: Is it a question of shouting loud enough, then one is heard by the alternative, or what is like the motive?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120133926	I think this is a very good question and I agree with the questioner's comment as to whether it is just those who are shouting the loudest. So no, it's not just them yelling the loudest. But what was the problem in the whole process of DONG sales was that it was so closed that we could not get explanations in public exactly as to who had actually offered it and how much had actually been offered and whether it was the right value. In other words, there were a great many uncertainties, and I believe that if a much more open process had been carried out, we would have had a different debate in the public as well. The people were at that time insecure, considering whether it was the right decision to make. And the population I was sitting there at that time was not able to see through what was really going on. And that is why we are saying that let us now open up the process, and then let us actually ask the people this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134009	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134012	I believe that there are a great many decisions that are being taken in here, in which the people do not quite have the deeper insight, and that is what democracy is all about. We are elected here to take some decisions, and I hope that the rapporteur of the alternative will agree with me on this. We are elected by the people in parliamentary elections to make some decisions on behalf of the people. We have done the same in this case. There is also a broad majority behind this agreement. So my question is simply: is it again because you shout loudly that you are being heard in the Alternative, or why is it precisely this specific issue that is so crucial to send to a referendum? Why are it not many of the other incredibly important issues that we decide every day in this Chamber that the alternative should be put to a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134053	I fully agree that we have a representative democracy, and I also have a great deal of faith in the Folketing. If we then think that this is a very controversial issue, then it is one of the reasons why we are selling out a large part of the Danish infrastructure in the energy sector. And it's a very, very big decision to make in the Folketing. We have seen other examples, which in time have developed perhaps not as appropriate for the Danish population, where they have sold out to private people. So again it is because we think the process is very, very closed. It is a very, very important sale, which is very important for Denmark, and that is why we want it to be held in a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134132	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134140	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for giving us the opportunity to discuss DONG again. On the part of the Radical Left, we cannot support this proposal, and above all we cannot, because we think it is below the radar of what can be sent to a referendum. After all, it is in substance in the order of 8%. the ownership of DONG, which the listing of the stock exchange will lead to in sales, and what is, of course, crucial, which has been emphasised by several of us who have been involved in the settlement, is that the state retains it 51 per cent. and thus the clause over DONG, not least over the infrastructure that DONG has. That is why we do not think it is a very, very large decision, and certainly not one that is suitable for trouble, I would have liked to say, the Danish people, who have the representative democracy that works so well in all sorts of other areas. Perhaps this will also give us the opportunity, as we have heard, to have a small debate on how DONG is going and what we want with DONG. And I would like to say that what is behind our deliberations, in relation to where we are now placing DONG, is that we have actually succeeded in creating the largest offshore wind turbine company in the world. What is the biggest bottleneck for that company right now in terms of bid and win and thus win a lot of money home to the Danes, but also bid and thus contribute to the green transition in Europe is simply that the company does not have a large enough capital. Hence the first capital increase. But when we look forward to the potentials of the European market, we think there are enormous opportunities out there and we think it is really exciting that we have such a public-private construction. It is clear that the alternative to the whole journey on which DONG has already been going and is now embarking could be • and I know that is what lies behind the proposers' proposal for a referendum • that DONG was 100 per cent. public and then just expanded capital with tax dollars. But I have to say that I actually think it is a point in itself to get the whole private sector involved in this, both because it gives less risk to the state, but also because we, who want the green, who want the green transition not just to be a niche production or a small corner of the private investment that is going on, have to draw private capital into this market. Now you can't make a direct coupling, but it's interesting that Goldman Sachs announced the other day that they're going to invest for nothing less than $150 billion in green energy over the next 10 years. One of the reasons why they have made that investment decision is that they have come close to some of the companies that have proven that this is a good business. And I simply do not believe that we can make the green transition at the pace needed to achieve our climate objectives if we do not also get private investment. There are some who once calculated that 90%. of the money circulating in the world economy is private investment. Public budgets account for only 10% of GDP. So if we do not manage to turn private investment in the right direction in just a few years' time, we simply cannot achieve the climate objectives we need to achieve. And I think it is a fantastic idea that we are now creating a company with public and private capital, which will probably be the largest, one might say, a lobbyist for green conversion in Europe, so we are in the process of influencing both private investors and public investors, public legislators and banks and financial companies in the direction that we all want. I think that is a fantastic strategic green gain with the direction we have taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134602	There are questions, and the first is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134607	Now the rapporteur praised Goldman Sachs. I think now that if we sat down and had a little longer conversation, we could probably come to the conclusion that Goldman Sachs has not been the world's biggest star in the private investment market. Perhaps they have been one of the main ones responsible for the crisis we were going through from 2008 until today, precisely by their irresponsible way of dealing with capital. I believe that there are no areas in which the rapporteur is at all inclined to say that we simply have to deal with this. In other words, we usually agree that care for the elderly and other things is something we have to have in the democratic sector, in other words within the Community's decision-making sphere. When it comes to sovereignty, we ask the people. It's in section 20 of the Constitution. When it comes to war and peace, we rarely ask the people, even if it has far-reaching consequences, how we engage in the world. Now we have a third area that is fully in line with these two issues, namely the climate disaster. Is it not reasonable that in close dialogue with the citizens we should try to make some of these important decisions so that they are also committed and involved, but so that we also use the knowledge they have after all?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134728	I have no reason or urge to defend Goldman Sachs' many wrong actions in the company's long-standing history. This isn't my business at all. But whether you like Goldman Sachs or not, they represent a billion-dollar capital in the world that they can invest in in different places. And you're a little naive if you're not interested in the direction in which that capital and all sorts of other financial investors' capital goes in these years. That's just my point. What is crucial is that they 90 per cent. the world economy, of which a very large part are controlled by these companies, is beginning to move in the right direction, even if we can have a long discussion about whether we like the companies or not. I mean, as I said, we're keeping the majority of shares. It is, of course, part of the agreement that has been made here that we agree that the State will retain the majority of shares and thus also the possibility of intervening if needed. And we do that especially because there is so much infrastructure in the company. But I'd like to make a bet with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl: Will DONG... President It must be next round). It's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134836	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134841	Now I'm not really impressed by the government's action in connection with the majorities we've had around. When we save a bank, we sit passively and watch instead of actively using the new influence to control that bank. Otherwise, when we use the values of society to enter risk capital, we do not use the influence we have on those posts. Here we may have the core business for Denmark, perhaps also for Europe, in this area. Why on earth not keep it in the democratic sphere where the people and parliament have the real influence? The risk of letting Goldman Sachs dangle with such a company seems extremely great when you see their actions elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134923	But we do have the majority of the shares, so it is the state that has the majority of the shares. That's just my point. But I'd like to make a bet with mr. Christian Juhl, that is what I came from: Will DONG's investments and DONG's composition of business areas, if I may say so, go in a more or less green direction over the next five years? Will we look back in five years and see that when you look at what has been invested in what they have been dealing with, it has become more green? Or has it become less green? I am one hundred percent convinced that DONG Energy will move in a green direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120134955	That bet must be made by the rapporteur and Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl clears outside, for Mr. Christian Juhl has used his two questions. We move on to Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135013	Thank you. It is a little uncomfortable for the rapporteur to keep saying: well, it is a limited liability company, we have still lost the majority of shares. For the rapporteur knows very well that when you are a limited liability company, it must be operated commercially for the benefit of the other shareholders. This means that if you are in a situation it may well be that the situation does not come, but maybe it makes it where it is suddenly more profitable to invest in, for example. black energy or suddenly it is no longer profitable to invest in the same degree in green energy, so DONG, despite state ownership, will not just be able to change its act, its prospectus. Then you have to act according to what are the rules, which must ensure the best possible earnings for the other shareholders. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135055	That is my view, and I also believe that it is the view of the conciliation circle that the climate policy that we are all in favour of, which is intended to save our climate, is best achieved by making legislation and a change in our energy sector in general, which ensures that direction, no matter what we think of DONG's ownership. And I've got it, sir. Pelle Dragsted hopefully noticed that was one of the greatest advocates of my political career. The fact that we need to regulate a public company in detail in order to resolve the climate crisis does not seem to me to be the right way forward. So I don't want that. But if we wanted to, there is nothing legal to prevent it when we have the majority shareholding, in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135138	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135142	We will have to take that debate another time. I can't get that in 29 seconds. But the thing is... now I fucking lost it. What must also happen in connection with this privatisation is, of course, that you are prepared to sell out other parts before a stock exchange quote. It could, for example, be done. be our power plants. I have also taken this up with other rapporteurs. This is therefore a full privatisation, at least an opportunity for full privatisation, in which the parties to the conciliation, as far as I can see, have no influence. Is it not something that worries the rapporteur, in other words who might own key parts of our energy supply, for example? in the Copenhagen area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135227	Where I, and we radically, have a strong position, is that the infrastructure I think should preferably remain in public hands. It is a healthy principle that natural monopolies lie in public. If DONG would want to sell its oil and gas activities from • if otherwise the price is good and if it makes sense etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135251	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135255	Thank you very much. I agree with the radical rapporteur on a great many things, and I regard the radical rapporteur as a very wise man who has a great deal of insight into what both of us are concerned about climate change, and I very much agree that right now it is very good that it really pays to invest in renewable energy. We can only welcome this. However, does the rapporteur not agree with me that we must invest in renewable energy and in a very rapid transformation of our entire energy supply, whether it is worthwhile or not? Let us say that it would not pay in a year's time, let us say that fossil fuels flood the market, and it is worth investing in more coal power stations, is that what we have to do? Or should we maintain something that does not give the same return at all, but which, in turn, is what it takes to save our climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135352	Thank you for your kind words. I also very much appreciate the cooperation. I fully agree that even if it cost a farm, we would have to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency, etc. in the years that come. It does not, fortunately, so we do not have the dilemma, but I agree with the need for the green transition, no matter what. What is my business here is that it does not have so much to do with the ownership of DONG in any other way than that I think we are helping to spread the knowledge of how good a business it actually is for private investors, what I think is needed, because there is a myth out there that it is incredibly expensive to waste money on renewable energy, etc. We can help flatten it. But if the world were to change what I don't see it going to do for the time being, I have to admit that renewable energy suddenly became much more expensive than coal, we should still be investing in renewable energy, I agree with that. That's just not the reality. Luckily.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135444	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135446	I agree, of course, that DONG must now operate under market conditions, and that is a basic pretext, and that is a basic premise which I think we should change. I think we should ensure that DONG operates in a way that benefits society in general, regardless of whether or not those investments are in the short run, because, as we have also discussed with many of the other rapporteurs who have been up, the cost is not reflected in the price of fossil fuels right now, so the market is not working at all when we talk about energy and climate, and I think the rapporteur also agrees with me on that. So my point is that if we wanted to use DONG more actively as a social tool right up the front line, even more progressive than it is today, we should actually go a different way than what is going on right now with the stock exchange quote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135539	In fact, I think DONG is on the right track and is at express speed, and I think that the extra gasoline, if I may say so, is a bad expression: the extra wind energy that the company can get by also getting private crowns with and thus getting bigger and thus being able to invest even more money, in other words simply accelerating the green profile that DONG has. But let us just say that DONG chose something else for some reason, so I would still think that where the political battle stands and where we agree entirely is to get the EU quota price up, and that is to make it more expensive to invest black and cheaper to invest green. Now we are in the happy situation that the market has actually done much of it for us, because the technologies have evolved in the direction that renewable energy is becoming cheaper. Therefore, our biggest challenge right now in terms of renewable energy deployment is that we lack investment and capital, and that is why we need private capital and their investments in order to be able to invest enough in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135637	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120135644	Thank you. For SF, it is crucial that we maintain state control over DONG so that we can secure our common energy supply and also a massive commitment to renewable energy. In fact, the agreement we reached here together a few months ago has succeeded in doing so, because the state must now have more than 50 per cent in the future. of the shares in DONG as a company. I do not think it is a secret that for many years civil parties have wanted total privatisation of DONG. This prevented the Social Democrats and the SF back in 2004, when a ten-year agreement was reached with the then VK government. That agreement expired here in 2015, which is why there has also been the challenge that there have been no constraints in relation to a listing of DONG and not least the ownership of DONG. We have ensured this with the agreement we have made now, and I am, in fact, very pleased that we ensure that the state maintains 50%. of the shares, that the electricity and gas network must be 100%. The government is taking over it by Energinet.dk and that the stake on wind energy overall should continue. These have been three crucial things for SF, because we are, in fact, very concerned that DONG remains in state hands, but not least that it continues to develop in relation to having a focus on wind energy. That is quite the right way to go, and I think that most of the parties who have tabled this motion for a resolution today also agree that this is precisely what should be the main focus, at least in the future. In the SF we would have liked to have seen that in the time when the sale to Goldman Sachs was made, it had been maintained in state hands. It has to be said that there was no support for this, even in the government of that time. That is why you sometimes have to relate to what it is that you can influence. And for SF, it has been absolutely crucial to ensure that we maintain the state ownership and state control of DONG as a company, and we have actually secured that with the agreement we have now reached with the current government. For it requires a political majority to make things a reality, and we actually got through the main demands that the SF had made. We wanted to ensure a continued state majority shareholding in DONG, 100% state control of the infrastructure and a long-term agreement. And I think that is another key part of it: that we have now tied the parties that have concluded the agreement to the other side of 2020. This means that for a number of years now, that is to say. At least to the other side of two parliamentary elections is full control of DONG. Can you imagine what's going on? No, I have no illusions about what bourgeois Denmark can do, but in SF we are going to do what we can to ensure influence and also to ensure that we continue to focus on wind energy • both because it creates jobs in Denmark, but also because it is the right way to go for our climate and our environment. The fact that conciliation can only be terminated after two parliamentary elections also means that a political majority is required for a sale, and I hope that both the Social Democrats, as I have heard today, and, as such, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Danish People's Party, will agree that we must continue to maintain state control over DONG. I do not believe that the pressure for privatisation will stop, but of course it requires that those parties which do not want to participate in the full sale of DONG stand together, and I think that is actually possible, also with the parliamentary situation that will be there for a number of years. But it also requires, of course, that the parties are then willing to sit down at a negotiating table so that we can make sure that we can actually achieve the scenarios on which I believe a number of the parties that are now standing here today are in fact agreed. Then there has been a lot of discussion about DONG and I have to make a comment on it. In addition to the fact that I would have liked to have seen the state retain it and that it was not Goldman Sachs who went in and took part of the shareholding in his time, I actually think it is important to note that with the agreement that has been made and the divestment and the listing that is now taking place I do not really think that the listing in itself is so problematic, it actually means that Goldman Sachs will reduce their ownership of DONG, and I think that it is also necessary to recognise that, even from the point of view of the Alternative and Unity List. With the Danes who choose to buy some shares on the Stock Exchange I would like to venture the claim that there will be a number of pension funds, Danish well to mark, among them I think that in the end the Danish shareholding will increase, also because Goldman Sachs also reduces their shareholding. In fact, I see this as a positive result of this agreement, which has not been debated so much, but it may also be because you focus on different things you want to debate. However, on this basis, I should just like to say that the SF is, of course, the target of the agreement we have made, and that is why we reject the resolution as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140128	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140135	I did not hear much argument from the rapporteur as to why the Danes would not be asked before this privatisation. I am a little surprised because the rapporteur, just before the last election, was out telling the politician that a referendum could be held. The rapporteur put it this way: for my sake, we can then send it to a referendum if necessary. Well, this is a matter which also has a certain history in the rapporteur's party. Now the rapporteur says: I was sorry that Goldman Sachs was sold out. So, as far as I remember, the rapporteur and his party voted in favour of the act that sold out to Goldman Sachs. It's funny if you were sad. So can we not try to be a little serious here, and then can the rapporteur explain what has happened since the elections, when we do not think that the Danes should be consulted today prior to the expansion of the privatisation of DONG?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140230	Well, from the SF's point of view, we would have preferred it to be the state that had maintained its shareholding. I do not think that is a secret, and I think it has also been very much described in relation to the course that has taken place within the then government. We would have liked the SF to see that it was the state that had kept the shares sold to Goldman Sachs. There was a need for an increase in capital, and I have not really heard any doubts about that. Then, of course, you can want capital to come from the state, you could have wanted it to come from Danish pension funds, and I would have preferred it to be. However, it was decided in the then government to say that there should be a capital injection, and then, unfortunately, it was chosen, I think, to say that it should not be the state that injected the capital. I think it is fair to say that it was a discussion that was also in the then government. Then you may wish that you would like to be right I would always like to be right but it is not always that I am right, and it is not always I am able to impose the things I would like to do to other parties. But I think it is honest to say what you want, and I would have liked the State to have maintained its shareholding. That could not be done, but there was a need for a capital injection, and I do not think there is any doubt about that today. And I think even Enhedslisten has actually acknowledged that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140339	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140344	Serious doubts have then been raised as to whether there was a need for a capital increase. As far as I remember, just to keep the story in order, it was after all, but leave all that story behind. I would rather go back to recent history again, because something else, as the rapporteur said just before the last parliamentary elections, a few days before, was that, if you did not have a referendum, it was at least important for people to report out clearly before the elections. And the SF's rapporteur, who is now standing on the platform, did so and said: we believe that all parties should report before the elections so that the electorate can take a stand. SF's position is clear: we do not believe that the state should sell any more shares in DONG. Why should we expect that after 2020 the SF will stick to what the rapporteur is saying now, when then a few months later you do exactly the opposite of what you said before the elections to the electorate you wanted to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140443	If the Enhedslisten's rapporteur wishes to claim that there was no need for a capital injection, then I think we need to study the many notes we have been given on it. There was in relation to the sale of shares I would say that I never think it's a good idea to sell off stocks. I want to make sure that we retain as much as possible in state hands, but the crucial thing for the SF has been to ensure that we maintained full state self-control, which means that the state has more than 50%. of the shares, and we have secured that. I am actually pleased about that, and I do not think that would have happened if the SF and the Socialists, for example, had done so. had sat outside the door.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140528	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140540	Thank you. Well, one thing is that these bourgeois market fantasists are throwing themselves into this listing, but that a party like SF is first involved in inviting Goldman Sachs into the people's energy company and then will send it out on the stock exchange, it just seems incomprehensible. It is absolutely true that one can then hope that Danish pension companies will go in and buy shares, but we cannot know. We can't tell who might be interested in DONG. And as I have said before: will hope that it is still a good business to invest in wind turbines in the future, but we cannot be sure. By sending our all together, the Danish people's energy company further and further into the market, further and further away from political influence, from the influence of the people, we reduce ourselves to politicians who can sit and cross their fingers so that it is not the wrong people to enter the company and that it is not suddenly something else, for example. black energy that becomes most profitable on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140653	Now the state retains majority shareholding in DONG. This means that one has the dominant shareholding in the company and is thus able to control the direction the company is taking. You can choose not to care about that as Enhedslisten does. You can choose to say that we only want something if we do it one hundred percent. You can also choose to help ensure that we retain a focus on renewable energy. We from the SF are actually glad we do. I'm rather disappointed that Enhedslisten again chooses to say that well, now we jump on this little populist wave, and then we say that then we don't care. But I also think that the rapporteur has to recognise that if you have 51 per cent. of control in a company or more than 50%, you also have the controlling share. Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140737	Mrs. Maria Gjerding Reumert.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140741	Never mind, but it's Reumert Gjerding. We can agree on that, but now I do not know whether the rapporteur has ever been involved in running a company or has ever been on a board of directors. I have. And there you can just say that you don't just have to satisfy part of the company's owners. You can't sit with the majority of shares and then decide everything. You have to listen to all the owners. That's the way it is. It is therefore absolutely crazy that you risk inviting all the world's stakeholders into the energy company, which can also have priorities, which can also have wishes, which can also have interests in what needs to be invested in, which is contrary to what we want from Denmark and what really serves the interests of the Danish people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140832	I should just like to point out that we do not have a direct speech in this Chamber. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140838	I think it is rather striking that we are in the Danish Parliament debating a proposal in which the state still owns 50%. and have the controlling share in the company, and then have to listen to the fact that minorities are often taken into account. I don't always think it happens in this hall. There is a majority, and I think it is, both in the Danish Parliament and in a company where, in fact, the state continues to have full control over it by maintaining the majority of shares. At least it's important to the SF. And I am actually delighted that Goldman Sachs is now also reducing its shareholding, as I have been told. In fact, I think that is a positive move, and I think that should be welcomed too. But I agree that you have chosen to wear the no-hat from the Enhedslisten side. You know, maybe sometimes you just have to wear a little bit of the jahat.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140922	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140929	Thank you to the rapporteur. Actually, that was the last thing I wanted to follow up on. Has it been agreed, in relation to how the listing should take place, that Goldman Sachs should write down his shareholding too, or is that what you expect? Can the rapporteur give details of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140950	As I have been informed, Goldman Sachs must reduce his ownership interest, as well as the state reduces its ownership interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120140957	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141000	It has as a consequence that Goldman Sachs is not really able to buy any more shares on this stock exchange. Is that what I hear the rapporteur say?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141012	It has the consequence that when you make a stock exchange quote and there have to be some stocks on the stock exchange that can be sold by Danes or by pension funds, or whatever it is, some of them come from the Danish state, and some of them come from Goldman Sachs. So that means at least from the outset that Goldman Sachs is selling off part of the shares in the first place. How Goldman Sachs then subsequently acts or other capital funds or Danish shareholders I am not fortune-telling enough to know about. But that means that as a starting point, it is Goldman Sachs who, like the state, is putting in some stocks that are put up for sale on the Danish stock exchange.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141051	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141059	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the DONG scandal is concerned, I do not know whether to believe what the people think, but the DONG scandal was, of course, dividing the government into atoms and, above all, the rapporteur's own party. I haven't seen so many Danes react for many years, and I want to know if it doesn't make an impression. In other words, if you have a company and you own it all and can say that you do not want to drive it to make profits, but that you want to put some money in it so that you can help save the climate instead, then it is not easier to manage than indirectly to manage via 50%. of the shares? And there was someone in the negotiations who demanded that more than 40% be sold. of the shares? The rapporteur must be able to reveal this to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141157	I think it is quite fair to assume that if there had not been an increase in capital, which was one of the challenges when we were faced with this situation in DONG, which was mentioned in part during 2013, it would have been a question of whether DONG should continue to invest in more wind turbines, in more green energy. This could not be done if there was no capital injection, and therefore there was a broad political circle that wanted to and I have some doubts as to whether Enhedslisten also thought so, but it is then another story that one should actually keep the focus on green investment, among other things. in wind turbines. We wanted this from the SF, and that is also why we thought it was quite important to make a capital injection so that we could actually continue the focus that was where DONG had proved to be very effective, for example. in relation to offshore wind turbines. This is something that has been a success for DONG, which is why I actually thought it was important to maintain that investment. And that's what we're still saying. SF actually thinks that offshore wind turbines are a very good thing, because it helps us convert our energy production from fossil fuels to green energy. We actually think that's really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141306	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141309	I am sorry to say this to the SF rapporteur, but I would call it the so-called challenge. I do not know whether we are in dialogue here or whether we should wait a little (Jonas Dahl It was just because there were problems with the clock, but I am listening). Well, I just said that I would call it the so-called challenge, because it turned out that there were no major problems in DONG; on the contrary, things were going fantasticly well; we saw that when the facts came on the table. In other words, the very controversial firm Goldman Sachs was invited into a success under conditions that were completely insane, and that also means that one did so, that one played gambling with a good company, which could have played an even better role and where the state could have had even better control of it. I do not understand why the rapporteur cannot see that it is an advantage for us to have a company which is so crucial to green development, including wind turbines, in the democratic sector, in other words where we can vote on things, rather than on the private labour market, where profits are the determining factor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141411	But what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is proposing here is a nationalisation. Now we discussed pencils earlier with the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, I think it was, and we do not agree with the liberalisation, or what Enhedslisten is proposing, of pencil production. I think it is good that we have a Danish company in which the majority of shares are in the hands of the Danish state, which invests in wind turbines, invests in green energy. In fact, I think that is a very good initiative. Then may I just say to that argument that it was going really well in DONG in 2013 that I simply disagree vertically with that. I haven't seen any evidence that it went fantastic in the company. I have seen quite a lot of analyses pointing to the need for a capital injection. Then you can disagree on where the money should come from, and I am quite willing to take that discussion, but that we had a company that worked well in 2013, I simply do not think it is right to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141505	The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141514	Thank you. Since SF had to justify its participation in this agreement, it was, among other things, the case of SF. Mr. Jonas Dahl stressed that SF had now ensured that the majority of the shares would continue to be in the hands of the State in the future, although it was of course stated that it would be better if the State had retained its entire shareholding in DONG. That was a key argument. But that was contradicted shortly after by the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, and also by the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr. Martin Lidegaard. Both said that it had never been a question of abandoning the principle that the State should have a majority shareholding. It had not been discussed during the negotiations, and it had never been spoken of either for the then government, that is, the Socialist-led government, or for the previous government. - Sir... Jonas Dahl confirm the interpretation of the matter by the other two rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141616	I think it is a little strange that I should deal with other rapporteurs, such as myself. We did not sit in the negotiating room where we negotiated. I think that is just such a rather strange discussion, but that must then be taken with the people who have been quoted. I note that it was important from the SF that the demand and the desire to maintain majority shareholding on the other side of 2020 were met. And I know it was the SF that had a pretty strong attitude to it. In respect of the other parties, I would say that they must then answer whether that was also a wish on their part.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141649	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141652	Thank you. I note that Mr. Jonas Dahl doesn't really want to deal with what I asked. If it is a strong argument for agreeing to an agreement that we have prevented something that others would have liked to have had, then it is quite reasonable that we in this House should also reply to whether it is true that someone was suggesting during the negotiations that the State should give up its majority shareholding. Because if that was not the case, then you should not go out and say that you have secured a whole lot, so you haven't secured anything, in that no one wanted a way other than that which was the result. That is why I think the rapporteur owes an explanation of who is right. Is that sir? Jonas Dahl or the rapporteurs of the two other parties I quoted?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141740	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141743	I would like to repeat that I think we should consult the two rapporteurs, who took part in the negotiations, and that is something they must take with the Enhedslisten. I note that the SF had a desire to ensure that the majority of the state's shares were maintained for a number of years too, and that the wording is now called "at least 2020" in that agreement. I do not think that wording would have been applicable if the SF had not been sitting at the negotiating table. In fact, I think it can be said so briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141810	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120141831	The question of the complete or partial privatisation of DONG is something that has so much absorbed the Danes. Most of us probably remember those days in January 2014 when, as far as I remember, several hundreds of thousands of Danes signed that they did not want DONG or parts of DONG to be sold off to Goldman Sachs. The palace square down here was filled with people who said no thanks, and polls showed that as much as 80 per cent. of the population were strongly skeptical of divestments, capital expansion, to the speculators of Goldman Sachs, which the government penetrated. Yet, what most of us can remember was rolled through over the heads of the Danes. Since then, the matter has not improved. I guess you could say to a large extent that the skeletons have fallen out of the closet. One of the questions is, of course, what the previous rapporteur has apparently not been aware of, namely whether there was any need for an increase in capital or whether the new director, who had just entered DONG, had downgraded the value to a totally excessive degree in order to give the impression that there was a need for an increase in capital. The case has been marked by an enormous undemocratic secrecy. Former Minister of Finance, Mr. Bjarne Corydon, would not let the Folketing see the purchase offers from other investors so that we could assess whether his claim that this was the best offer was correct. He didn't trust Parliament, he said. Then we got a new finance minister, sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, and he let us see that he opened a small window: In one day and one morning we were allowed to look at carefully selected documents. When we asked follow-up questions afterwards, we were given a non-answer, and when we asked to see further documents that could shed light on what had actually happened, we were told that we could not access them, because the window had clapped in again. The process has been a long exercise in secrecy and a lack of democratic debate. That is why I also found it deeply disappointing to see the parties behind the DONG compromise, including the Socialist People's Party, held negotiations in September behind closed doors and in total secrecy leading to even more selling out of the Danes' energy company, DONG, without popular debate. On the other hand, it was decided that DONG would be listed on the stock exchange, that is to say to go ahead with that listing, sell up to 49%. of the shares. But it is also in the agreement that it is possible to sell out the assets of DONG prior to that listing. What are these assets? Yeah, we can read about that in the papers. They may be power plants, and they may be the oil fields and other activities of DONG. So here we are talking about total privatisation without state ownership, and that is the whole process that is behind this proposal. We believe in the Enhedslisten that after the deeply undemocratic and closed debate and after it has become so clear that a large, large majority of the population is highly critical of the privatisation of DONG, it is not reasonable to adopt it here over the Danes' heads, and then the Danes must be consulted in a referendum. Then why a referendum on this? some of the rapporteurs ask. It's so much we pass, in here in the Folketing. For DONG belongs to the population. DONG does not belong to Mr. Bjarne Corydon, although one might get the impression when the former Minister of Finance spoke. DONG also does not belong to the current Minister of Finance or Mr. Jonas Dahl, DONG belongs to the Danes, or at least part of DONG, and therefore the Danes should also be asked before being sold out. When it makes it even more important to ask the Danes, it is also because this is irreversible. We know that when our joint companies are privatised, they will be taken out of the democratic sector and then they will not come back again. We have seen this with the TDC, we have seen this with a number of other previously publicly operated and owned companies. Therefore, the Danes should be asked, and in such a referendum the Enhedslisten would recommend a clear no. We will, among other things. because we are generally critical of the privatisation of the Danes' common property. We are generally critical of moving companies from the democratic sector to the private market. Every time public companies sell out, the population loses democratic influence and room for manoeuvre. That is, of course, one of the things the debate has been about today. In the case of DONG, this means that we are losing the opportunity to use the energy company as a climate policy tool. The finance minister himself confirmed that from up here. DONG should not be used as a tool in climate policy, it was said. I must therefore expect the SF rapporteur to agree entirely with this, since he supports it here. In a community-owned company, we can care for society. When you privatise, you think about next year's profits. It is actually very simple, and it is not to stand here and scold on the market or on private companies. That's just what's on the line. That's what public limited companies are all about. You have to do the business that is best for the shareholders, and that is also the consequence of stock market listing DONG. That is what my colleague, Mrs Reumert Gjerding, has said: if suddenly it is no longer profitable to invest green, then you do not invest green. But if we keep the company in the hands of the people, we can choose to invest green, whether in the narrow sense it is profitable, because we know that it is profitable in the long term if we want a planet to inhabit. Privatisation means that we lose democratic power and democratic room for manoeuvre to the people every time we sell out. In addition, there are also very bad experiences with the privatisation of the energy sector. We have examples from among others. Romania, where Russian companies took over a number of their power plants and underinvested with serious consequences for security of supply. I am concerned that it is possible to sell out power plants and other important parts of our energy supply. This does not apply to the distribution network, and it is therefore positive that it remains in the hands of society so far. But you can agree with that or disagree with it, and it is clear that it is one of the things that divides us politically in here. Do you think that the market is best at solving everything? Do you think that everything should be left to private people? Or is it thought that there are key sectors in society that it is actually best that we keep in the hands of the people in the democratic sector where we can make decisions about them? That disagreement is fair enough. But this proposal is about something else. It is about giving the Danes the opportunity to decide. It is about the fact that we should not relive the process that was in January 2014, when a huge majority of the population were steamed by a finance minister and a majority, who in the most arrogant way refused to give insight, refused to respond to criticism and rushed through a decision, despite the fact that there was no haste according to the answers they gave themselves. That is what we are discussing today: should the Danes be asked before our joint companies are sold out to the highest bidder? I note that there is no majority in favour of the proposal, at least not at first reading. After all, there is a little time in committee to think about it. It doesn't really surprise me that this is the case. It's in a tense extension of the process that we've been experiencing in connection with this sale of our joint energy company. But it's sad that it's like that. It is sad that people are afraid to be involved in such crucial decisions, and it is sad that we are so uncritically prepared to dispose of our joint energy company with all the consequences it has for democracy, for climate policy and for our security of supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120142815	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120142832	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120142859	Thank you, President. Back in February this year, the former Social Democratic Government entered into an agreement with SF and Enhedslisten on the mobilisation of funds in the Fund for Prevention and Sustainability until 2018. Here we agreed, among other things, that in future the secretariat function of the Foundation will be provided by the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, also known as STAR, and the Foundation's Board of Directors, consisting of the social partners, will be replaced by a follow-up group composed of the same organisations. That part of the agreement is reflected in the legislative proposal we are discussing today, and the Socialists fully support it. But there's a but. With the transfer of the secretariat function to the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency, a total of 3 million will be released. kr. Because of lower administrative costs. We in the Socialist Group have a clear expectation of this money being spent on strengthening the working environment. That is why we had this clearly stated in the agreement we made in February. On the other hand, with the bill presented here by the Minister for Employment, there is a great deal of uncertainty as to what that money is to be spent on. This is by no means clear from the draft law or from the comments, as is also highlighted in the consultation answers from both the LO, the FTF and the Reichsaudit. I would therefore ask the Minister to shed some light on the ambiguity that exists about the use of funds, preferably today, and if that is not possible, then in the forthcoming committee work, so that we can have assurance that the money will be spent on the prevention of mental wear, violence, sexual harassment in the workplace, to name but some of the important initiatives that are included in the agreement. We do not want the money to be spent on closing gaps in the Finance Act after tax relief has now been given to heirs and car owners and homeowners. Instead, the money should be used as intended to ensure a better working environment. This is needed, not least in the light of the government's Financial Law Agreement, which continues to provide for a sharp cut in the Labour Inspectorate's budget. It is very violent and does not help to create a safer, safer and healthier working environment and a labour market that we otherwise want. Finally, we also see a need for us to identify in the further work of the committee whether the follow-up group is involved and can advise in decisions on the ongoing priorities of the funds remaining in the fund. As we can see, there is also uncertainty about this in the consultation responses. So with these comments I look forward to having the Minister's reply and to the further work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143153	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143204	Thank you, President. The draft law concerns a change in the Fund for Prevention and Maintenance's organisational conditions. It is not, as I see it, the major changes, but it means that there will be an administrative relief, since the secretariat of the Prevention and Maintenance Fund will be transferred to the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency. That is why, of course, the draft law also concerns the abolition of the Fund for Prevention and Maintenance Boards, and that is what happens per year. 1 January 2016, where it is replaced by a follow-up group. We in the Danish People's Party think it is quite all right. Then there is not much money left in that fund either. In other words, if you can make it administratively easier, if you have a secretariat located elsewhere, and if you can save some funds that can be used for other purposes, then we are fully in favour of it and, of course, say yes to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143318	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143328	Thank you. I do not think I should repeat the previous speakers. This is an excellent and sensible legislative proposal. After all, it is intended to simplify and thus save on the administration, and we in the Left welcome that. We would like to support that. In concrete terms, the administrative and secretarial services of the order of 3 million will be spent less in the future. kr., and we kindly welcome that. We believe that this draft law has put forward a responsible solution which simplifies and streamlines the administration of the fund's resources. Against this background, the Left can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143427	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. It's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143446	That's how it goes. You could choose to look at this as something administrative, and it's a little bit along the way. However, the Foundation for Prevention and Sustainability has been and remains an important element in the work of ensuring decent jobs and a healthy working environment for Danish employees. That work must continue and be developed. Even after 20-30 years of hard work, it has not succeeded in reducing the number of fatal accidents to less than 50. Nor has it been possible to reduce the number of accidents to less than 40,000 per year and the number of occupational diseases to less than 20,000 per year. This means that preventive work is still not good enough. Unfortunately, the government and the blue majority did not want to continue this work, as is clear from the Finance Act, which does not fill up the fund, and many good initiatives die out as a result of a lack of money. Among other things: the Finance Act does not ensure that the Labour Inspectorate can continue at a high and sound level. Among other things: new and unknown problems are discovered every year in the working environment. This is true, for example. nanotechnology that has now begun research on. The problems are not always taken into account. Among other things: In the wake of social dumping, serious health and safety problems have arisen for the many new people in the Danish labour market. There is enough to do, and unfortunately I think it seems that the new government is not taking it seriously. However, 420 million have still been lost. kr., which we expect the Minister to call for negotiations so that the money can be used for a healthier working life for Danish employees. The draft law before us deals with an administrative organizational change to the fund. We are in favour of simplifying and facilitating administration so that we can support the main aim. However, we would like to raise a warning flag, because we fear that this administrative transfer into STAR is the first step in the actual winding-up of the fund and its purpose. We have among other things. with great disappointment noted that 12 out of 13 preventive measures decided by the previous government, SF and Enhedslisten in March are now stalled. The money saved by it should be returned to the fund, I would say to the Minister. They don't just have to be used for tax breaks and other things. In this I fully agree with the Socialist rapporteur. The money saved on these 12 out of 13 preventive measures must be returned to the fund. These are the things that make us fear that this is a step on a completely different path and simply to simplify, and we would, of course, like the Minister's comment and also the assurance that the money is not going anywhere else. We would also like a commitment that we should have filled the fund so that it is back up to the full level of the 4 billion. kr., which was originally. With regard to the concrete elements of the bill, the Enhedslisten would like to draw attention to the consultation response from the LO and the FTF, as the Social Democrats also pointed out. They point out that the change from a board of directors to a follow-up group for the social partners must not lead to the social partners not being specifically involved in the future and advising on decisions on ongoing reprioritisation of funds between agreed efforts. This needs to be clarified in the draft law and comments. We will await our concrete position until we have the answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143819	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143827	Thank you so much. This is a relatively simple legislative proposal here. The aim is to simplify the administration of the Fund for Prevention and Maintenance. This is done by the Labour Market and Recruitment Board taking over the administration of the Fund until the fund's resources are exhausted. At the same time, the Board of Directors of the Foundation, which today consists of the social partners, is replaced by a follow-up group composed of the same parties. We can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143906	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120143917	Thank you. Overall, we think it is a good idea for the fund to be simplified and made more efficient, since, unfortunately, from 2016 onwards, there will be much less room for manoeuvre than hitherto. The aim of the draft law, which is to change the administration and organisation of the fund, is thus an equal one, and we think it is a sensible solution. In the alternative, we take note of the fact that the objectives of the means used are not changed and that efforts can therefore continue to be made to prevent and maintain them. There are major challenges in the labour market. This applies, among other things, to: the retention of seniors as a result of the withdrawal reforms, but also in the field of mental health and safety at work, where, unfortunately, there is a tendency for more and more people to feel mentally overloaded and where sustained preventive action is urgent. In this context, we hope that the government will follow up on, among other things. the union movement's call to provide security for the funds up to 2018, where several interventions have already been launched and others have been announced, but the government has declared that the agreement of 27 February 2015 is no longer considered to be valid. That is why, in the alternative, we call for clarification of the role of, among other things: the social partners as part of the follow-up group. It seems logical that the Board of Directors should be replaced by a follow-up group, since the funds of the Fund are committed and therefore there does not seem to be the same need for administration and management. At the same time, however, we consider it important that organisations participating in the follow-up group should be given a clear function, in addition to its purpose being to guide the Labour Market and Recruitment Board, so that it is made clear that the follow-up group is regularly involved and, where appropriate, new or changed priority of funds. To this I know that the Minister has pointed out that there will not be the same need for involvement in decision-making, since, as I said, the funds have been committed. However, we are aware that there are still remaining funds in the form of unused funds, future back-up funds and savings resulting from the reorganisation of the secretariat service. These funds shall be used in accordance with the objectives of the Fund. In addition, the fund has yet another not insignificant room for manoeuvre, according to its savings of approx. 420 million kr. So we are calling for clarification of the function of the follow-up group in the draft law's observations and, moreover, we are supporting the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144128	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144140	We believe that it is a good idea to look at a new way of organising the work, and that is why we support the draft law as a starting point. However, the money must be spent according to its purpose, and that is why we are also awaiting the answer to the questions put by the Socialists to the Minister. A week ago, we were discussing a bill to raise the retirement age. If it is to make any sense at all to discuss an increase in the retirement age, we must strengthen preventive work in the workplace. Today it is the case that many short-timers are caught in a toxic trap between hard physical work, many years on the labour market, a shattered pre-retirement wage and now an increased retirement age. There is a need to strengthen preventive work. We must then say that the government's response with massive savings at the Factory Inspectorate even targeted the preventive work perfectly well! It fits nicely as a tied fist to a black eye. However, the specific proposal before us supports the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144250	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144303	We also support the proposal which we consider to be reasonably uncontroversial. It is actually just a better organisation of the fund and we have no objections to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144320	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, I will give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144331	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the kindly consideration of the draft law on the change of organisational and administrative conditions in the Fund for Prevention and Sustainability. The aim of the draft law is, of course, to simplify and cheapen the administration now, as the fund has been reduced, and at the same time to transform the board into a follow-up group which can continue to advise on the implementation of the fund's remaining funds. I would like to say to the questions put that the revenue obtained in connection with the cost-cutting of the administration of the Fund is a revenue which will remain in the Fund as part of the unused resources, and I can also say that the elements of the political agreement of the spring which have not been implemented by the government will also remain in the Fund as a proportion of the unused resources and will therefore remain for general use after the political majority that may be in the coming period. I do not have any current plans for the use of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144450	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl, so the Minister for Employment must stay. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144501	It's a good thing that that spring money comes back. It would have been better if the Minister allowed those projects to continue instead of closing them down. Then we had that preventive work going on. And if the Minister then says that he has no current plans for spending money from the Prevention Fund, then I will be a little sad. There is, in fact, enough to address both the damage now being done by the new Finance Act, but also the specific problems that are in the labour market. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to bring us together as soon as possible to discuss what we are doing about it and what we can use this money for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144539	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144542	There should be no doubt that the challenges in the field of health and safety at work, in the field of prevention, are challenges that I take very seriously and that I will focus on in cooperation with the Employment Committee, of course, but also with the Labour Inspectorate and the other authorities involved. It's a little outside of what we're dealing with here. However, when it comes to the actual implementation of funds, we are in the situation where a financial agreement has just been drawn up. There are some expenditure ceilings that must be respected. That is to say, we are now beginning to seek to spend more money somewhere else, savings have to be found elsewhere. That is why I was told that I certainly did not have any current plans to start lightening the lid here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144631	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144634	I don't understand. Then I don't know how you guys screwed up that bill. Here we have a fund with preventive funds and there are 420 million. kr. In it. They must, of course, be turned into preventive activities. I don't want them in a box waiting for better times. In any case, you have made the Finance Act wrong if we are not allowed to use it for preventive work. Then there's no point in having a fund. So I would like to ask the Minister to call us for an interview as soon as possible so that we can discuss how we can activate this money. It is very much needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144708	It is not an independent purpose to activate money. It is an independent purpose to have a health and safety organisation and some dynamics in our whole area of prevention, work and supervision that are effective. That's what I'm focused on, and I can guarantee that there will be a focus on that. After all, this is a very, very small part of both the means used to prevent and protect the working environment, and a very, very small part of the area of activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144740	Mr President, there is one more brief point I should like to make. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144747	Thank you. I shall begin by signing for the Minister's answer to my question on how the excess funds will then be used. But I can't do it because the minister says that the minister doesn't have plans at the moment to look at how to get to grips with the excess funds... don't ask the minister when the minister is going to make a plan and, for example, when he is going to make a plan. invite the parties to an interview on how to implement the funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144817	I would like to wait until I have seen the overall implementation of the financial regulation, partly until I have a better overview of how the whole transition in the rest of the field of health and safety will take place with the implementation of risk-based supervision and what will result from this. I believe that there must be some serious and urgent need for these funds to be used from the Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144848	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144852	In relation to the latter, as the Minister says, I do not think anyone in this room is in any doubt that there are in fact some very serious and urgent reasons for using the funds from the fund. I would even say that we had a discussion in the spring about spending even more money than we actually did at that time, precisely because there are a lot of things that are going on. I think that the SF's rapporteur says this very well, namely that we extend the time that people have to work in their lives, but that at the same time we must look at how to prevent wear and injury at work. I think the Minister owes it to us to get an answer on when it is the Minister's intention to summon us. I say: call us to have a discussion on how we can use that money in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120144939	I will do so when I have a professional basis for it, but at this stage there are simply a great many things that are being broken up and reconversion, among other things. based on decisions taken in this Chamber both in the spring and this autumn. And there must be a reason to build on the operational organisation that we are working on in the whole area of prevention and supervision, so that we can call for more money. And that foundation isn't there right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145011	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145031	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145106	Thank you for the floor. I am delighted, and I welcome the Social Democrats, that the Left Government is now resubmitting the bill that we tabled back in the spring, but which was cancelled because of the parliamentary elections. The government's resubmission of the bill and the agreement behind it show that there is a broad consensus to take responsibility for this area. That is very positive, thank you for that. For the Social Democrats, the proposal here is still fundamental: we as a society must not abandon people because they become ill. Some people are in the unhappy situation that after being on sickness benefit because of a life-threatening serious illness followed by a short period of recovery, they suddenly get sick again. This has meant that, until now, they have lost their entitlement to sickness benefit if they have taken up 22 weeks' sickness benefit. In other words, it is a very serious situation in which those who suffer from a life-threatening serious illness have significantly reduced their dependency. In the Social Democratic Party we are of the opinion that seriously ill people who are experiencing such a crisis in their lives should not also be concerned about the economy, and the Social Democrats therefore see the bill as a clear improvement in our sickness insurance system. It meets the objective of the political agreement to provide economic security for those who are in a difficult and deeply serious situation. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145238	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145243	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am also pleased that this bill has been tabled, and I am very pleased on behalf of the far too few people who will be included in it. However, I am not happy that there is now clear discrimination between seriously ill people, that is to say with life-threatening diseases, because that is what is happening in that a condition for extending sickness benefit as described in the draft law is that you meet the employment requirement at the time when it is considered. And many people with life - threatening diseases are unable to do so. As the Trade Union House has pointed out, we have a major problem here. Normally, I do not find the opportunity to congratulate the Professional House, but I do so in this case because they are actually the only professional organization that has pointed to this problem. The Ankestyrelsen also points to this, for the Ankestyrelsen says that in practice this means that a person who is in a job clearance course must either be a member of an unemployment fund or be in ordinary work with pay during the job clearance process. People in flex jobs will not be able to meet the employment requirement. What does the rapporteur think about this discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145356	When this agreement was concluded, we made a choice in relation to the normal procedure for sickness benefit. There is an employment requirement in order to be included in that group, and that applies also to the group that we have included in it here, what should we say, enlargement in the legislative proposal we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145416	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145419	I did not think the rapporteur really answered what he thought of it. In other words, does the rapporteur think that it is right to impose an employment requirement which the majority cannot meet? I recognise that it is a basis for the sickness insurance law as such, but in this case you go out and say that the problem of extending sickness benefits to people with life-threatening illnesses has now been resolved, but there is no such problem. I guess it was honest that they said it plainly. With regard to precisely that group, how will the majority of that group be able to meet the employment requirement? That's just what I'd like an answer to. Then the rapporteur likes it and how should that group be able to meet the employment requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145503	I think it is fair that it is part of the legal work here in the Danish Parliament to question the things that we decide, and that is why I think that what is the answer from the Vocational House in this matter should be taken up in the committee work that follows the debate in the Chamber today, and then we should look at whether that is something that needs to be taken into account. At first sight, I think the draft law is good enough, but it is clear that if there is any ambiguity or something that we should take into account in this matter, then we should look at it. We need to clarify this in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145532	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145543	Thank you. A great deal has been said about this and, as I said, this is a first-reading bill before the elections were held. It was the previous government which, together with the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, was behind this agreement which allows a person who has a life-threatening, serious illness and who fulfils the employment requirement to the municipality, that is to say, that you are actually entitled to sickness benefit from the municipality, but loses them, to have them extended if you have a serious, life-threatening disease. This also means that a person who has been more or less well registered and has entered a job clearance course and has relapsed can have his sickness benefit reinstated instead of going on resource progression benefits. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a very good thing, and we are very pleased that we reached that agreement then. Of course, we support the bill here, as it benefits those who are really seriously ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145653	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145656	Thank you. Will the rapporteur say that the problem of extending sickness benefit for people with serious, life-threatening illness has now been resolved when we are in the situation that a large part of the group that is said to be the target group for this will not be able to meet the employment requirement in order to extend sickness benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145719	Well, it can always be difficult to judge each situation, but there are a lot of cases of illness that can come under this if you take cancer, thrombosis, cardiac arrest, severe heart failure and waiting times associated with invasive treatment, cardiac intervention, cerebral haemorrhage, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, AIDS in onset, major organ transplants, severe psychosis. There are a lot of things that come into this picture that allow you to get these extensions of sickness benefit unlimited, but that means, of course, that you should be entitled to sickness benefit from the outset. Then you get out of them, you can have the right to have them extended. That's what's in it. It's not the case that if you haven't gotten sick from a job and stuff like that, you can get this extended. That's not what it's meant for. It is intended for those who have been on work and have been on sick leave, and then you can get an extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145820	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145822	That is quite right, but the condition for this extension, once the course correctly described by the rapporteur, is to meet the employment requirement, but it cannot be done for a large part of these people, as is pointed out both by the Ankestyrelsen and by the Professional House. Can we then claim that the problem of extending sickness benefit to people with life-threatening diseases has now been resolved? My clear answer is: No, you have not. Would the rapporteur not like to consider whether this is the case and, if the problem has not been resolved, as I think the rapporteur has to admit, the rapporteur will take a positive view of the fact that, in the further negotiations on this draft law, we are trying to correct the mistake made by the Socialist rapporteur, despite the fact that the Minister has said that this is not a matter of concern. But it is, of course, a majority in the Folketing that decides whether or not to correct the problem I have raised here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145920	In the Danish People's Party we think it is right and proper that we look at the problems that may be involved in the legislative process, and if there is a problem that is real enough, we should of course also look at whether this is a problem that we need to address and resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145936	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120145945	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today is a re-submission of L 199, which was cancelled as a result of the discharge of the parliamentary elections. The Act extends the right to sickness benefit to persons with life-threatening serious illness. And, as mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, a number of parties entered into a political settlement in which Enhedslisten did not participate, back in December 2013. As a follow-up to the reform, the parties to the agreement have decided that there should be a temporary extension of the possibility for people with life-threatening serious illness to be entitled to sickness benefit, and that is the bill we are debating today. It is important for the Left that people with life-threatening serious illness can concentrate on getting healthy and not, as it is today, risk losing their sickness benefit. With this bill, we provide an incentive for people with a life-threatening serious illness to quickly return to the labour market. The central point here is that persons who have been on sick leave and who fulfil the employment requirement in respect of the municipality are entitled to sickness benefit from the municipality, regardless of whether the person on the first day of absence has received sickness benefit for a period of more than 22 weeks within the previous nine months. Thus, with the bill, we are creating greater flexibility for people with life-threatening serious illness. In fact, the new extension rule in the sickness benefit system gives people with life-threatening serious illness better opportunities to recover and quickly return to the labour market. And it is this clear focus that we must have in our sickness benefit system, in addition to ensuring that if you have a serious life-threatening illness, you receive proper treatment and are also guaranteed proper support and thus guaranteed sickness benefit. So on that basis, the Left will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150159	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150202	Thank you. The rapporteur may expect me to ask him the same question as the previous two. I do not want to, because I am sure that the rapporteur fully agrees with the Minister for Employment that this discrimination does not matter. And if I have been wrong, I would very much like to be corrected and heard from the rapporteur that he would like to help change the problem that there is an employment requirement that needs to be met. What I would like to ask is such a very simple wish, namely whether the rapporteur would be kind enough to define the concept of life-threatening disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150237	First of all, I think we should stick to the fact that the employment requirement is, in such a way, the prerequisite for being able to receive sickness benefit afterwards. Here we then make an additional effort to help people with life-threatening, serious diseases. Now I am neither a doctor nor a medical consultant, so I shall not stand here from the speaking chair of the Folketing and define exactly what a life-threatening serious illness is. But I will look forward to it being defined by practitioners and other doctors who are used to dealing with serious life-threatening diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150323	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150325	Unfortunately, I was right to say that the rapporteur will not deal with the problem raised by the Trade Unions and the Danish Agency of Appeals in relation to the discrimination that is taking place in the context of maintaining a requirement of employment, a discrimination between people who, after all, have in common that they have a life-threatening disease and that they come from the sickness insurance system. It is a pity that the rapporteur will not go into a definition of life-threatening disease. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he has read the hearing of Chief Doctor Paul Gram-Hansen, who points out that there is a great deal of disagreement among doctors about what to understand about life-threatening illness, and then hear the rapporteur, if he does not think it is a legal security problem, that we are adopting a law on which there may be so much disagreement in medical circles.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150421	I do not believe that this draft law calls for discrimination. It suggests that if you are to receive sickness benefit, there is an employment requirement to be met. This is not new, it is quite fundamental to the sickness benefit system we have today. In relation to the definition of life-threatening serious illness, I am quite sure that I think the medical world will find an agreement on that. After all, no one is served by the fact that it is random, depending on whether one goes to one doctor or another, that one gets the diagnosis of life-threatening serious illness.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150502	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120150516	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the bill, but we think that the ambitions are small and that the will to improve the conditions for seriously ill people can lie in a very small place. The first part of the proposal is intended to benefit the sick with life-threatening illness, which has lost entitlement to sickness benefit because of the limitation of the duration of the 22 weeks. When they re-enter sick, they are not entitled to sickness benefit, but are only entitled to resource progression benefit in a job clearance process, and that is for a single person approx. 7,000 kroner. less a month. These very seriously ill people can now choose to receive full sickness benefit when it is found that they have a life-threatening illness, but as the proposal is drafted, the majority of these patients with life-threatening illness will not meet the conditions for sickness benefit. In fact, it is a condition that they must meet the employment requirement of at least 240 hours of work in the last six months, and in five of these months they must have at least 40 hours of work each month. How is it envisaged that the patient with the life-threatening illness will have to meet this employment requirement when he has received sickness benefit for at least 22 weeks prior to the job clearance period? The answer is, neither can the sick person. It is only the sick who are still in an employment relationship that can meet the employment requirement when they are in a job clearance process, because when you are employed, wages during sickness, sickness benefit and hours of reimbursement to the employer count towards the employment requirement. But if you're out of that system first, of the employment relationship, then there's no mercy. To be honest, it is too little for the Minister to draw up a proposal which is so few in benefit and which contains such a great deal of discrimination against very sick people with life-threatening illness. If the government is serious about this and really wants to help people with life-threatening disease, then we should all see no reason why it should be a temporary arrangement. It should, of course, be a permanent arrangement. We agree with the administrative facilitations contained in the proposal and with the fact that there is no offsetting of revenue relating to periods prior to or after a process of resource and job clearance. However, we are opposed to the deduction of educational and resource-related benefits from paid holiday allowances. We must also make it clear that the draft law does not correct the huge discrimination against the thousands of people with other illnesses and sufferings who are also unable to provide for themselves through work and who should therefore also have extended their sickness benefit. Instead, they have to live for months and years for cash benefits rates while they are undergoing meaningless work tests and resource processes, often contrary to specialist recommendations and warnings that they are likely to get worse. Recently we were given an example that even the modest improvement we are dealing with today is a hole like a sieve. On 9 November, the daily newspaper Information brought the story of 56-year-old cancer-stricken Finn Kristensen, who, after 22 weeks, was refused an extension of sickness benefit on the grounds that his cancer is not at a life-threatening stage and on the grounds that he had not been medically resolved. This is in spite of the comments made on the draft law, which stated that it was not a prerequisite that we should be at a terminal stage, as the medical language says, that we are near death. This case highlights two things: that the definition of life-threatening illness in the bill is completely unclear, as is also pointed out in the hearing of Chief Medical Officer Paul Gram-Hansen. It is really bad for the legal certainty of citizens in this area. As several federations have pointed out, this is a serious problem which we will have to discuss in the consultation I have convened on 10 December, but it should certainly also be involved in the consideration of this legislative proposal. We hope that during the work of the committee we can change the unfair discrimination against the seriously ill people with life-threatening diseases and will table amendments to that effect. In addition, the Enhedslisten will, of course, continue the struggle we have waged for years and the struggle that we originally agreed with the Radical, Socialist People's Party and Social Democrats, namely that if you cannot work because of illness and you otherwise meet the requirements to be part of the sickness insurance system, you must have sickness benefit until you are well enough to work or until you are awarded an early retirement or rehabilitation. Unfortunately, the other parties forgot that when we had the chance to implement that principle. Such a principle certainly does not preclude a review of the process of reintegration into the labour market, but basic economic security must be in order. No one gets any better from the fact that the head is full of speculation about where to raise money for next month's rent. And with the deterioration in the rules on early retirement, sickness benefits and cash benefits, it needs to be corrected, and that is not happening with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151044	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151056	Thank you very much. After all, this is a re-submission of a bill from before the elections, and since we are part of the conciliation circle behind the sickness benefit reform, we are also voting in favour of this bill, which we also intended to do before the elections. The draft law, as several other rapporteurs have already mentioned, provides that a citizen who has received sickness benefit for 22 weeks during the previous nine calendar months and fulfils the employment requirement may be entitled to sickness benefit again if the citizen has a life-threatening illness. This is a temporary arrangement which expires on 31 December 2017, according to which the conciliation board must decide whether to continue this arrangement. As I said at the outset, we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151155	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151210	Thank you. The purpose of the draft law is essentially to amend the rules applicable to persons who receive a life-threatening serious illness so that a person who fulfils the employment requirement can obtain the right to sickness benefit, regardless of whether, on his first day of absence, the person has received sickness benefit for a period of more than 22 weeks within the previous nine months, which has otherwise been the time limit. It also aims to ensure that a person who receives a life-threatening serious illness during a job clearance course and who fulfils the employment requirement is entitled to sickness benefit. The proposal therefore extends the possibility for people with a life-threatening serious illness to be entitled to sickness benefit, which is a very positive step, which we fully support. The uncertainty experienced by patients in the past during an already insurmountable course is now being brought to an end and a gap in the sickness benefit reform for this group of patients is being closed. Seriously ill people should be able to settle their finances so that their condition is not further aggravated by speculation about the economy of the future, in case they lose their daily allowance. It is good that the patient is now given freedom of choice between sickness benefit and a course of resources. The bill therefore means that people with life-threatening diseases are now guaranteed within the benefit system and do not go through the social safety net during such a disease course. Moreover, something really good about the scheme is that it is simple. The way to continue to receive sickness benefit at full rate is to have a statement from your own general practitioner or, for the sake of good order, a treating hospital doctor stating that you have a serious, life-threatening illness. And then there are no more requirements to be met by the patient. However, we have a concern about the provision in the proposal that the patient must meet the employment requirement of at least 240 hours of work in the last six months. It is a condition which seems inappropriate and there is a risk that a large part of this group of life-threatening diseases will be excluded, since only those who are still in employment conditions will be able to meet the employment requirement when they are in a job clearance process. It is unrealistic to imagine that the patient with the life-threatening illness can meet this employment requirement when he or she has received sickness benefit for at least 22 weeks. There is therefore a danger that the target group for this part of the proposal will be even more narrow than desired. We note that the Enhedslisten has tabled amendments on this in the past, and I understand that this time too. The alternative would very much like to support this if it were to be retabled. But we can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151434	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151442	Many new initiatives are needed to correct the way in which early retirement rules are dealt with in the municipalities. The ideas behind the reform 2013 are good, but there is clearly a problem with handling in some municipalities that do not show the necessary respect for our sick citizens. Resource processes are actually well thought out, but they are carried out in some places in a way that does not lift the citizens, but which makes them more ill. How bad things can go, you can sort of look at the bill we are dealing with now. It is evidently necessary to clarify to the municipalities that people with life-threatening diseases should not be called to meetings of the municipality, but of course must continue to receive their sickness benefit. Yeah, what on earth was one even imagined? Maybe the words of this bill say a little bit too. What is life-threatening, serious illness for something? I mean, if something life-threatening, it's serious too, isn't it? The need for this bill shows that in some places sick citizens have been treated in a, yes, sick way. There is a need for a review of the way in which the law is implemented. In the SF's view, the limit on when to receive early retirement should be moved so that more people can benefit from it. This bill is a small step in the right direction, but we would have liked to see more people already included in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151619	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151626	I am, of course, pleased with the rapporteur's speech on a very important point, and I think the rapporteur can guess what that point is. This is the first time I have heard it clearly from a representative of the SF... maybe I have overheard it sometimes, if the rapporteur has said so lately... that it is clear that there is a need for a revision of the legislation on early retirement. The rapporteur himself has been involved in this legislation, and in the first part of his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur says that there is something wrong with the administration of it by the municipalities. However, the rapporteur is aware that in the vast majority of cases the Ankestyrelsen approves the harsh treatment of sick people by municipalities, where the sick have to take the bed to work, and all the other terrible stories we hear? And the Ankestyrelsen has said on top of that that the municipalities are too nice, because that is not how the law should be understood, so that one must be much more consistent in sending people out into all these work tests. So I would like the rapporteur to confirm this clearly so that we agree that we are at last on the same team on this issue, so that we agree that this law should be changed so that the municipalities are not allowed to abuse people in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151742	I'd be happy to pass with Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen. It's happened before, and it's probably gonna happen again. Sir. Finn Sørensen did not listen because I did not actually say that there was a need for a revision of the law, but that there was a need for a revision of the way in which the municipalities deal with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151755	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151758	Then I thank you for the clear speech, which then fills me with disappointment because I put too much into it. I'm so sorry. Because would the rapporteur not like to take a stand and admit that, once and for all, when the Ankestyrelsen approves the municipalities' gross treatment of sick people, which I know the rapporteur himself is upset about, and when the Ankestyrelsen even says that the municipalities are too lax and admit too many early retirement pensions, and that they need to send people out more into all these terrible processes, is it the law that is wrong? We have been told repeatedly that the words of the Ankestyrelsen are law and that if we do not like the words of the Ankestyrelsen, then we must change the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151842	Well, we live in many ways in an evil world, and now we have also got the Left Government. However, the point for us is that we believe that, within the framework provided by the law, it can be possible for municipalities to have a much higher level of implementation of situations which are in fact not only in the interests of the citizens but also in the interests of the municipalities. Because with regard to a number of the processes that we can see around the country, which I am quite right to do so, one can see that they simply do not make any sense and that these are situations that the citizens are losing out on, but which the municipalities are actually losing out on. And the companies you had an idea of once using this workforce will not do it at all because you have driven it out into some extremes that don't belong anywhere. We just believe that this can be dealt with within the framework of the legislation we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151925	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120151938	We can support the bill, which gives people with life-threatening diseases an extended right to sickness benefit. There have been some shortcomings in the rules which have led to people being asked for employment which they have not been able to meet. And, of course, it should not be the case that people who are struggling with serious cancer or other seriously cannot get their sickness benefit. So we think it's right that we expand the possibilities here. At the same time, of course, we can discuss a lot of other situations that the draft law does not cover. But I hope that everyone will recognise that this bill is going the right way at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152027	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I will give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152039	I would like to start by thanking you for the consideration of the bill. After all, the bill has been discussed in this Chamber in the past, but as you know, the bill dropped because of the discharge of the parliamentary elections. I am pleased that the parties to the sickness benefit reform have insisted on extending the possibility for persons with a life-threatening or serious illness to be entitled to sickness benefit. We propose that the possibility be introduced as a temporary arrangement for two years. This will enable us to qualify in summer 2017 an estimate of the size of the target group, which will form the basis for a political discussion on whether to make the scheme permanent. There is a part of the bill that does not concern life-threatening and serious diseases. I would like to highlight two points here. Firstly, the requirements for the follow-up of municipalities are adjusted, for example. when the sick person is expected to be fully healthy within a shorter period. This means that people who are expected to be healthy within 8 weeks from the transition to a job clearance course should not have their case dealt with in the rehabilitation team. In addition, follow-up interviews in the sickness benefit case can be done by telephone, digitally or in writing when the citizen is expected to be either fully informed and on his way back to work or to go on maternity leave within a 4-week period. The proposals come on the basis of requests from municipalities which have pointed out that we can make the rules more flexible and thus give the sick person a better follow-up. Secondly, the rules for deduction in the resource sequence service are changed so that income is deducted only during the period of 1 month during which the person is in the job clearance process or in a resource sequence. Several municipalities have also approached this issue because the current rules are unclear. I look forward to a good committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152251	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152254	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. First of all, I would like to know whether the debate we have had in this Chamber gives rise to a change in the Minister's position on the issue of employment, because the consultation note says quite glaringly that this will not be changed, despite serious discrimination against people with life-threatening diseases. So, I'm just going to probably have to confirm that, but I'd love to rebut it. The second question is: does the Minister think it is a problem that there is no clear definition in the bill of what life-threatening disease is?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152335	As I have said, this is a re-submission of a bill, which I am now responsible for and in charge of. And, of course, this means that I agree with the definition made in the draft law in all respects. This also means that I agree with the definitions made in the legislative proposal. If it is the case that there are things in the legislative proposal that we are able to qualify during committee work, then I will of course look at it in the further process. However, I have no reason at this stage to consider any changes to the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152418	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152420	I'm an optimist to the end. So only the fact that the Minister does not reject from the platform the employment requirement and the question of the definition of life-threatening diseases will then, even if it does not give me strong hopes of it, increase my energy in trying to convince it to change. Then I would say that you do not need to look for a qualification; it is in the hearing answer from Chief Doctor Paul Gram-Hansen, who is going through the situation, and how understanding this question of life-threatening diseases is in doctors and how far different they look at it. Is it reassuring for citizens' legal certainty that doctors look at this issue so differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152502	I have no further comment to make on this. I stand as a representative of the authority for the definitions and boundaries that we have made. I take note of the fact that in professional environments there may be differing views of things on this point. I am sure there are many other areas where this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152526	We thank the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120152544	Here at the end of the meeting there are the following further reviews: Minister for Employment (Jørn Neergaard Larsen): Bill no. L 66 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment and the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. Bill No. L 67 (Proposal for a law amending the law on individual housing aid. Minister for the Environment and Food (Eva Kjer Hansen): Bill no. L 68 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Fertilizers in Agriculture and on Plant Covers. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 69 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Registration Tax Act). Bill No. L 70 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the taxation of nitrogen oxides and various other laws). X X Bill No. L 71 (Proposal for a Law amending the Fund Tax Act, Law on Income Taxation of Companies, etc.) and the Merger Tax Act. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. But the next meeting will be held later today, and for the sake of technology we will have to take about a 10-minute break. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will therefore be held at 2 p.m. today. 15.40.
