ParlaMint-DK_20150421130031	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Peter Skaarup (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 164 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the closure of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission). Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 165 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to tighten up the sentence for sentenced persons who are absent from service). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing of Thomas Jensen as a member of the Tax Council for the remainder of the current term of office instead of John Paulsen Paulsen. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421130229	The item listed as No. 16 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421130251	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421130310	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421130327	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We are stopping the vote because I believe that everyone has voted now. Everyone doesn't. There's still a little cuckoo in the system. We shall take the vote again. A vote can be taken. Everyone has voted now. In favour of 108 votes (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421130502	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421130531	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421130606	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421130638	Thank you. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that a forced abortion is a violent violation of the rights of families and, above all, children. The relationship is fundamental. Therefore, such intervention should not be carried out without a high degree of certainty that it is absolutely the best for the child, or without a high degree of certainty that other and minor interventions are not sufficient to ensure the child's well-being. The child's best interests are always the most important. We are concerned that, in practice, the proposal could be used as a way of saving money so that vulnerable families and children's rights give way in the interests of the severely pressured economy of the municipalities. With this bill, the government wants to relax the rules for adoption without consent. According to the comments, there have been too few forced abortions since the law was relaxed in 2009. Forced abortions are a very far-reaching measure and therefore the principles of legal certainty must be respected. It is already possible to have children forced to adopt as long as it is established that the parents will not be able to take care of the child permanently. In future, the draft law will only make it possible for parents to remain permanently without parenthood. The Danish People's Party considers that transparency and legal certainty are not in order. Furthermore, we believe that we can already ensure a stable and continuous placement without compromising on the law on legal certainty, if that is what we want. It is about interdisciplinary cooperation with the municipality, the network, the family, and it is about ensuring the right match between a possible foster family and a child as well as preventive relief agencies. Recently, we witnessed a judgment handed down in the Østre Landsret, which dealt with a case of forced abortion. A degenerative mother is forced to adopt her child. Several disability organisations are concerned that this case will set a precedent for other cases. I think we should listen to that concern. The judgment of the Østre Landsret states that in the case there are exceptional circumstances in which forced abortion can be carried out without the consent of the mother. We also find it extremely problematic that a murderer who has killed his children's mother can be given custody, while a developmentist who voluntarily allows his child to take care of her child and thereby accepts that she is not able to take care of her child will be deprived of all rights by forced abortion. The Danish People's Party has previously tabled motions for resolutions to introduce mandatory family advice or other methods that work, including network meetings. Here you find the resources in the family and the network, and here we think there are good solutions that you can find together. Unfortunately, we often see families as well as the network being sidetracked, and we have had a lot of inquiries on this issue in the Committee on Social Affairs. We consider it important to help children, the network and their families with preventive initiatives, and there is a need for strengthened efforts to help parents with disabilities. People with e.g. sclerosis, which sits in a wheelchair or has another disorder, can easily be good parents. That is why we appeal to the Minister to clarify this in the legislation. It worries the Danish People's Party that the basis for such far-reaching intervention as forced abortion, i.e. children's studies and parental competence studies are so widely different in quality from municipality to municipality, and we have seen a great many mistakes in these cases. We fear that the uncertain basis could lead to children being deprived of their parents without a safe basis for that being the best for them. And we fear in particular that it will affect, for example, children of parents with disabilities or children whose parents, for example, have an abuse, but who in the future may well put it behind them and play a positive role for the child. Therefore, it is also worrying that the draft law means that contact with the original family is only exceptionally established, as this contact with one's roots and origins is often very important for a child. Therefore, the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131103	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131108	Now we have had, and fortunately for that we have had an extremely thorough examination of this proposal, because it is true, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, that this is perhaps the most far-reaching intervention possible in a family. I should like to ask the Danish People's Party whether it is the case that the Danish People's Party believes that in any context whatsoever it is the case that it may be best for the child to carry out an adoption without consent. Because when I listen to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, it sounds to me as if there are no situations where it can be the best for the child. Well, what we're talking about is that we walk away from the fact that it's two kids a year... it's two kids a year... and now we open a tiny bit more. And when the Danish People's Party opposes this proposal, I can't help wondering if it is because the Danish People's Party believes that all children should always have their biological parents, and that regardless of severe mental illness, regardless of possible drug abuse and the combination of these things, it is still best for the children to have their biological parents as parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131210	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131212	Now the government has also tabled this bill because it believes that there are too few forced abortions, and I have explained in my rapporteur's speech what we think we can do to help these families. Moreover, today it is already possible to do so, but this is simply a relaxation because it seems that there have been too few forced abortions, and we in the Danish People's Party do not agree with that relaxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131235	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131237	Well, that wasn't an answer to the question. In other words, in the government, we believe, and by the way, a broad majority in the Folketing, that there are some individual children, that have children who have the best chance of having a stable life elsewhere than with their biological parents. That is our view. When it is that the Danish People's Party is turning against this, I just have to ask: Does the Danish People's Party think it is a relatively precise question • that there are situations where the best thing for the child is that it is adopted away without consent? Because that sounds like the opposite, as I hear the rapporteur's speech here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131312	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131314	I have to say again that it is the case today that we can already do so. This is simply a relaxation on the part of the government, opening up only to make it probable, which means that the government's objective is that there should be more forced abortions. There will be some situations where you put a child outside the home and where the child will feel very good about being placed in a permanent foster family, but still have contact with his network. But with this bill, you can't guarantee that grandparents or siblings or others will have that close contact either. It is something that has been decided and it is not at all certain that you can maintain your relationship at all and maintain contact with your network, family and siblings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Tina Nedergaard as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131427	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is undoubtedly as concerned about these children as we are in the Left, and that is not what should separate us, in other words whether or not we want them to do so in relation to the children who grow up or are born into the most vulnerable families. Because it is simply a matter of opinion how best to help them. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party concluded one of his answers by saying that it is important for children to be able to maintain a network for their biological family. In relation to the whole debate on adoption without consent, I have to say that some of the things that have made the most impression on me are those of adults who have been forced to live throughout their children's and young people's lives, where they have been in changing families, and most of them, when they have been forced to do so, have been in institutions. As adults, you have experienced standing without this particular network and I think the Minister can confirm that for example. During a radio debate we took part in on this very important ability, a young woman calls in and reproduces that she has thus been put behind the opportunities she feels that others have had in their adult life. I would like to say that when we in the Left support the bill warmly, it is because it is a relaxation. We in the Left want more children to enjoy and benefit from adoption without necessarily both parents' consent. We do this because there are some children today who have such a messy childhood and such a messy adult life because they have been throwing ball between their biological family and the foster family who are trying to care. I would also like to emphasise that we are a liberal party and believe that human actions can also have consistency. Most of us may have experienced this through life. But there is no doubt for us in the Left that if you have repeatedly failed a newborn child, if you as a mother have renounced any kind of help and ignored the health of your fetus and continue to abuse your child, regardless of the fact that the Danish society is putting up with unlimited resources to help an expectant mother through a difficult pregnancy, insofar as she is an abuser, if you have repeatedly ignored the life of the young child, then I think it is quite sufficient to say that it is then probable, if not proven, that this could continue in the future too. In relation to the vote, we have now wanted to help ease access, because we believe it is necessary that we take the child's side in these matters definitively. In fact, over the years, I have been somewhat surprised that we have been more restrictive about adoption without the consent of the very young children than we have been in relation to the slightly older children. Because I believe that a very small child, the infant, can also enjoy a very, very great pleasure in a safe family, where it will then be in its entire upbringing. There has been a single argument in the debate, which I would like to strongly reject from the fact that I have done so publicly, and I have also heard the government ministers do so. In an open consultation, the question has been raised whether it could not be imagined that the municipalities will now use this relaxation, this instrument to save resources, in other words to deprive biological parents of their right to be parents, because the municipality could then save some money. I would like to say that we leave a large part of our decision-making in Denmark to very competent and competent people in the municipalities. It is also the children and young people's committees who decide on these matters and they can be appealed to, they can be brought before a judge and you have the right to legal advice throughout the process. I have to say that this kind of distrust of the decisions taken by our authorities should apply not only to this area, but to all areas regulated by law, where citizens have a right that can trigger the use of tax dollars, but which, alternatively, would not trigger tax dollars. I have confidence in the people and the people we have met during this very thorough process have shown a seriousness which shows that we can safely vote in favour of this proposal, although of course it is the very last tool in the box when we have to take care of the best interests of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131931	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, Socialist People's Party, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421131937	I fully agree that there are children who so much need some adults who actually intervene when their own biological parents fail or cannot be there because they fail something. When you make the intervention you are doing at the moment, including the votes of the Left, where you say that only propriety is enough for you to actually completely cut all contact with the biological parents, then I think it is extremely worrying. Because we know today that there are a lot of diseases you can be cured of. We know you can recover. That is why I would like to hear an answer as to whether this is not basically a savings proposal. It is much cheaper to have children foreordained rather than cared for. And you can easily have children in foster care all their lives, if that's what the municipality chose. But it costs a lot for the municipality, and that is why the road that the Left also chooses to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132028	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132031	Yeah, well, that's how we look at people. I started by saying that I would not question anyone's motivation that we are all based on the best interests of the child. I understand that this is not the case in the SF, but that it is actually believed that the Left will vote in favour of this proposal because we want to save some money in the municipalities. I can say that what the questioner says seems to me to speak for itself. In no way does it stand for believers as an expression of the Left's position on child policy. You could be sure of that if you followed our policy and not just let your own prejudices govern you. I would like to make one appeal: it was asked whether it is not inappropriate that it cannot be proved that one has lost one's parenting ability forever. No, it can't be proven that you've lost your parenting ability forever. In fact, neither can it be done when children are forced to be removed or moved under the current rules, which is why it is also misleading that the legislation says today that it must be possible to prove that they cannot regain their parenthood. One cannot prove a prognosis; one can make a prognosis; one can look at the pattern of life that has been so far; one can look at the indifference that has been shown and whether people intend to take on that task or not. It is the case in the Left that when the choice is between the right which is deeply felt also for the Left, namely the right to be a parent, and the right which every child has to have the ultimate protection of our society when the biological parents fail to do so, then we stand on the side of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132217	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132221	But today it is the case that when the calendar year shows October, November and December, the valuation figures fall. We can have enough confidence in the municipalities, but the municipalities think in money boxes as soon as they have to help the children at risk, and the rapporteur knows this very well, as the rapporteur's party knows, because we have jointly made the child's reform, and we know that there is the cashier's thinking in relation to these vulnerable children. In relation to the assumption, I would say that today it is the case that if you have a mental illness, then it is no longer a chronic illness, and the Danish Health Authority has also acknowledged that. Is it not true that there are a great many diseases that we can treat today and that there is no reason why we should actually cut all contact with the biological parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132309	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132311	I simply will not answer any more as to whether the Left will vote in favour of this proposal, so that the municipalities will save money. In fact, I think it is below the low level, and I think it would suit the SF if we refrain from further argumenting in that direction. After all, it is elected local politicians who are questioning, it is those who sit in the children and youth committees who have the same heart as the rest of us with our children who take the decision and, finally, the case can be brought before the courts. Should it then be cheaper for the courts to say that one chooses an adoption without consent than one chooses that someone should be forced to be brought? Then I would like to say with regard to chronic diseases that it is clear that in so far as a disease is possible to treat, it will be chosen. For then you save two lives: the quality of life of the child and the parent you treat.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132406	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Skipper, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132410	It's actually a little bit on the same street. I would like to know whether the Left does not agree that compulsory abortion should be an absolute last resort and that it should be absolutely sure that it is not at least as good for the child, for example. to have a long-term placement because the relationship between parents and children exists there is love, there are roots, there is history and children are entitled to their parents, even if parents may have a disability and therefore cannot take care of their child in their daily lives. Does the Left not agree that we should be absolutely sure that there is no other way out until we move on to a forced abortion?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132507	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132509	I think that was a much more appropriate way of asking about the position of the Left, and indeed, I fully agree with that. It is so crucial that this is the last instrument, and that is also why we in the Left do not envisage talking about dozens of children to be given away without parental consent, not at all, and we will also follow the area closely. It is the case that when a broad majority in the Folketing has agreed on some things, we can also meet to change them if it has some unintended effects. However, if we go this way, it is in fact because we believe that the legislation we ourselves were behind in 2009 has not sufficiently ensured that decisions can be taken to give up without consent. We have dealt with some examples along the way in the committee, where I believe that I am a layman, but it is our privilege and our curse in here that we are not experts that as a children's and young people's committee one should have had an increased opportunity to make the decision that the child could have been adopted away without consent. So, yes, it is absolutely the last resort, and that is why I and we are very pleased that the legislation now offers better opportunities for an open adoption, so that more contact can be maintained with biological families, for example. A grandmother or an aunt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132629	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132631	I fully agree that there is, after all, the small grip that is actually opening up better contact with the rest of the network, despite a forced abortion. That's what the Left needs. I would also like to sign that the Left expresses a desire to follow the legislation closely, because it shows that, after all, there is a healthy critical look at legislation, so I would like to sign for that. Mrs Tina Nedergaard says that the legislation in force is not being sufficiently applied. There are some forced abortions that should have been carried out which have not been. Can we confirm that the Minister has not been able to state what criteria it takes to implement the new legislation, but that we have had a few examples, and therefore nothing, what are we going to say about objective legislation that we can actually see through and thus predict who is at risk of being forcibly adopted for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132735	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132737	Well, I can actually do that, but without what to say, I find it wrong that the minister cannot give it exactly because I would not be able to, because it is something that is happening in the future, and therefore we cannot say that this is exactly an example of a parent who does not work with his child at all. However, when we introduced legislation to allow children to be given up for adoption without consent, I must also admit that it was because we thought it should be used. It is being used so modestly that it can be said that the legislation has not made the difference that we wanted to see. We really want children who are in the most vulnerable situation in their biological family to have this opportunity to grow up with continuity in their daily lives, albeit I agree with the rapporteur that this should not be a first tool, but a final tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132839	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, but there is a new rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421132849	There are about 13,000 children in Denmark who are placed without parental consent • 13,000. Of those children, we are talking about adoption without consent for two children a year. In other words, out of the 13 000 children for whom it has been established in the municipality that their parents are unable to care for their best interests, only two people use the very ultimate tool, namely to say that the only way we can ensure this child a calm and regular upbringing is by carrying out an adoption without consent. These are extremely few cases we are talking about. I would like to say that if I had read the front pages of a few newspapers over the past few years and had been a biological parent of either a forced-removed child or of a child who had voluntarily placed one of the 13,000 who have been forcibly removed, or one of those who have voluntarily been removed, I would have been well and thoroughly nervous. That is why it is extremely important for me to stand on the floor today and say that, and I think we can also hear from the speech made by the rapporteur of the Left that when we implement this type of legislation, it is on the basis of thorough, thorough consideration. That is why, in fact, it is essential that there are parties that turn against it so that we can have the good democratic debate on the various corners of this. I believe that it has been absolutely crucial for us to have a good and objective treatment of the legislation, but it is also extremely important to say to the many people who sit out there, with children who are forcibly removed or voluntarily placed, that this applies only to two children per year. We are relaxing a little with this legislation, which means it will count a small number more than what we are talking about today, but I have not heard one of the parties behind this legislation have a desire to open a barn gate. That is to say, to the doubts that are being raised, whether we can now be sure that this is not going to be a barn gate, I would say: if it is going to be a barn gate, there is a handshake between the parties in committee that we will then sit down and look at the legislation again. For the purpose of this legislation is not to cast doubt on the many disabled people who, for example, have placed their children on a voluntary basis, because they cannot manage the task on a daily basis and, of course, they must be able to remain in that system. This is about extremely few children, where you just have to say: There are children in Denmark where parents no There are children for whom it is best that they do not have contact with their biological parents. There are also children who may be in contact with the biological parents and the biological family, but who still have the best chance of being adopted without consent. I think, when we take this debate, that it sounds as if there are parties in here who think that this situation never occurs, and then I think that you might have to move a little bit more out in reality, I just say if you think it is the case that all parents in Denmark are able to take care of the best interests of their children at some point in time. I should like to say hello from where I grew up and say that a few people can be pointed out who would have benefited from having been forced away from home a little earlier than they were and where society could have helped significantly more than society has done along the way. But once again, when we talk about adoption without consent, it is the utmost tool, and I fully agree with what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, namely that this is the final step taken by a society, and that is why it applies only to these very few cases. Then I think it's really important to say something about the economy. It was discussed a little from up here, and I admit, in fact, that the municipalities sometimes think in cash. I would just like to say, when we discuss this legislation, that we are talking about two children a year in 98 municipalities. You don't have to be a genius in mathematics to figure out that it's incredibly little money we're talking about. In fact, it is quite heavy procedural requirements that are needed to remove a child at all, and it is even heavier procedural requirements that are needed to enter a process where you end up adopting away without consent. When there are two children in 98 municipalities, I think everyone can figure out that we are talking about hand ears, and I think that we should have that confidence. When we talk about these cases, which are the allerallest children's cases, I think we have to, as a Parliament, stop running what I think is more like an election-like character when it comes to these things. Of course, you take it very, very seriously when you deal with these matters of adoption without consent. I think that any employee who sits in the municipalities, any politician who sits out there, knows very well that this is perhaps one of the heaviest interventions you can make in relation to a family, and that is of course not taken lightly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133343	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. We're gonna ask for a little more quieter in the Chamber. The first, with a brief comment, is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133355	I think it's a strawman who wants something when you say that it sounds like there are some parties in here who think that all parents out in real life are perfect parents. All parties have voted in favour of the child's reform, all parties. They have done so on the basis of the realization that there are children who cannot be with their biological parents but need help. That's why they've done it. That's why I think it's such a weird thing to throw out. Now the rapporteur says that 13 000 children are being placed and two of them have been adopted for forced adoption. I would like to know what the level of social democracy is. How many children do we have to forcibly adopt before the Social Democrats say that we are now home? Is there some kind of level you've set? Are they 30 children, are they 40 children like Norway? How many kids do we have to get up on before you think that okay, maybe this is a little troubling? I'd like to know if you have any number.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133452	No, the Social Democratic Party has not, and I would say so too was deeply untrue. Because what does that mean? Should we then go out and tell the municipalities that they have not lived up to the quota this year, with the result that children would be adopted away without consent, despite the fact that there was no evidence whatsoever to do so? So, of course, you can't quantify. What characterises these cases is that they are extremely different from each other individually. They are extremely different from each other, so I cannot even point to a common thread in it, that is, what makes you say in the end where you have to say that here there is a parent completely without parenthood. Those matters are so extremely different and there are so few of them, so to answer whether there is a common thread or whether there is a number, I think it would simply be anticipating the very thorough piece of process work that needs to be done where you go in and take a position on the individual child's situation and on the individual family's situation. And I don't want to give you any guideline that this is about this number. But I would also like to make it clear that for me, for the Social Democratic Party, for the government and for the other parties that are behind this agreement, I have heard that this must and must not be a barn door.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133555	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133558	Now the rapporteur says that it is totally unspeakable, but it is the rapporteur himself who has said that it is not good enough for two to have been forcibly adopted. It's not like I'm the one who's setting a line. It is the rapporteur himself who is beginning to say that two are not enough. Then it is quite obvious that I am asking: how many are enough for social democracy if two are not enough? That's why I'd like to ask you a question. The rapporteur says that there are children who must be offered a calm and coherent childhood. But isn't that what foster families should be able to offer? Are they not the ones who should be able to offer children a calm and coherent childhood? Isn't it a huge problem changing these foster families all the time for those kids? Why are we not looking at the framework for how foster families work and how to do things better, rather than saying: the system does not work, so let us rather forcibly adopt more?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133648	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133650	Fortunately, these two things do not stand in opposition to each other, and I think there is good reason to look at the conditions of the foster families. This is what we have done, in fact together, most recently in connection with this year's rate pool, where we had to look at network care families. I think it is really important to look through them and really important that children who are in foster homes do not turn into throwing balls either. I do not think that these two things are contradictory, but I think that there is a qualitative difference between being a foster child and being adopted. I think there is a qualitative difference in that. If you're adopted by a family, it's for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133723	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133729	Thank you. Speaking of the conditions of the foster families, I would like to know whether the rapporteur has seen examples of foster families being asked whether they are going to adopt a child, but then they have said no and then subsequently they have been told that they could not be allowed to keep the children in care. Has the rapporteur experienced examples of, or has been approached on, this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133751	I believe that this is something that is not on the subject today. I think that one of the biggest problems in this debate is in fact that we are mixing things up, and they will be again here now, because what we are talking about here are not foster families where adoption is involved without consent. These are situations where foster families are asked about the possibility of adopting with consent. In the second the Danish People's Party does what I think the Danish People's Party has done far along the way in connection with this debate, namely mixes things up, then it means that people who sit out there are extremely concerned about whether it is also about them. It doesn't. This bill is simply about adoption without consent, and the situation referred to by the rapporteur is adoption with consent. It is fantastic to have a debate about the foster families as well. Let us take it at last, but in the context of a legislative proposal dealing with this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133846	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133848	Now I just want to say to the rapporteur that it is the government that has raised doubts. After all, it is the government that has raised doubts, including among the disabled organisations, when there is a judgment by the Østre Landsret which affects, among other things, the situation. parents who have a disability. We had a mother who had a disability in attending our consultation. We can have a discussion with her, she's deeply worried. It is not we who create insecurity; I have to say that. It's the government that creates insecurity about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133917	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421133919	Where I think insecurity arises, when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party includes something about adoption with consent, it is in something about adoption without consent. These are two completely different tools; they are completely different. This means that a lot of people out of the 13,000 who are now forced to be brought suddenly feel included in a group they aren't included in at all, including a lot of disabled people who never get anywhere near getting in touch with this legislation. They are in pain because they are afraid that it will affect them, which it does not; it will never concern them. As I said, it is two children out of 13,000, and that is why I think it is important that we also use the role we have here in the Folketing to calm down for the many families who sit out there and are worried about whether it is going to concern them. It does not do so too far, far by far; we are not even talking here about 1%, which it will affect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134011	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134015	Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil starts by commending the debate and saying that it is so important and intrusive a legislative proposal; that it is important that we have a critical look at it; that it is important that some people actually take a critical look at it. She then ends by accusing all of us who are opposed to the bill of being for electoral purposes and now accuses us of creating insecurity among ordinary people who, for one reason or another, may have problems and therefore suddenly fear that their children will be forcibly abandoned. I think we should perhaps pull it down to a level where it belongs, and that is where we are concerned about the content of this bill, because we are concerned that there are children who will be forcibly adopted without it being the best thing for them. And that's what this discussion is about. The rapporteur himself says that there are two compulsory abortions a year, she even calls it pennies, I think, and then says that it is unspeakable to discuss a figure. She is now saying again that it may be a percentage that will be marked by it, i.e. fewer. In other words, there is no doubt that the government has tabled this bill because it believes that there are some children who should be forcibly removed who have not been. Could we not get an answer to: Who are these children?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134142	I would like to say that the reason why I am somewhat critical of some of the things that are being asked is that I actually believe that some of the questions that are being asked are not on this subject. I have not, in fact, blamed the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for this, even during the conciliation. However, I think that some of the things that are being brought into the debate are unspeakable. That is simply the way it is and answering it would also be unspeakable, because I do not think that you can answer those questions. This does not mean that the debate cannot be good or that there cannot be 90 other issues that may be relevant, but I believe that some of the questions have been irrelevant. Then I just want to say, in relation to this with who it is, that there are children in the very heavy end, where it is crossbreeds between abuse, severe mental illness and the type in which parenthood is not present and where it is impossible to prove that it will not be able to change in the future. And the exact thing about taking the kids out is difficult, but I would say that these are the groups we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134235	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134237	Basically, I believe that when legislation is adopted, it must be possible, not only for those of us who have to vote yes or no, but also for the citizens to whom the law relates, that when you read it, you can see what the consequences of it will be. And that's what's been the problem. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil is now saying: for me, these are the groups that are at stake here. But we have not been able to get an answer as to what criteria must be present so that it is probable that parenthood is permanently absent. And that means there are citizens out there who don't know what this law is going to mean. That means that it is the government that creates insecurity, in my opinion. It was not a question, but more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134321	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134323	I think it is very central to why I think this debate is important to take, I would like to say, because the interface cannot be so clearly defined. I wish I could answer the question, because I think it is entirely relevant that we should clarify it, and I also think that we owe it to those who sit out there and get insecure from it to answer this. I believe that the criterion is about those people who have no parenting ability and where it is not likely that they will have a parenting ability. It is those in the category I think it is about, that is the group of people we are talking about. There are plenty of people out there for whom forced adoption for a period or placement for some period may be a good idea, but where there is also complete clarity that it will change at some point. So what we're talking about is the group of people where there's no parenting power and where it's not likely to come back. It could be for all kinds of reasons. It may be because one has been severely brain damaged to give one example. There's a lot of brain damage for whom it doesn't apply, but there's a few brain damage for whom parental ability has completely disappeared. So if I say brain damage, everyone with brain damage immediately thinks it's the ones it's about; it's not; it's just the brain damaged for whom parental ability has completely disappeared. The same could be said of drug addicts and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134435	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Mach, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134444	As has been said up to several times from the platform this afternoon, forced abortion is one of the most intrusive measures that authorities can take against a child and against the child's parents. From the SF's point of view, we have had a number of concerns from the outset and raised a number of questions about this draft law, and despite a very thorough debate in committee and a very thorough legislative procedure, I just have to say that we have about the same questions unanswered here at the time when we are going to vote on it. It is the Government's desire to ease access to forced abortion because there are too few of them. It's really hard for us to see what kind of problem the government is trying to solve with this change of law. It is true that some municipalities think it is difficult to do this, but we have to see that we understand from the answers we get from the Ministry that not many municipalities make use of the advice they can get from VISO. There are people out there who question whether the decision-making power to do this is at all in the right place, i.e. whether it is something that the municipalities can actually decide on on a sufficiently informed basis? And that is the first step in saying: is it at all a change of law that is needed, or is it rather a better use of the law that is at present? That's the first thing. The second is that it is simply not a measure where there is room for error in the procedure and we are uncertain whether the municipalities are able to carry out this task. We already know it's a fact that there are errors in the processing process. An investigation has shown that in two out of three placement cases there are errors. There is too much, too many places around the country, where the mandatory child conversations are not being held. So that's the next reason why we think it's very problematic to make a change of law on the basis of. The third point, and that is what the rapporteur, who was up here before, also discussed with Mrs Pernille Skipper, is what kind of group of children is in the spotlight. Who is it that should be forcibly aborted now, who could not be if the case was, in fact, handled as it should be, and if the advice that already exists was used? Who should be given up for adoption by coercion and who cannot be given up for adoption on the basis of what is now in place? In fact, we find it very problematic to provide relief in relation to the use of forced abortion without knowing what it is for a group of people we have in sight. Then there is the fourth point which really underlines that this problem, which we have discussed so much, is a real problem. A case has just been settled in the Court of Justice, which has confirmed an urban court decision on the forced abortion of a child of a brain-damaged mother. The Institute for Human Rights says that this ruling from the Court of Justice is extremely problematic because it is a matter of principle and because the Court of Justice has simply not demonstrated why this was the last resort that could be used as an authority. And it must never become an instrument of authority if there are other possibilities to use. And if the ruling of the Court of Justice does not prove it and the Institute for Human Rights says that this is problematic, then it has to be said that it is actually emphasised that we have a rather serious challenge on this point. So let me say at the end that children are entitled to their parents, and that is why we do not really believe that a change of law can be adopted which in so many ways is still unclear in relation to its scope and its scope and in relation to whether one solves the problem that one thinks is going to solve. So we think that this is actually a completely wrong concrete response to a challenge that could be solved by using the existing legislation much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134817	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Tina Nedergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134822	Thank you. We have been through this sometimes, and I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur has also contributed to our having a good hearing in committee. I think it was very thorough on the consultation that the Minister gave fine answers to good questions, so it has been thorough. How the bill will work in practice, when it now seems to be adopted shortly, is also something that is important to all of us in here. What has puzzled me along the way is SF's changed position compared to 2009, although we in the Left are happy that there is a relief at SF may be similarly uninterested in it. But when you look at the fact that the SF voted in 2009 for this increased access to adoption without consent and then the SF also stressed that it was not a saving proposal, but in the child's interest, I would like to hear: is it the change in the wording from • approved • to • probable that parents have permanently lost their parental capacity, which is why SF cannot support this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421134933	The amendment of the law is to change it from proving a non-existent parenthood to making it probable. That is what we are discussing and, on the basis of the things I quoted before, and which we have also discussed during our discussions in committee, it is simply that we do not believe that the circumstances surrounding the use of such a change of law by the municipalities are present in a way that makes us think it is justifiable to the children whom this is probably about, because it is still unclear to us which children we are actually talking about. So, yes, we supported the fact that the possibility existed, but because it is so violent an intervention, we believe that it should be demonstrated that this is actually the right way to put it in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135016	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135019	That's perfectly legitimate. I can only say that the word 'confirmed' has bothered me all the way through because it actually says that you have to prove something that will happen in the future. It is really, really difficult to prove something that is happening in the future. This can be done with retroactive effect, but not in the future. That is why, in reality, this relaxation means that children and young people's committees and, ultimately, the courts can feel safer on legal grounds when they make decisions. I also believe that it is part of Parliament's obligation to the people who have to decide that they can actually comply with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135102	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135105	That is probably one of many reasons why the rapporteur and I are in each of our parties. I just have to say that as long as the municipalities are not in a position to do so, it must be the fact that you want to have a change of law here to use the legislation as it is at present and, as several studies show, are not able to ensure proper processing in some of these very difficult cases, we cannot support the proposal to ease access to forced abortion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135134	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135146	Like some of the previous rapporteurs who have been on the platform, Enhedslisten is also very concerned about this bill. We fear quite simply to say what it is that this is really a saving exercise, so that more children will be adopted away through coercion, although it is not necessarily the best thing for them because the municipal funds are pressed, foster parents are expensive because the case workers are pressed, not because there is bad will as well to feel. The right to family life is a very, very fundamental right. It is a right that parents have, but it is certainly also a right that children have. When children are deprived of the right to their parents, they are interfering with their fundamental rights. Then you really, really have to be sure. This is because a compulsory abortion is not something that can be done about when children are deprived of the right to their biological parents. It is forever, it is forever, that children are removed from their parents. We must then be sure that the compulsory abortion is no better than a long-term placement, which would, of course, be the alternative. We do not think we have received sufficient answers from the Minister to the question of whether that security will continue to exist when the bill is in all likelihood adopted today. The government believes that there are children who are not forcibly adopted today who should be, but we have not received a clear answer as to what criteria should be used for such a balance. What does it mean that a permanent lack of parenthood is probable rather than proven, as is the requirement today? When is a forced abortion better than a long-term placement? What kind of kids are we talking about? And not least, what kind of parents are we talking about? When there is a rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party up here saying that it is like these groups that this is about, one gets worried, because that is a very, very broad definition, and at the same time there are also people with mental illness in those groups, although the government in its own psychiatry policy makes a lot of sense in pointing out that mental illness is not a chronic disorder, but a disease that one can recover from. Similarly, abuse is also something that people, for example. can recover from it, but those groups are still involved. The lack of answers, which several people have also heard today's absence, about what the law is really going to mean, has made Enhedslisten very concerned about whether, for example, there is a risk that the law will not be implemented. are people with disabilities who will have their children for compulsory adoption because they have a disability or if there are people with abuse who can have a minor abuse or get out of it altogether in the long term and thus also contribute positively to the lives of their children, who never get the chance. And Enhedslisten is not least concerned about whether there are children who never get the chance. We are also becoming more concerned in this direction when the guidance to determine how parents with disabilities have the right to receive support to exercise their parent role has not yet been completed and we know that parents with disabilities in practice often do not receive the necessary support they really need in order to be able to exercise their parental role and be good parents. It is not just us who are worried about it that they are also some as the Institute of Human Rights. Basically, this proposal is based on the erroneous assumption that you can replace a set of parents with another set of parents without the child taking notice of it and without necessarily affecting the child. It's wrong. Biological origin, prehistory, roots mean something to children, and parents and children love each other even if there are problems, and can often contribute positively to each other's life and to the child's life, even if there are problems or parents actually in everyday life are not physically able to care for the children. It is a recognition that we usually share across parties, such as: also means that we always try networking before foster families etc., because we know that the biological network has an impact on children. In the Enhedslisten, we think that we should concentrate on strengthening the placement system that exists, including in particular supporting the very, very many foster families, which are becoming increasingly needed, but which therefore receive very little support, very little supervision, too little continuing training and far too poor wage conditions, to put it like it is. We should concentrate on improving that system, but it is also true that it costs more money and more investment than this proposal will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135713	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before a few brief remarks, I must therefore make it clear that there must be more calm in the Chamber. You hear very clearly up here the sum that is continuous. Then there are a few brief comments. It is only from Mrs Tina Nedergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135731	Thank you. I fully understand that we come up with different conclusions... also on this bill, as on a number of others... the Enhedslisten and the Left. So it's not my business. I ask if Enhedslisten does not find that there are situations in which the probability so strongly suggests that a child is best off, that all contact is actually interrupted with biological parents for that matter. Now it can very often turn out to be only the one parent, the mother. If, on the other hand, a mother, a biological mother, has given birth to three or four children, all of whom have been forced to live and who have not had good contact, on the other hand, there has been trouble and trouble along the way, because she has used every opportunity where she has wanted to, to cast doubt on whether it was the right foster parents, whether you should not find some others, and has not really had the empathy and understanding of the child's situation, which I am sure the rapporteur and I share, namely that a child needs security, then the rapporteur does not think that in such a situation we as a society can be committed to and should say as a community: enough is enough. Child number three, child number four should not have a similar course. We ensure that child a safe and good upbringing in some adult people who will love it and care for it and create a safe life, although they are not biological parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135859	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421135901	Firstly, I would very much like to attack the premise that, although it is number four in the line of this thought, as the rapporteur of the Left puts it, it would be possible to replace that child's parents with a new set of parents without the child taking notice of it. Being adopted away, forced or not, involves and has consequences for the children it happens to. So you can't wipe the board clean, to put it like it is. This is one thing that I think we need to make clear in this debate. In addition, I am sure that you can make all sorts of thoughtful examples of families that are completely, absolutely terrible and will never make a positive contribution to their children. It's just rare that this is the case. Often there is something positive, some kind of love in the families. What we must try to avoid is the fact that there is any need at all to have compulsory abortions, but I cannot deny that there are no cases where interrupting all contact would be the best thing for children. We just need to be sure that the law that will then be implemented is transparent and that we can see through what the consequences will be, and we cannot do that with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140023	Thank you. Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140026	I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is very, very rare that a child will have no benefit, no benefit at all, from his biological parents, but it is precisely in the rare, rare cases that we believe that this law should be applicable. That is why it would have been good if we had been able to reach an agreement, but we have not been able to do so. I fully agree that of course it has a consequence for a child to replace its biological parents with some other parents. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... That consequence, we see in these cases that they have a more stable and secure life, but there is also a loss, of course there is a loss, and that is why it is in any case an unfortunate situation. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur to take a position on whether the rapporteur does not recognise from real life that there are situations where it is best for the child to separate the roads between biological parents and the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140119	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140122	I will not deny that we can construct an example. Nor do I wish to deny that one can find an example that is so crazy that a forced abortion will be the case. The problem is that it is not the Enhedslisten who has made a proposal. It is the government that has put forward a proposal and when we ask the government what it is that a forced adoption can, as a long-term placement with contact with the parents cannot, we cannot get an answer. When we ask what kind of children are the objective criteria for the children we are talking about, we cannot get an answer. When we ask what kind of parents this is about, we get some very, very broad answers that sound like this can be applied to almost God and every man, and then we get worried about the bill that lies there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140205	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140209	I think I might like to answer that with what a forced abortion can do, which a long-term placement cannot; it can create a situation where it can never be called into question. That is also why, in so few cases, it must be done; it is very ultimate in relation to the intervention against the family, but what it can do is that it can never be called into question. This means that the child can be sure to always be in the frame in which the child is in. I also wish we could create a better framework for foster families, but this is actually the qualitative difference and therefore makes a difference. In fact, I hear the rapporteur say, and now I quote: 'I cannot deny that there are some cases'. There are currently 13,000 forced people in Denmark, and in 2 out of the 13,000 cases you go in and say that there could be a possibility that the very stable situation there was better. These are extremely few cases, and they must remain extremely few cases. The rapporteur has asked about this sometimes, and now I cannot help asking whether the rapporteur can say when it is too many. When is it enough, when is it too many, when is it that it apparently hits Enhedslisten's ceiling for what is okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140326	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140328	Well, it is not I who have claimed, excuse, or Enhedslisten who has claimed that two are too little or that two are too many. By the way, it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil herself who keeps pointing out that it is two per year and that it must remain a little. Well, how much is a little, and if it's not two a year, is it three, four, five? How much is that? Of course we don't have a number. But it is the government that says that there are too few children who are being forcibly adopted today. But there are more. We cannot be told what kind of children they are, we cannot be told what kind of parents they are, and we cannot be told how many they intend to do so. It is okay that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil would like to try to turn the boat around, all honour and respect for the attempt; it is just not Enhedslisten who has tabled the bill. It is the government's bill that we are discussing today, and it is the government's bill that, to me, is unclear, that is, it is impossible to see what the consequences of it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140426	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140428	Well, for me, the criterion is pretty clear. Well, if you have no parenting ability and there's no likelihood that you'll get it, then you fall into the category where I'd say the child is best off of being forcibly adopted. But Enhedslisten has said several times, in other words perhaps, that you are afraid of this, that a barn gate is being opened. So, what is the consequence of the legislation? When will Enhedslisten think it was a barn gate? I mean, when are we gonna hit something? For apparently two are in order, despite the fact that Enhedslisten in 2009 voted against the legislation; so then it was not right. Now it's all right anyway. Or isn't that okay, so two are too many? So, I simply do not understand where it is that the Enhedslisten would like to land it, because it was voted against in 2009, and then you think that the level that is today is better than some future level. Is it because there is never a situation where Enhedslisten would think it was okay to go in and carry out an adoption without consent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140518	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140522	Sorry, I think Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil is answering her own question. The criterion is quite clear to me, and it is nice that it is clear to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil what this bill means. It should also be clear to the many parents who in one way or another have problems, that is to say have an abuse, a disability, a mental illness, and who are suddenly now concerned that their children are being taken away from them forever. That should be clear to them. The question is, of course, what it means, that it is probable that parenthood is permanent non-existent. What is the meaning of that word? We have not been able to answer that question, so it is not for us to quantify it. It is about ensuring that there is transparency in this legislation, so we make sure that no parents can actually contribute positively to their children who are deprived of their children, and most importantly that there are no children who are deprived of the right to their parents, without being absolutely sure that this is the best thing for them. This means that there must be clear criteria in legislation and that legal certainty must be in order, because it is about children. This is not something to decide on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140639	Then there's no more, and then it's the minister's turn. Here you go to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421140649	Thank you, President. Forced adoption is a really, really difficult step to take. It is also, as Mrs Pernille Skipper mentioned in one of her questions, the final step and therefore, of course, it must be on a very, very robust basis. That is why, of course, I am very pleased that legal certainty is in order and that there is transparency, as several speakers have said. Let me also state straight away that a disability has nothing to do with parental capacity. You can easily have a disability and have an excellent parenting ability. It has also been said that there are too many mistakes in the cases and there is a concern about that. But we just have to remember that when we talk about these cases, of which there are very, very few, they are being dragged into a particular clue, and I know there have been no mistakes there. Because we are really, really aware that there must be no mistakes. It can start with a section 50 study, it can start with reporting and end there, and of course a thorough investigation is being carried out of the case officers who may now be involved. The case will be referred to the children and young people's committee, where there is also a thoroughness. Afterwards it comes in the Ankestyrelsen and the state administration, and it helps to improve legal certainty. Then Mrs Pernille Skipper asks quite specifically, and so does Mrs Trine Mach: who are the children? It is, of course, very difficult to provide an exhaustive list of that field, but it is a very good question, and let me try to read an example. One of the kids who didn't actually get through the needle's eye that we're talking about... and it's a needle's eye with the current rules... is a little girl who was placed outside the home. She was placed outside the home already 2 hours after birth. The municipality decided that there should be no association or any contact between mother and daughter. The girl's father actually gave his consent to adoption while the mother opposed adoption. The rejection was given before the girl was 1 year old. It's exactly in this case that we could reach out to a girl like that. One cannot put her on standby and wait for the improvement that may, perhaps, not come. This will help to influence her development and, unfortunately, in a very negative direction. It's like I started saying, hard. It takes courage and, as I have said before, I do not know any case managers who will go into this process to save money. You do it because you want the child's best interests. Sometimes we experience situations where we have to choose who we want to give a chance. It may be the parents in some cases, and it may be the child in other cases. So when it comes to compulsory adoption, which is something really, really difficult, the government chooses the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141038	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141044	Thank you. I just want to know if the Minister understands the concerns of the disability organisations. Does the Minister understand it? Can he follow the disability organisations in their concern for this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141057	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141058	Yeah, I can do that. I understand that those organisations are worried. I can also understand that, given that, as I think Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil mentioned, there have been a lot of misunderstandings. There have also been a lot of newspaper headlines and articles that I do not think have provided this bill, which is difficult, the justice it should be given. Because, as I have said all the way through, it takes courage and it is difficult. But I can easily understand their concern, no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141131	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141133	Now that kids have to be forcibly kidnapped and the government is doing this relaxation, I just think there's something missing from the network. Perhaps the Minister could elaborate on that. Even if your child has a disability, is development impaired, and you have had a child, which it will certainly have to be given away, what is it like in relation to the network? It may be that you have a sister or brother who can take on the adoption of the child. Will that area be properly covered before giving up the child to a foreign family?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141207	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141209	Well, in these cases, things are being covered very, very thoroughly, first and foremost because it is a very, very violent intervention. Before you get as far as thinking in forced adoption, the child is in the category that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil also mentioned, namely among the 12 000 to 13 000 children who have been removed. That is why, of course, things are being uncovered. I would also just like to mention another misunderstanding. Of course, you also look at whether this makes sense and whether there is a need, for example. I don't know what you're talking about. This has not really been the case in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141248	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Mach, Socialist People's Party. A brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141253	Thank you. We've discussed this sometimes during the process. People like Lisbeth Zornig have problematized whether the decision-making power to make this very serious decision to forcibly adopt a child is in the right place with the way it's screwed up now. What is actually the reason why the government has not chosen to take up that discussion now that it is actually making a change of law in this area, and is considering whether to place decision-making powers elsewhere than in a municipality, where, if we agree that this should not lead to an open barn of examples, it must be assumed that the municipalities have very, very little, not to say no prior experience, to build such a decision on, again considering that we know that there are errors in both housing cases and the involvement of children and the conduct of child conversations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141341	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141343	In fact, I believe that it would risk weakening legal certainty if only decision-making powers were placed in the municipality. It is the case that the case starts in the municipality, it does all the cases, and then it goes to the children and young people committee, where there are experts looking at the matter and where, of course, the parents also have the opportunity to give their opinion with a lawyer. And, yes, I actually lost track of things, but there are a large number of measures that actually help to increase legal certainty. And I think that's better than just putting it somewhere. I don't know if Lisbeth Zorni thinks it should only be in the municipality, but as it is now, there are a lot of experts inside. In addition to those I have mentioned, there are both psychiatrists and doctors, they are taken from psychologists and so on. So you get a solid foundation to stand on before you make such a violent decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141455	Mrs. Trine Mach, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141459	I am a little surprised by the Minister's use of the word robust. In view of the fact that there are already a great many errors in placement cases and that the municipalities do not make enough mandatory child conversations, which in such cases as this one, if the child is not a newborn, but it has reached an age of conversation, must be said to be right, really important to carry out, how can the Minister believe that with this change of law suddenly the whole system will be corrected, the municipalities will use VISO, and one understands what it is, one wants to politically and so on.? What makes the Minister so sure that we will now only have a really thorough and well-documented and comprehensive procedure? That is one question. The second is in relation to the example used by the Minister before. What is it that the amendment of the law can do in relation to the specific case? Will the Minister try to comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141548	Thank you. Several Members have arrived in the Chamber because we are about to vote, but it is still necessary, therefore, for the last part of the debate to be quiet here. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141557	Thank you. Unfortunately, I think it is to mix things up well and thoroughly. Because it is true that there are errors in the procedure when it comes to placement cases, but, as I said earlier, these cases are taken out to a particular point, and there is a great deal of vigilance and care in dealing with them. I do not deny that there are errors in other placement cases, but exactly with regard to this, I am aware that there have been no errors. What may exist is that there may be inadequate information, we have examples of that, but new information has then been collected in order to re-establish a robust basis. So that's two different things. As to what the amendment of the law will do for the girl I mentioned earlier, I am very, very happy that it will be possible to allow her to be adopted without consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141656	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141701	I find it extremely confusing. Because the Minister keeps saying that no mistakes have been made in these very cases. Then why do you change it? What is it that the Minister is calling for, which is not good enough today, since we are beginning to relax it? Is it because two aren't enough? Is it because we have to forcibly adopt far more? Today the system is making a lot of mistakes, in terms of placements, in relation to how many breaks there are in relation to children's families, and these conversations, all these things, and that's why we've done the child's reform, a supervisory reform and a placement reform. Isn't that a declaration of bankruptcy? I mean, because the system makes mistakes, you say that it must be a lot easier to be able to forcibly adopt, and then you just open a barn gate. Because you cannot correct the system, and therefore it must be much easier to adopt it. Isn't that a declaration of failure, sir? Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141757	I can only continue to repeat that the fact that there are errors in cases has nothing to do with this bill; it has not. It is true that there are errors in placement cases, but when it comes to giving up for adoption without consent, these cases are taken for a special lead, and they are looked at by lots of experts, they are on the children and the youth committee, they are on the Ankestyrelsen and in the state administration. This is an expression of the fact that there is legal certainty that really is battling. One can also test one's case in the courts and, of course, all the way through there is looked at the cases with exceptionally large glasses. As I have also said, and I am doing it again, I cannot help the rapporteur disagreeing, because that is the way it is. I can only say that I know there has been no error in these matters, and that is what I said in the conciliation, and there has not only been a consultation. We have also had a technical review, we have answered questions, and we have actually answered many of the questions that are asked again, and that is fair enough, but that may not be what this is about. What this is about is that we disagree, and there is nothing I can do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141912	Thank you. Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421141915	Yes, yes, of course, we disagree, and a technical review cannot help so much, that is, when there is political disagreement. The minister keeps saying that when you do these things, it has nothing to do with mistakes, and then I say it has so much to do. Because if you start to open up that it should be easier to have forced abortions and you do not think that two are enough, then it has to be because you have a goal that more people should be forcibly removed. Then we ask, there are the critics: if the purpose is always for children to have a safe and coherent childhood, why is it that they are not looking at it? Why is it that we cannot give these children the safe and coherent childhood with the system we have? Why is it that all the mistakes have been made, that we have reached the point that we should now rather adopt compulsory adoption, because the system cannot be put right? The Minister said that improvements do not come naturally, and I fully agree with that, because it requires more resources in relation to abuse treatment, in relation to mental illness and many other things. What is this government going to do in terms of correcting, for example. the treatment of abuse, in relation to exactly these types of families?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142020	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142026	If you open up, as the rapporteur has said, it is by its very nature that these matters come into the particular track, and again: I have tried to explain it a number of times, and we have answered it. As I have said, it may well be that the rapporteur does not think that a technical review is very good, but it is a wish of other rapporteurs, and I think that somewhere we have presented things as they are. Let me say again that it is at the same time as that and it does not rule out each other there is legal certainty for parents. These two things play really, really well together in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142138	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142149	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 78 (V, S, RV, LA and KF), against 30 (DF, SF and EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142250	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142309	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142351	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142413	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142447	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142505	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 94 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), against 13 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142546	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142624	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-4 by the Minister for Industry and Growth, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142638	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142647	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 90 (V, S, RV, SF, EL and KF), against 18 (DF and LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142720	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142746	Nobody wants to vote, so I am looking at Amendment No. 1 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142800	Then the negotiations will then be about the bill as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142809	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 74 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL and KF (by mistake)) voted against 5 (LA), abstained 28 (V). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142846	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142901	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. voted 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142939	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421142954	The adoption of the legislative proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 108 votes (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143027	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143041	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143118	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143136	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 107 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143209	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143222	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 94 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), against 13 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143259	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143317	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 91 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and KF) voted against 5 (LA), abstaining 8 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143404	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, Mrs. Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143436	I would like to draw your attention very quietly to what we are voting on here. This motion for a resolution tabled by the Left and the other bourgeois parties is blocking the entry into force of the Act No. 108 to be adopted. It is quite clear that it is proposed to withdraw the item No. 108 to ensure that the police get 100 million. kr. extra for counter-terrorism. Back in the Folketing is a majority of parties consisting of SF and Enhedslisten and the government who want to give more money to the police, so we have the right protection against terror and can ensure proper conditions for our officers. A majority of parties consisting of Enhedslisten, SF and the government want more money to be given to protect our Jewish community. But what the bourgeois parties are proposing is that this appropriation should be withdrawn, and that is what we will be voting on in a moment. I just want to make it clear that I think it is deeply irresponsible, and I think it is deeply a pity and a disgrace for our democracy that you do not want to support the police that ensure the security of the citizens, because you want this to be a matter of political mud throwing and campaigning. It is a pity, and this should not be the case in the Danish people's government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143614	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143618	Thank you for a very polemical post. After all, Mrs Bramsen was present during at least part of the debate last Friday. Otherwise, of course, Mrs Trine Bramssen has, as one might expect, taken into account what was discussed. I would just like to know whether she cannot confirm that what we discussed last Friday and what the Left clearly indicated was that we support the act, but that we want the overall funding of the terrorist effort, and we also want to provide the police with more funds than the government is proposing. Can Mrs Trine Bramsen not confirm that that was said by, among others, Mr Bramsen? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you and a large number of other bourgeois rapporteurs from Parliament's platform on Friday?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143658	This does not alter the fact that the proposal on which we will be voting in a moment is intended to ensure that action is taken. 108, which gives 100 million. kr. extra to our police, back. The joint motion for a resolution tabled by the bourgeoisie is therefore the withdrawal of this 100 million. kr. to our police back. I think that is deeply irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143722	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143725	Then I would recommend Mrs Trine Bramsen not only to read the first line of the resolution but the whole resolution. I think Mrs Trine Bramssen has done that, and she then pretends she hasn't. If she does, she will certainly be able to confirm that the motion for a resolution says that it wants to withdraw the dossier with a view to presenting an overall funding which means that the increased guarding effort required after the terrorist attack does not go beyond other police work, as many police officers have warned of in recent days. That is what the record says, not that the bourgeois do not want to give the police any more money. That is simply wrong, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143810	Well, we just have to deal with what this resolution means. That means you draw the 100 million. kr. extra to the police back, for which there is a majority. If the bourgeois proposal is adopted here, that means that 100 million will not be given. kr. extra to the police. That is where we in the Socialist Group take the view that we already think it has gone far too long. We do not understand that the bourgeois parties have shown such irresponsibility that more time has gone by than was necessary before the police could get this extra money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143847	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143850	I have to ask about this unnecessary polemical remark made by the Socialist rapporteur. Because is not the fact that the government's proposals mean that the police are being starved? that the police staffing with ordinary police preparedness is currently being neglected because the government is not listening to the Conservative People's Party and the Left and other bourgeois parties who say, also in relation to the record here, that there is a need for significantly more resources for the police? So what this is about is that the government is currently starving the police and that ordinary police preparedness is currently declining because the government is not aware of its responsibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143925	But let us just stick to the meaning of this motion for a resolution tabled by the bourgeois parties. This means that we have to draw an act that is going to be 100 million. kr. extra to the police, back. If the resolution is adopted, there will be no 100 million. kr. extra to the police. I think that is deeply irresponsible, and I cannot agree at all to what is known as starving the police. This is about adding an extra $100 million to the police. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143952	Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421143955	It is a very strange form of controversy that is taking place here by the Socialist rapporteur. Because the crux of the matter is that the bourgeois parties will spend more money because we will not be involved in starving the police. We would like there to be an alert at the police stations. We want to ensure that burglary is solved; we want to ensure that assault crimes are solved as well, but we still want to get away well with the actions and police preparedness in Copenhagen. So the reality is that the government could simply choose to follow the wishes of the bourgeois, strengthen the police and then ensure the security and security of the citizens, by giving the police the necessary resources, and that is not what the government's proposals do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144037	Before it gets wrapped up in a debate on polemics and gift books, let's still hold on to what this resolution is about. Conservatives, together with the other bourgeois parties, have put forward a proposal drawing on the action to give 100 million. kr. extra to the police, back. Then we can have a discussion and we Social Democrats will gladly take it on whether additional funds and resources should be provided in other forms. However, the proposal which the bourgeois people will shortly be voting for will, if it is adopted, removes the piece of action which gives 100 million. kr. extra to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144112	Sir. Karsten Nonbo, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144116	Yes, that will also be a brief comment, in order to enter into a debate with Mrs Trine Bramsen, I do not think there is any point. But as I interpret it here, it is like a rider running for the World Championship in cycling, and where Mrs Trine Bramssen then says: In order for him to be able to ride a bike stronger, we give him a new pair of running shoes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144134	I think that remark speaks for itself. I think that we are dealing with an overly serious issue here, which should concern itself with this kind of nonsense. This is about 100 million. kr. extra for our police. They miss that money, they need that money out there right now. If this resolution is adopted, it will not just take longer than there are already kr. That is why I think it is deeply irresponsible to table such a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144206	Karsten Nonbo? No. Peter Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144215	What we have been discussing for a long time now is how to ensure that the fact that there was a terrorist attack in Copenhagen will not affect ordinary police work. Now I can hear the Social Democrats say: we are happy to discuss whether more money should be spent. I would like to hear from the Socialists whether they feel safe about all the stories we have heard about how they have not been able to get the help they needed as a citizen of the rest of the country. You expect these stories to stop now? What we can hear is that what is being given here is not enough, and I would like to hear what the Socialists' proposal is for, what we have to do to get the government to speak. We have not been able to do so until now, but by common help we might succeed. Or are the Socialists quite sure that we will not experience the stories about the fact that we cannot get the help of the police that we have read about so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144314	Now we just have to remember who has recommended that 100 million should be added. kr. extra to the police to maintain preparedness, to ensure security for the Danes. It's the police themselves! After all, we Social Democrats feel that we are listening to the recommendations of the police, and when they say that this is the sum of money to be provided, that is also why that is what is on the record. But I know that the Left would very much like to avoid what kind of proposal they have actually put forward in this Chamber and on which we will be voting shortly. If the motion for a resolution to withdraw the motion for a resolution is adopted, I would like to point out once again that there will be no extra funding for the police. That is the consequence of the motion for a resolution. And then we can have a long talk about everything that goes around, we will gladly take it, but the resolution, which we will be voting on in a moment, will remove 100 million. kr., which we will add.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144406	Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144409	However, I would like to say to Mrs Trine Bramsen. It may be a bit complicated now, but the whole idea of drawing up the resolution is that we should then negotiate the real problems that are in the police force and put forward a new piece of action where there is an appropriation that solves those problems. I know that was already a lot of words, but that is what the motion for a resolution says, and that is why it is tiring beyond the normal to listen to the melody that the Socialists stand and laugh from the platform. This is about whether or not we solve a problem, namely that the police are unable to solve ordinary police work because of the winding-up of overtime. Can the Socialists or can Mrs Trine Bramssen even relate to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144505	Well, it was an incredibly large number of words that covered the fact that the Left has tabled a motion for a resolution which removes 100 million. kr., which we want to add to the police. So that is the starting point, that is what the Left is proposing here today and which the Left is about to vote in favour of. 100 million kr. extra for the police is a lot of money, and the police miss that money out there. Let us, however, together get rid of this motion for a resolution tabled by the bourgeois, so that the money can get out to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144537	Sir. Mike Legarth for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144541	After all, it is grotesque that in the country's most important platform we should hear a government rapporteur speaking as another puppet. It is about the conservatives saying that the proposal put forward by the government is not enough. We know that policemen are not getting enough training; we know that there are not enough police officers; we know that there is a lack of equipment. We have heard this from reliable sources, and we have had it demonstrated with all due clarity, as there were no people who could be sent out to the synagogue in Krystalgade on the day that the powder keg exploded, if I may use that expression. A police officer didn't arrive until after more calls for backup and protection at 9:00. 7:00 p.m. Then came one police officer, and we saw later in the night, when a well-trained police force was needed to protect the Jews, that one person was not trained, was not trained in the equipment needed to care for. Then we say from our side that we will spend something more; we will do something more in this matter; we will add new money. And then the rapporteur speaks in the East and the West about this issue. It is because we want to strengthen the police, we want to be sure that the tasks that need to be solved can be handled by the police and that at any time there are the police officers who need to be available and that they are trained for the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144659	If you cannot defend your own proposal, you can always try to be condescending, and I hear there are more bourgeois people who want to do so today. I just have to stick to what we are voting on today. It is not whether additional money should be added beyond the 100 million. kr. The bourgeois have put forward a proposal that removes this piece, which gives the 100 million. kr. Let's just hold on to it. So that is the starting point for the vote shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144723	Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144732	No, that is not the case, and the rapporteur knows that very well. We're going to draw this piece because it's not enough. This does not mean that the situation will improve so that we can do the job. The rapporteur is consciously standing on the platform and manipulating not only with the members of the Folketing in this Chamber, but with the whole of Denmark. Well, it's basically enlightened that we don't think that the piece does the job. That's why we want to draw it. We're gonna deliver a better act. It must be one that can deliver the necessary policemen, so there is enough so that they are trained and have the training that allows them to solve the task, so that you do not fumble with a gun you are not trained in, so that the magazine does not go out when you have to shoot down a criminal, so that you are protected with bulletproof vests and other equipment, so that you are able to combat the disgusting and unpleasant terrorism that we have seen flourishing in Danish streets and straits. It can't be very difficult to understand for anyone...[Sound Outfall]. And we don't even want to help feed the dog with its own tail, knowing that it's the police's own resources that are going to be used for this effort. We're gonna add new money, so we're gonna get more cops on the streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144836	New money is exactly what we are discussing here today. That's the new money, the 100 million. kr. extra to the police, as the police themselves have pointed out they need. After all, these are the people whom the bourgeois people have proposed to draw, and that is what we will be voting on shortly. We're gonna vote on whether to subtract these new 100 million. kr. To the police. Let us stick to it, because that is how the people's regime works: when you make a proposal, that is what is being voted on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144905	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144910	I find it awkward that Trine Bramsen is using her speaking time on the platform today to scrape the surface and not go into depth in answering the questions that my colleagues are actually asking. The fact is that Claus Oxfeldt, the President of the Police Union, has told us that there have been 500 fewer officers under this government. The point is that my colleague Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says that when we want to draw the record, it's not because we don't want to give the police money. We just think that 100 million. kr. It's not enough. Couldn't Trine Bramsen do us the favour of recognising the debate collectively instead of categorically repeating the same message: that the Left will spend less money on the police? That's not what we want. We are precisely challenging the view that the file contains sufficient resources. We disagree with that, and is it not a fair political disagreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421144958	Well, it is quite true that there is a debate about police resources, and that is also why we, together with the Left, have concluded a multi-year agreement for the police. And that is quite correct, as Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt points out that the government, together with the Left, has been behind an agreement that ensures a small reduction in the number of officers. But that does not change the fact that we have to stick to what we are about to vote on. We can easily have a discussion about police resources beyond the 100 million. We shall vote on a proposal in which the citizens want to draw the 100 million. We Social Democrats simply disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145040	Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145042	Yes, it is not because the answer that Mrs Trine Bramsen gave me here was very different from the answer she just gave to my colleagues. And I really think it is a pity that the internal rhetorical courses of the Social Democrats are so convincing that one simply becomes completely paralyzed rhetorical when one ends up in this Chamber. What I am asking is: does the rapporteur recognise that it is a legitimate political disagreement that the Left and the other authors of the motion do not believe that 100 million? kr. is sufficient to meet the challenges that our police are reporting at the moment? The fact is that around the country's police stations there are reports of massive reprocessing of overtime. In some places you simply meet a sign saying: the police cannot help you today, because there are no people at work. In this situation, the Left does not believe that the 100 million. kr. is sufficient, and that is precisely the motivation for our proposal. The honest political disagreement owes it to the rapporteur to acknowledge. The second is too easy, the second is simply not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145135	I'll repeat, then, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt understands the message that we Social Democrats are happy to discuss how we strengthen our police in the future. This was also the reason why we would have liked to have seen a start on the new negotiations on police resources over the next four years. The Left did not want to be a part of this. But what the Left is trying to do right now is to talk about it in good old-fashioned Danish. Because we have to stick to what we are voting on. And it is fair enough that the Left would like to add more money to the police than the 100 million. kr., but why does the Left propose to draw the 100 million? kr. To the police? I do not understand that, and I think it is irresponsible to our Danish police.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145220	Mrs Jane Heitmann for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145223	Thank you. Having sat and followed the debate here, I am in fact a little in doubt whether the rapporteur has read the text that follows the resolution at all, so I would now like to quote the first two lines. It says: "The proposers are prepared to support an increased appropriation for the police to finance the increased terrorist preparedness. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145247	Yes, it is true that it is in the proposal, but it does not change the fact that if this proposal is adopted, the police will not get their 100 million. kr., which will be adopted with the file shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145257	Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145300	What is actually being said here, and what the rapporteur has also confirmed, by reading the text, is that the Left would point out that we are far more ambitious in this area than the government is. Finally, can the rapporteur also confirm that 500 fewer officers have arrived under the current government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145318	It is true that we have entered into an agreement with the Left to reduce the number of officers, but it is in close cooperation with the Left. What I think is absolutely unambitious is that the Left is delaying the adoption of the 100 million. kr. to be given to the police here and now and for which there is a majority. This is what is happening with the proposal put forward by the Left that the police cannot be paid out the money that is going to work here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145343	Does Karsten Lauritzen wish to speak as rapporteur? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421145401	Thank you. I have to say that I think this is a very strange argument put forward by the Socialist rapporteur and by the government in this matter. It is such an argument that if you discuss what the government is putting forward, you delay things. With the same argument, I could say that what Mrs Trine Bramsen has just said from the Parliament's platform is the debate we have spent 25 minutes behind the police's efforts to make a terrorist guard or the task of financing that terrorist guard. Quite frankly, I think that I would be irresponsible to say this, and frankly I also think that we can ask for a little more serious treatment in this Chamber. Because if you read the motion for a resolution tabled by a single bourgeois bloc and which we are discussing here today, you can see that it is a matter of withdrawing an act. That is absolutely right. But it sounds like it follows and now I would like to read out, because there are some who seem to have not read the proposal or do not want to understand what the words mean: the Danish Parliament instructs the Minister of Justice to withdraw from the Finance Committee document 108 on reinforced action against terrorism and to present an overall plan for financing the fight against terrorism, which ensures that the increased preparedness for terrorism since the Copenhagen terrorist attack does not affect the police's ordinary crime-fighting efforts, in particular the civil and perilous crime. If you then go down in the remarks, and it may be a good idea, before you look at a proposal, not only to read the text of the proposal, but also the comments, you can see that it says here, as was correctly read earlier by Mrs Jane Heitmann: the authors of the proposals are prepared to support an increased willingness of the police to finance the increased terrorist preparedness. I can, of course, continue to read, but what is the message, and what we have wanted in the Left and, incidentally, in the other bourgeois parties, is to ensure that the police have the necessary resources not only to carry out the task of protecting Denmark from terrorism, but also, at the same time, to ensure that when people have had a break-in, the police come, and when innocent people are attacked on street and road in public space, the police have the resources to investigate and solve it. That means, of course, that if you have the political point of view that we have in the Left at least, then you must provide the police with the necessary resources to ensure that the increased preparedness for terrorism does not affect the general fight against crime. That is a clear political point of view. That is the political point of view that the Socialist rapporteur from the floor of this Parliament has said is deeply irresponsible, and I repeat: deeply irresponsible. I have to say that I think Mrs Trine Bramsen should be ashamed of her claim that a completely legitimate political debate on how much money the police should have is a deeply irresponsible debate and that this motion for a resolution on an act that we are discussing here today is deeply irresponsible. I certainly do not think so. This is a completely legitimate political debate, and there is then a clear political difference between what the Ministry of Justice and the Government and the Minister for Justice think is necessary for the police to be provided with additional resources and what we think. It is believed that you can carry out the task of the action in which you add 130 million to the police. kr. kr. comes from the savings of the police, so 80 million. kr. in new money. You think you can do that with this new assignment. It is fair to have the political point of view; we in the Left just disagree. We would have liked to have seen us add additional resources to the police. This is also due to the fact that the police union has been out saying that the terrorist plan put forward by the government is irresponsible. You can read this in Jyllands-Posten on 10 March this year. There says Claus Oxfeldt, chairman of the Police Union, for example.: We have been very nice and quiet: but now I think you tighten the screw. We can see what it looks like with the Danish police right now. People run their noses and find it difficult to settle their holidays before 1 May. Since 1 January 2011, there have been 550 fewer officers in Denmark, he says, who had originally understood the government so that money should follow the terrorist act that was presented in February. The article continues: "The first announcements were that the package of one billion should be found for. Half of it was for the defense intelligence service, and the rest were for the PET and the police. But now you're talking about God help me... sorry about the language... that it just has to be included in a new multi-year agreement. I actually think that's irresponsible, says Oxfeldt. It is, after all, because there are reports from the police union, the police union, that we are some bourgeois parties that want to raise a case-by-case debate about whether we are now undertaking the task we need to do in order to keep the police free from the costs of the terrorist attack and to ensure that the police can move to burglary and other crime, while at the same time making the increased guarding of terrorism. The fact that the government is not involved in anything other than what is in the file is sad, and that is why we also said on Friday when we discussed this, that if that is all the government wants, we will of course vote in favour. Some people criticized that too, and I think the government should perhaps decide whether to criticise us when we vote in favour or when we vote against it. It is perfectly legitimate to have the views and the political conflict that we have, and that remains, namely that the government believes that you can pick up parts of the bill and eat off Danish police with 80 million. kr. in new money, and then all is joy and old. The truth is quite different. We are going to see a 2015 where Danish police will not have as good clearing rates as we have seen in the past, and where we will see that you cannot move out to ordinary civilian crime because the increased guarding of the terrorist attack draws on Danish police. It's very natural. That is also what the Minister of Justice admitted when we had the treatment on Friday. That is why it was good that we had that discussion in Parliament. It is the rule of the people, it is democracy. That then we can't agree and the government will eat off the police with 80 million. kr. And we in the bourgeois bloc believe that more is needed is a political disagreement, and that is the way it is. I now hope that it is clear to everyone that that is the content of the dossier. And if you want to know more, you're welcome to read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150035	Mrs Astrid Krag for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150037	Hang on, how many words from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, just as we have heard so many words from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen's party colleagues, who were not here for the debate on Friday. I just have to ask Karsten Lauritzen to confirm two things: firstly, that if you vote for the Blue Block resolution now, it is 100 million. kr. which is not being sent to the police here and now; and secondly, that the minister said very clearly from the platform that the future financing of the police should be discussed in the autumn. What the Left is saying is that you do not want to give the money to the police because you want to discuss the long-term. The minister said very clearly and I think the rapporteur of the Left knew that those negotiations were in the autumn. Can the rapporteur of the Left, without too long a speech, confirm that the two things are correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150123	It is true that if you do not vote for the act, the police will not get the new 80 million. kr., which the government is laying up for. That's right. But it is important, and it is important, and perhaps that is where I think Mrs Trine Bramsen is not so serious in her way of arguing about what we bourgeois wants is to draw the record today, but tomorrow, if the government wishes to do so, to put forward and adopt an act giving the police more than what the government is proposing. In other words, there is no one I have not heard anyone say this here in Parliament saying that the police should not have the extra 80 million. kr. On the contrary, there are some who say: we want to give the police more than the 80 million. kr. That is the political debate, and that is what we must be honest about. But, of course, it is true that the police only get the money when you adopt the file. That is absolutely right. But what we want is to give more money than the government is proposing. The fact that the government does not want to do so is, after all, a political disagreement like so many others.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150220	Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150222	So the Left has an incredibly bad case here, and perhaps that is why, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen was alone in the Chamber when we discussed Friday and it is only today that the cavalry has come to support him. You slow down a process that is extremely important. You want to remove some money that is going to work now, and then you try to cover yourself under the fact that the government will not take the discussion that lies ahead of us when there are negotiations on a new multi-year agreement for the police in the autumn. Honestly, it's ridiculous on a whole new level. I just wanted to say thank you to Mr. Simpson. Karsten Lauritzen, because he confirmed that we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, the Blue Blocks, then it is 100 million. kr. Then I hope, by the way, that the Left intends to come up and take up the long-term negotiations on the police. Now it can be exciting to see how much money you can bring when you have to make it add to zero growth and the other things you want to finance. However, that discussion should be able to take away the money that has to be deposed here and now. The fact that this link is being made does not seem to me to be anything other than an expression of the fact that we have a really bad case with the motion for a resolution here. And thank you for voting for the act in the end. That only makes the whole manoeuvre even more confusing and embarrassing for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150329	I really don't think I'm gonna do anything but read this quote from the chairman of the Police Union, who is one of those who has the finger on the pulse of the police, and who says in Jyllands-Posten about the government's terrorist plan under the heading "Terror Plan" is rogue: "The first reports went on that package of a billion. You should find the money for it. Half of it was for the defense intelligence service, and the rest were for the PET and the police. But now you're talking to God help me that it just has to be included in a new multi-year agreement. Actually, it's ridiculous, uh... That is why we choose to problematize the government's approach. In fact, I think that is quite serious, and I think there are many policemen who would be grateful to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150406	Mrs Trine Bramsen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150409	The Left recognizes that it is the police's leadership that estimates that it is 100 million. kr. extra, to maintain a terrorist preparedness and to strengthen security throughout Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150425	I consider that the National Police Commissioner has been asked what he thinks, and that is fair enough, we are also listening to the National Police Commissioner. It is, of course, the case that, in relation to the way in which the police operate, we have admitted that when violent events occur, such as the one in the United Kingdom, we have not yet had the courage to do so. a terrorist attack, then we must be able to re-prioritize, and then we will suffer the other fight against crime. That is the system we have built up, and that is the system for which the National Police Commissioner is responsible. But that does not change the fact that, as a political party, one can well mean something other than the head of the national police force. I certainly hope that Mrs Trine Bramsen does that once in a while. It is not the National Police Commissioner who sits in the Folketing and decides which legal policy should be pursued, it is the Folketing and among other things. Mrs. Trine Bramsen. And that is where we in the Left have the clear view that, in relation to this situation, we want to free the police from the costs of guarding after the terrorist attack, so that the increased cost of guarding does not affect other police work. That the National Police Commissioner does not mean that, I understand, because he does not have a mandate to do so, but it is a political position that can be taken, and we therefore have it in the Left, but unfortunately it is not in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150528	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150529	So that means that the Left does not recognise the attitude of the National Police on how much money it takes. But then I would like to ask something else: does the Left recognise that the 100 million are needed here and now? kr. that there's a need for that money here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150546	I think that more than 100 million people are needed, that is what we are discussing and then we can discuss what it should be. But there's a big bill for the police as a result of this terrorist attack. There are policemen who have worked day in and day out to carry out guarding duties and who also want to fight other crime. There we in the Left have said that we should pick up that bill, and there the government has said that only part of the bill will be picked up; that is the political disagreement, and I recognise that disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150614	Mrs Pernille Skipper, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150617	In other words, immediately we are about to vote on a motion for a resolution which the Left intends to vote in favour of, I think, and which requires the government to withdraw an act which the Left also intends to vote in favour of. Quite frankly, I have to say that, as one of the parties that has not been in the negotiating room, we in the Enhedslist are probably a little confused about what the Left is actually calling on us to support and vote in favour. But it may be, sir. Karsten Lauritzen can solve it. I'd just like to ask you quite specifically, now that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says that this is about the Left wanting to give more money to the police: why has the Left not tabled a resolution to give more money to the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150705	I think the government is grateful for Enhedslisten's help in this case. Of course, we could have adopted the approach of tabling a motion for a resolution, but we would actually rather have it adopted jointly here. That is why we are surprised that the government has chosen to suspend the negotiations we had where we were about to find each other. Of course, some funding had to be found, and the government in the field of defence has chosen to finance it with the money which, according to the terrorist plan, was to go to the Defence Intelligence Service; we have agreed to that. That's over 400 million. kr. There was another approach adopted by the Minister for Justice, namely to suspend the negotiations, which went quite well; we had to solve a financing problem and put an action in the Chamber. The fact that we then want to pursue a political desire to give more money than the one contained in the document contains a wish that we, in fact, made during the negotiations, I do not think there is anything unusual in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150758	Sir. Jesper Petersen, brief remark. No! Well, Pernille Skipper, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150807	Thank you. Sorry, I forgot to push in. I still don't get it. If you want more money for the police, why not put forward a motion for a resolution on this rather than a motion for a resolution that they should not have any money? Well, I don't understand. Karsten Lauritzen, however, quoted a little earlier as arguing that more money was needed, the chairman of the Police Union, that is, the union of the police officers. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen listens more to the union than to the police leadership in this case. I would just like to know whether this is something that we intend to continue to say on the part of the Left: that the union has more legitimacy behind statements about the economy than the management of a specific authority has. Because that would be interesting, for example. is about to discuss whether there are enough SOSU assistants and hands in our nursing homes, for example, or whether we might need to hire a little more in the welfare sector. Or is it only in this particular area that the union knows more than management itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150910	Well, we in the Left are listening to both the National Police Commissioner and the Police Union, the union. I also believe that, as a politician, it can of course be sensible to listen to the government officials, but also sometimes to talk to others, because there are, of course, also some agendas. The National Police Commissioner is bound by the task, and if the government does not want to add any more funds, it is difficult for him to demand it. That would put him in a conflict of interest with his chief chief, who is the Minister of Justice. That's why I think it would be weird. It is fairly utopian to imagine that the National Police Commissioner should go out and say that 100 million. kr., as the government suggests, is not enough at all, we need 150 million. kr. or 300 million kr. We listen to both the trade union and the management of the relevant authorities, and then we find what we think is sensible, and in this case it is doing more than what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150952	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421150954	Like Mrs Pernille Skipper, I think it is a rather advanced argument when you say that you want to stop the government from spending 100 million. In other words, what you really ask the Danish Parliament to vote in favour is not to spend any money, and then you stand up and argue for it by saying that it is because you think the police should have some more money, so you could have just voted for it. It's been 7 weeks, if it's not 8:00 a.m., that the government put forward a proposal to strengthen the terror alert. That money could have gone out to work now, but they are not, because the Left has delayed this matter, only during the negotiations, since the Finance Committee and now here in the Parliamentary Chamber. And you have every right to do that, but it is the Left who is making that money not now and here working. What I just wanted to ask, sir. Karsten Lauritzen to confirm here at the end, as we are talking about funding and about spending more on the police, is that it is true that the reserve that the government can pick up this extra 100 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not on the Left's draft budget because it has been included in the budget to provide tax relief. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151107	In other words, if I am to be quite honest and if we are to have a serious debate, I would say that I can stand by and wonder if, if we had had a civil government instead of the current government, which I think would have been sensible, we would have presented the same funding or found another one. In the same way, we can also have a long debate that Mr. Jesper Petersen and the government parties cut down on dental fees to finance prison places. Nor do I know whether it would have been the same funding that a bourgeois government had put forward. It may have been, but it may not have. However, I can say quite clearly that we in the Left have a wish and that is a wish which I honestly believe we would also have pursued if we had sat in the government to make sure that this bill was lifted from the police so that the cost of this terrorist attack and the increased guarding does not go beyond other police work. It is therefore sad that we cannot carry out this task together. There is then a political disagreement and I simply do not understand why the government does not just recognise the political disagreement rather than keep pretending it is not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151210	Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151211	What we disagree on, and what we are voting on, is whether you need 100 million. kr. extra from an additional appropriation contained in the Government's draft budget, or not. I simply think that it is deeply, deeply irresponsible of Mr. Karsten Lauritzen to stand up and talk about how much more money needs to be spent on something for which no shadow of funding has been presented. No funding has been provided. It's sir. Karsten Lauritzen's party, which daily thunders against growth in the public sector. May I remind you that the police are part of the public sector. You don't want to spend another penny on it, because it can't grow with as much as a penny. That must also apply to the police. And if, for a rare time, we can get the Left to report something about what you really want, and the Left to table a financial bill in the autumn, then we can see that there is no additional reserve, there is no money for unforeseen expenditure and therefore would not have been able to finance what the government is doing here if you were in government. So keep talking, but you got a bad case. You want us to withdraw the funding of the police and do not have the shadow of an opportunity to finance what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151314	Thank you. It seems that the Socialists have put forward a strategy that, if they say that the Left has a bad case, it will also be a bad case. And I can say that this is an argument we have also tried to use with the government, but it does not always help, because if the government does not have a bad case, it does not turn into a bad case. If you have a good case, it is a good case, and it is a good thing to have the legitimate political view that we want to give the police more funds than the government is proposing here. And we're financing it, too. In our financial bill we have set 250 million. kr. to more money for the police. Then I have to acknowledge that the financial bill came before the terrorist act came in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151354	Sir. Jeppe Bruus for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151357	Thank you. Now the rapporteur of the Left is beginning to talk about picking up the bill. We have a bit of mixed experience with the bills that the Left picks up, but let me now ask: if we turn around and then we vote together for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left and the other bourgeois, and thus withdraw the government's act, what is the position of the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151421	But if negotiations were to take place, as we are proposing, it would be better for the police, because if we were to get the government to participate in the funding, we would be able to agree to make a new act. There can of course be dispensation from deadlines and everything else, if we agree on it, and then we could adopt the act tomorrow if that was the case, or another day when the Folketing is assembled. So that's it, sir. Jeppe Bruus proposes, I think is an excellent idea, and we would very much like to take part in that. The only problem is that the government doesn't want to. You only want to give it to the police, who are in the record, and not a bent 25-ear more, and that is unfortunately not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151459	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151501	Thank you. That sounded like a lot of ifs. Is the problem for the Left and the other bourgeois not that with this proposal you would be putting the police at a disadvantage if it were to go through and that there would be no new money to give to the police to remedy the hump that has been in connection with overtime etc. in connection with the terrorist attack. That's the challenge. Then you come with all those whispering and snitch talk. The fact is that you are now on the way to supporting a resolution that we cannot add new money to the police. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151535	It is true that if we vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, the file will be withdrawn and a new one will have to be put forward, but that is what will be natural. That is what we want, and that is what the motion for a resolution says, namely that the government must call for negotiations with a view to picking up the whole bill. So I actually think the police will be happy about it. As I understand from the President of the Police Union, he is certainly not satisfied with the bill that the government is picking up, and I think there is reason to listen a little to the President of the Police Union in this context. We do that in the bourgeois bloc. That is not what the government wants to do to a large extent. It is a political disagreement, so let us stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151612	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151615	I would like to hear what the Left itself has calculated there is a need for the police to be given extra. The Left must have thought about that, now that an extra 150 million is being drawn. kr. In the fight because 250 million have been set aside. kr. of its draft financial regulation. So how much is it that the Left thinks is needed and what is the concrete thing that needs to be covered?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151642	Thank you. I am actually very happy about that question, because if you read the answer to Question 1 to Act 108, you can see that we have asked what the total extra costs are, but you do not really get them. We are told that there is currently an amount of 60.5 million. kr. for the period from 14 February to 27 March, the bill is now somewhat larger, but then you write, and that's what needs to be read inside: Similarly, costs for the part of Copenhagen's normal staffing which has been used and continues to be used for the follow-up of the shootings 14 and 15 February. It's a lot of cops. I have heard a figure that goes on a few hundred, and there we have to get figured out: if the tasks they would otherwise have solved by solving break-ins, solving violence, preventing crime, going to guard, how do we solve those tasks, and how does it cost? So the government hasn't answered that question in the answer to this question. When the answer comes, I would like to help pick up that bill and I am sure that the other bourgeois parties are of the same opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151745	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151753	So the Left does not have a clear answer as to how much is needed in the police. So it certainly makes it much, much harder to get an extra sum set aside. Can the Left not confirm that the Minister for Justice has actually said that if there is a need for additional initiatives when the new statement comes, in other words the statement after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, then there will be a second round where more money can be allocated. So what's the big problem? I simply do not understand that. Why refuse to give the money that is needed right now when we have actually been promised that we will also be discussing more initiatives and more money if necessary? None of us yet knows what that statement will point to. None of us yet know where the bill for increased preparedness ends. Nobody has any figures for that at this time, so is it not very wise to wait and then allocate the money that we actually know is needed at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151853	What Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says is very sensible, and if only the Minister for Justice had said and written it in the record, I think we would have been different. However, the government has at least very clearly signalled to us, including in the negotiations, that it is now negotiating a terrorist package and that that is what the government is proposing. Then you would not rule out the possibility that at some point, when there are two Thursdays for a week, you would like to give the police more money. These are the signals we have received, and I would have liked the Minister to have said the same thing as the questioner is now saying, but the Minister has not said so, and that is not what the record says. If you want to add more funds to the police than what the file is up to, now is the time to strike. We have tried to do so, but the government will not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151932	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421151934	Thank you. Now the rapporteur has said on several occasions from the platform that the Left would be ready for today, does the Left Legal Rapporteur think that it is serious? In a situation where Denmark has been subjected to a terrorist attack, where they are still examining the background to it, and where all parties are prepared that this will, of course, have consequences for what we are going to add to our police force, is it the policy of the Left that, in order to be beautiful on a platform, a new piece of action will be presented tomorrow? Is that the Left's approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152028	I really think that the rapporteur is hitting his own government a little, and I do not know whether it is well thought out. For shortly after the terrorist attack, the government launched this plan called "A strong guard against terror - 12 new measures against terrorism" and read on the back that you want to add funds to a new terrorist plan a few days later. So, in the arms race, which is about what we have to do to show that we can keep the Danes safe, you put forward plans that have not been worked through; it is, of course, a strategy that the government has chosen. We in the Left have chosen to problematize the approach and ask: should we not just sit together around the table and find out how we finance this? And that's what we've been trying to do with the government, but then we get kicked out of some negotiations. The government then puts an act down here, where we choose to say that we want to give more money, and then you get angry about it in the government, so that we choose not just to say yes and amen and vote in favour, but to put forward our policy, which is that we have to pick up all and not parts of the bill. And when we do, we are also being criticized by the government. I think that is a pity, but politics is the same from time to time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152136	Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152138	What is so hollow in this matter is that the rapporteur of the Left keeps saying that, in this way, we end up voting in favour of the report. So let me use my last speaking time here to make a call: I would be grateful for a thank you from the platform to the SF and Enhedslisten, which will end up with the government to enable the Left to vote in favour of the act in the Finance Committee when the meeting in this Chamber is over. Could we not get that statement from the Left Legal Rapporteur? For that is the truth: if there were a majority in favour of what the Left itself proposes, it would not be possible to ensure that the 100 million. kr. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152221	You could put it that way. I think that if you ask, for example... The police union and also private police officers, if they would rather have a small amount of money now or a larger amount of money at a later stage, they would probably choose to take the larger amount of money. I think most people would, even if you had to wait a tiny bit for it. After all, it is not the case that tomorrow, in a week or in a month's time, we are going to be deciding whether the police can raise the level of terrorist preparedness that they have. However, it will be crucial for the police to be able to carry out ordinary police duties at the end of the year, such as burglar crime and other citizens' crimes, and that is the political disagreement we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152301	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152306	A small sum of money now and a larger amount of money later on are the two things mutually exclusive?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152315	No, they don't do that. It's right, but as I said, it's been my clear opinion, and it's not an opinion, I think I'm alone, that this is the moment the government is going to make a terrorist plan. That is why we have put forward this proposal with 12 new measures to combat terrorism, where some money is dropped, and it does not say in this, as far as I can read, anywhere that we are later prepared to give more money to the police if the present does not prove to be enough. I can't find it, and I can't find it in the record either. So, sir... Henning Hyllested has said well, but I think we are going to find ourselves in a situation where it is now that more money is being given to the police, and now is the time to try to increase that amount, and that is what we wanted in the bourgeois bloc. The Enhedslisten will not be a part of that, and it doesn't surprise me very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152356	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152400	A bird in the hand is better than ten on the roof, isn't it? The 100 million. kr. You do. Then you have to fight for the last, if you want more. Is that not the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152413	Yes, but that is also why, now that we have found out that the government wants nothing but what lies here, that we choose to say that we agree to that. Our strategy, you might say, is somewhere along the way, sir. Henning Hyllested says, and I think that it will prove very difficult to get the government to give more money to the police, and therefore I think that we will be in a situation towards the end of the year on the other side of a parliamentary election where, if the current government is allowed to continue, you will see about this approach to it, that the bill that lies in the police is not being picked up completely, and it will go beyond quite ordinary police work, and that is just a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152452	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is another speaker in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152507	What gets me on the platform is the government's rapporteur who has attempted an election campaign here by describing that the blue bloc is not going to do anything about the terrorist act that has taken place. So let me outline the situation. The proposal that has come up with this terrorist package by the government has, after all, come from the terrorist act in February at the Krudtønden and later in Krystalgade at the synagogue. Unfortunately, the claim we have been making in the Conservative People's Party has been documented there for several years, namely that there are not enough resources in the police to do the job, as we would have liked it to be done. We do not believe that there are policemen enough to carry out adequate patrols on the streets and straits, while at the same time solving the tasks of transport trips, guardings, including in courtrooms, solving the crimes that are there, etc. and so on, which is why we have already set aside an extra 500 million in our own financial legislation last year. kr. To the police. We saw at the terrorist act, where the police were pressured to the utmost, that there was a lack of policemen. Why can I say this for sure? Well, I can, because after the incident at Krudtønden, the Jews in Krystalgade at the synagogue, where there was a celebration, called for protection, but you couldn't get any. There wasn't a police officer until 2:00 a.m. 19.00 in the evening after numerous reminders for protection. Later another one came. Unfortunately, in the assassination around midnight, one of the policemen who had been sent out, according to the reports, did not have the training necessary to deal with the weapon with which he was equipped, and there were errors in the weapon, and the terrorist was not combated, as could have been done. So there is no doubt that we do not have the number of police officers at our disposal that we would like to have, not just in an acute terrorist situation, but also in the general fight against burglary. We see in many places that the police do not even go out to regular break-ins, and that is not satisfactory for legal certainty. We can also see that there is a lack of training and training, and that is why we will invest in it, and we will also equip the policemen with better equipment so that they are better prepared to be able to solve a new emergency task if it comes and must the gods forbid it. But we have seen that we need more policemen when we talk about organized international crime; when we talk about gangs; when we talk about terrorist acts; and we have seen lately that the police are so underturned, in line with the duties imposed, that the investigation is not being carried out, so that the prisons are filled up as usual. This is a clear example of the fact that there are not enough policemen to expose criminals, as they should do, and as we should have enough policemen to do. That is why we believe that we must immediately add an extra 500 million to the police force. kr., so that we can correct the imbalance and improve the legal situation. It is a fact that I have said that everything, too many police officers are being used for guarding in courtrooms, for transporting defendants to and from police circles to interrogation points, for football matches, for various demonstrations and, above all, so much overtime is being saved that there is simply not enough policemen available on the streets and that we can have the legal certainty we would like to have. That is why we think this piece is too little, that it is insufficient and that it is not enough to solve the urgent task before us, and that is why we have asked for it to be withdrawn, and we are ready to write a check for the extra 500 million tomorrow or today. kr., give them to the police so that we can solve these tasks so that we can get the desired legal status worked up, and so that we have the preparedness, that is to say, that if a new disaster situation arises, a new terrorist act, we have policemen ready to move out with the right competence and training and with the right equipment to fight down and destroy such people. These were the words of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152917	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421152931	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 46 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 52 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153011	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153033	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153058	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153125	Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153211	I promise I'll be brief. I would like to draw the attention of the House to the strangeness that arose during the work of the committee, since the Enhedslisten had asked for a hearing on this construction law and the establishment of this huge infrastructure plant, which is a new plant of 64 billion. kr., as it has risen to. However, it was rejected by the other parties, and I think this is a little strange, because accurate consultation is a tool in our democratic toolbox, which we use in committee after all. But it was rejected in this situation because the conciliation circle, in which Enhedslisten does not participate, has heard enough. No more talking, now it's time to act! I think that is how it is on the brink of democratic concern when you start to majorise in this way. The fact is that there was a great need for consultation. The calculations, both the traffic calculations and, above all, the calculations of the economy, have been seriously called into question by the project, and at least we can now see that the plant price has risen by around 22 per cent, i.e. by just under 10 billion. kr. That is why the report will also see that a so-called robust report contribution has been made, as the conciliation circle called it, which means that the construction law, which we will otherwise adopt at third reading in no time, will not be put into effect until the price has been fixed. And it will not be fixed until negotiations have been concluded with the contractors, and this is expected to be completed in September. But there has been no mention of a pain limit as to how much the price can increase. Now it has risen by about 22 per cent, and it might be interesting to know whether an increase of only 20 per cent in goose eyes. was enough for the conciliation parties, or whether we should go down to 15%. 10%. We do not know anything about this, and that is why one can also suspect that the most important thing is to put smokescreen beyond the problem that has arisen, in that the calculations on the project were revealed as being completely out in the fence and not appropriate with anything at all. Of course, everyone has realized this, and that is also true of the conciliation parties, and that problem should then be resolved by putting out smokescreens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153452	Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153501	No amendments have been tabled to draft law No. L 141. The vote will then be taken on Bill No. L 142. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1, to be elected by a majority of the Committee (except EL)? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153532	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153553	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without further referral to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153608	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153626	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 2 and 3 adopted by the Committee, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance, on Amendment No 2. 4-10, member of the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153650	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153709	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF and EL), joined by a minority (LA) that the bill is divided into two. And it is now being voted on whether it should be shared. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 22 votes (EL, SF and LA), against 80 votes (S, V, DF, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, elected by a majority (V, S, DF, RV and KF)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (DF) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 35 (DF, EL, SF and LA), against 67 (S, V, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4-6, elected by a majority (V, S, DF, RV and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153858	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153920	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153941	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421153953	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154010	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154030	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154045	The debate is open. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154127	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here today comes as a result of the government, the Left and the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party shortly before Christmas 2014 concluded two agreements on changes to the Game Act. Some practical adjustments have been made in the context of a brief evaluation of the gambling settlement that led to the game liberalisation in 2012. This concerns, among other things: on a settlement period that will be more easy to manage, as well as various other things, including banning gambling halls from being open between 8 a.m. 12:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. 07:00. In addition, I believe that there are a number of positive elements in the draft law here. One might say that there have been a few unfortunate examples of there having been a great deal of fraud and also a great deal of undeclared work among the gaming halls which have had the opportunity to distribute part of their profits for charitable purposes. We have a common interest in putting an end to this, and I think that during the negotiating period we had, we found a fine solution for the next few years for how to stem this. Of course, it's not an easy exercise to do, but I thought we made a good deal. In addition, there was also the element that I mentioned and that the government stood firm on, namely that gambling halls must be forced to keep closed at night. One can say that it was not something that had just grown in the left's garden, and it was also something that we tried to fight out of the course of negotiations we had, but it is in a negotiation process that we must give and take, and it also became part of the agreement that we made shortly before Christmas 2014. We can support the bill as it stands, but I would also like to mention that we have a challenge with the lottery in Denmark. If you look at how things have gone since we liberalised the gambling market, or at least part of the gambling market, you can see that Danish lotteries' turnover and results have greatly deteriorated and are also in a development that means that there is less and less money to distribute to the profit recipients, and that calls for political action. The law complex that gave effect to the gambling law in 2012 stated that it should be evaluated in 2014. That's what the law said, but the government has chosen not to do that. I find that very regrettable. We then fought into the text of the agreement that we adopted before Christmas, that it should be evaluated in 2015, and I am also glad that we got written in, that we need to explore the possibilities of liberalising both bingo games and horse racing. This is, of course, something that also comes as a desire of the players themselves in the industry. We will have a great deal of work in the autumn, no matter how the elections may go, to correct the gambling legislation and learn from the experience we have gained, but until then this will have to be a brief adjustment to what I also believe to be a positive contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154525	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag. Someone certainly forgot to press the question. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154544	I can tell you that I was pushed in, so there's gotta be a malfunction in the system. I should like to hear something from the rapporteur of the Left. For years now, we have been drawing a rope to abolish the closing law in the area of shops. The Left has also participated in this, and the Liberal Alliance has supported it in the somewhat shorter lifespan of the party. Why is it now an advantage to introduce a new closing law for gambling?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154610	This is certainly not an advantage and I also think I made a little of it in my rapporteur's speech. When you sit in a political debate and want to take responsibility, there is something that weighs on, and something else that weighs against, and then you have to see what you can agree on. That is how a political process works, and that is why we have a legal complex today that reflects the agreement we reached shortly before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154635	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154637	After all, it is fortunate that all the liberalisations that there were were were in favour of by the government. So you could just let the government put them forward and then vote for them in the Assembly. After all, it was not a precondition for the adoption of the proposals that the Left should also enter into agreements to introduce a closing law, which the Left is allegedly opposed to. So why do you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154656	That is what is called a settlement, and it creates a certain degree of reliability, not only for us here at Christiansborg, but also for all those who depend on what happens as a result of a parliamentary election. And there are incredibly many voluntary associations out there who benefit from getting part of the profits from the lottery revenues. And I think it's true that we take it on our shoulders and make a broad deal about it, so they have confidence in 2015, 2016 and 2017, how their economy looks. That is why we choose to take responsibility for such a debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154739	Thank you. I do not think there are any more brief comments, and then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, on behalf of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421154746	Thank you. This time I was allowed to climb the platform, as the President said I should. That's nice. When, as we do in Denmark, you allow casinos, poker competitions etc., you have to do it in a responsible way. It is important that we pay attention to the way in which we can do it responsibly. For gambling and gambling is a hobby that can take over and develop into gambling and a real disease. That is why we must ensure that the area is properly regulated and we must adapt the legislation on an ongoing basis where it is needed. The last change in gambling legislation was in 2012. At that time, we liberalised the legislation on betting and online casinos so that all gambling providers can offer games in Denmark and in Greenland if they meet a number of requirements. Since then, we have had a number of experiences about how the legislation works in practice, and the experience and negotiations before Christmas have led to the legislative proposal that we have to deal with now. There are many, many minor adjustments to the various legislations regulating the gambling market, and I shall not go into them all here. But the bill includes, among other things. a call for night closing of gaming halls from 1 p.m. 24:00 till 12:00. 07.00, as was just discussed on the platform a moment ago. This is an injunction that we are imposing, following the recommendation of the places of treatment for gambling addiction, which, of course, has many inquiries, also many serious inquiries, where it has had very high costs for the people affected by gambling. They point out that it is important both for the gambling players who are, but also for those who are at risk of developing a real gambling addiction, that there is a free space away from the slots. As a side benefit, it will also reduce the amount of undeclared work and illegal work in the gaming halls, as spot checks show that it most often takes place at night. Another element of the legislation is that we are abolishing the possibility that a gambling hall may receive a reduction in the fees they have to pay for the distribution of funds if the funds go for charitable purposes. There has been a great deal of cheating about the scheme, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, and many of the money has ended up in the wrong pockets away from the association life and the charitable purposes they should have actually gone to. That is why we are abolishing the opportunity that has been pursued by extensive cheating. Instead, we will ensure that the non-profit-making associations have access to the money by other means. The pack will in future be administered by SKAT. The money will be paid out to the associations that also received money from gambling halls in 2014. It is a temporary scheme to be evaluated as early as 2016, and for us Socialists, like many of the other parties around the table, it was important to ensure that the money actually goes to the community and the community, and we have committed ourselves to follow very closely that this will also be the case with the new model. Many other things, as I said, are being adjusted with the bill here. I'm not going to go into the details. One example is that the bill gives the tax minister a better opportunity to fight match fixing. Another is that we are changing the fees that the big and small companies have to pay, so that we can have better competition between small and large betting providers and online casinos. Overall, this is about adjusting our gambling legislation so that we can also continue to have frameworks that are responsible and where we do what we can to prevent players from developing gambling addiction with great personal consequences for themselves and their families. We will not tolerate the fact that money that should have gone to the community is stabbed in its own pockets around, and the Danish society's life is being cheated. That is why we believe that it is a very positive legislative proposal that is now in place. We were pleased with the negotiations in the autumn and look forward to the legislative proposal becoming a reality and, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155136	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155139	Any abuse can be made more difficult by banning it. One could imagine that there would be less alcohol abuse in Denmark if bodegas and coffers were ordered to close at 1 p.m. 24:00. But we don't do it because there are people who want to go to the bar after 8:00. 24.00, which does not have alcohol abuse, and they do not deserve to be saddled with a closing law simply to save those who cannot manage alcohol consumption. Then we must do something else for them. In this case, it has been decided to exclude everyone from playing at a venue after 8:00. 24.00, because some have problems with that they play too much. Should we have forced closure of the pubs after 8:00. 24.00 for the sake of alcoholics in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155229	No, but I do believe that it is important that there are rules for the supply of food, and there are also rules for the supply of food today. The municipal councils have a role to play here, as well as the municipal councils have a responsibility to ensure that there is alcohol treatment. I would say that I listen a lot to it when the practitioners of gambling say that it is important that there is a free space. I am also listening to it when we see that the proportion of employees who work black or do not have a work permit in this country is very high when there are inspections at night. That is something that suggests that, in fact, it cannot be a legal business for gaming halls if it is to make a profit at night. So for both of these reasons, I think it is a really fine regulation that we are making here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155309	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155310	Well, any argument put forward by Mrs Astrid Krag here that gambling halls must be closed after 8 a.m. 24.00, can also be used for a proposal for forced closure of pubs after 24.00. 24:00. But they don't work there, because we say that it's a pity for the people who want to go to the bar after 2:00 a.m. 24.00 who do not have alcohol abuse, that they should be robbed of that possibility. And so it can be said here that it is a pity for those who want to play after 8 a.m. 24.00, who are not gambling, that they should be robbed of the opportunity to play after kl. 24.00, just because Mrs Astrid Krag wants to save those who have an abuse. Those who have an abuse must be helped in other ways than by punishing those who do not have an abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155348	I think it is a good proposal that we have here where we regulate the opening hours of the gambling halls. I can say that in the gaming hall where I live, it has now been introduced that small microwave-warmed samosas can be bought, so that those who have serious abuse do not even have to leave the arcade to consume the calories they need overnight. So I think it is a sensible proposal. After all, I know that the Liberal Alliance sees this differently and believes that we should regulate much less in all contexts. But here we are then fundamentally disagreed. We can see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155420	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155429	We are discussing a bill on which the Danish People's Party has been part of an agreement, so we can of course support it. The bill is about a number of different things, among others. night closing of gaming halls with winning machines, repealing rules on a reduction in the tax on distributions, and then there are some adjustments to the fee scale for online casinos, and then there are a number of other relatively minor adjustments. One of the things I would like to mention is, among other things: the issue of online casinos, where the settlement period is changed from today to being weekly to monthly, which is an administrative relief for the industry, and we think that is an excellent change. Fees will also be changed to take greater account of the fact that there are a few large players on the market. There is a change in the fee scale to make it more proportional to the turnover they now have. That is also a very sensible thing. One of the major things in the bill is then the part about the abolition of the possibility of having a reduction in the tax on distributions to non-profit-making associations. It's changing now, among other things. to stop fraud, which there has been some evidence. It will then be replaced now with a temporary scheme in 2016 and 2017, but in a way that we ensure that the associations that have previously received funds can still get subsidies. It has been important for the Danish People's Party in these negotiations to ensure that many of these small, relatively unorganised associations continue to be affected, which do not necessarily know about large pools at Christiansborg or in the Ministry of Culture. It may be a small billiards club or folk dancer associations that have sponsored some things from an arcade, and we think, in this sense, one has to try to see whether one can aim to hit something similar to that scheme • but of course take into account that there should not be the level of fraud as there might be with the old scheme. So we look forward to it being evaluated and hope we can find a new model that can hit those objectives within it. Then there is the night closing of gambling halls with winning slot machines. As the previous rapporteurs have already said, it is in order to limit gambling dependence. It's being set up for now that it has to be closed from 8 a.m. 24.00 to 07.00, and that's to give people a natural break when playing. And, of course, to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, there is also a difference in relation to people who drink beer. It gets like a more natural end if you keep drinking too many beers. Then it stops, and you have to take a break. So it doesn't necessarily do that for people who play. They can go on. Yes, it stops, of course, when the bank book is empty or you've played house and home away, but it'll be a good thing if you can give people a natural breath. That's like the point of this and the big difference between... If people drink beer or liquor. Overall, I can say that the Danish People's Party can of course support this proposal. And then I would just like to raise one last point, which is not part of the draft law, but it may be that the tax minister might be able to address it in his reply anyway. It is that in relation to a number of associations I think most of the tax rapporteurs have been changed at the statutory level, some things have been changed that create doubts as to whether they can continue to join several associations and hold banko games, which has been a good source of funding for a number of good associations. I have the impression that there is no problem. I have also mentioned this to the tax minister in the past, and I also believe that the tax minister agrees that there is no problem. However, it would be nice if, for the sake of these associations too, we could perhaps get confirmation from the Parliament's platform that this is a problem that has been highlighted and that there should be no problem in the future too that the associations can join forces and hold these banking games, which are quite popular. So I hope it's okay with the tax minister that he might be able to get into his speech, even if it's not exactly in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155841	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then we go to the radical rapporteur, sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421155851	Thank you. I would actually like to trigger the tension immediately, which is why I would like to say that the Radical Left actually supports this bill. Of course we do. Many sensible things have been said about this, and agreement is striking. And I fully agree with my fellow Socialist rapporteur on what has been important in this and also on how to curb gambling. I just want to add a few words to the gambling thing. This is a serious issue and, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned, it is only undeniably harder to have some natural barriers to gambling, because with the developments we have technologically today and with the opportunities we have, it is impossible to play up a great deal of money before they can, so to speak, no more. With regard to a comparison with beer intake or other intake, which is also not fortunate in the large quantities, I think there is a difference anyway. But gambling is a serious problem for society, and the gambling people I have talked to wish there was a helping hand on the part of society. These were just the comments I wanted to make on this bill, which we also support radically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421160034	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421160050	I think that the bill has been examined quite meticulously, so I will only make a few cuts in relation to what has been very important for the SF. We agreed to abolish the 95 per cent cut. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. Then we have also seen a problem of high levels of gambling and that is why the Minister proposed this, and we agreed that we had to keep closed at night. We're not liberals in the SF. We think that where it makes sense, you should of course not make unnecessary rules, but we see a strongly increasing problem with gambling addiction in Denmark, and this will therefore be a way to give those who have problems with gambling addiction a break from it. There is also a good deal of effort in relation to money laundering and agreed gambling, but what I would really like to say from up here is that in relation to the good agreement that I think we made with the tax minister, some very specific cases have subsequently emerged, some issues, among others. SIFA TV Bingo, whom I know has been in contact with both us politicians, but also the tax minister, and the tax minister should have said, as I have heard, that there should be no obstacles to SIFA TV Bingo continuing. They themselves feel that there is, that it will be practically impossible to continue. When we made this legislation, it was precisely to get rid of cheating. It wasn't to stick a stick in the wheel of associations like SIFA TV Bingo, which has a pretty big local political significance. So I very much hope that we can get an answer because, as I have been told, the tax minister said it should be able to continue, and the people of SIFA TV Bingo say it cannot. I think that is quite important to clarify here today. Otherwise, however, we think that there are plenty of good proposals in this which we have negotiated with a number of other parties. I have also promised to say from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who could not be here, that despite the fact that they are not included in the agreement, they support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421160331	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421160340	First of all, I would like to say something about some technicalities. This draft law, as is also stated in the draft law's observations, contains two agreements from two different areas of agreement. One agreement is part of the Liberal Alliance and we are therefore obliged, because of the agreement, to vote in favour of that part of the bill at least. The second agreement is not part of the Liberal Alliance and we are opposed to parts of what is reflected in the legislative proposal from that agreement, and we do not intend to vote in favour of them. So I assume that there must be a stupid, stupid oversight in the Treasury when the Treasury delivers these two agreements in one bill, making it impossible for the Liberal Alliance both to vote according to conviction and to vote according to the agreement we have made. Because we cannot vote both for and against the same bill. So, of course, I assume that the tax minister will split the bill so that it is possible to live up to the agreements that have been made. The first agreement of which the Liberal Alliance is a part contains some liberalisations of betting and online casinos that have been demanded by the industry. They are very sensible, and that is why the Liberal Alliance is also included in that agreement, and that is why we would like to vote in favour of that part of the legislative proposal. The second agreement also contains some sensible liberalisations, but also some unreasonable tightenings. There are, among other things: a new closing law for Denmark. Since the public debate and parliament have been discussing the closing law that we have in the area of shops for decades and have virtually abolished it, it is now necessary to introduce a new closing law for venues, gaming halls. After 2:00 a.m. 24 they must not be open, even if they want to, and even if there are people who want to play, even after midnight. 24. As you know, not all people go to bed early. Some people are more nocturnal than others, and among these people there are some players who would like to play at night while others who prefer to go to bed early and get up early in the morning and go down to play then. We see no reason for this discrimination against A and B people in gambling legislation. And the reason why you have to do it for the sake of people who are gambling, that is. which has developed an abuse of gambling, does not hold. As you know, the gambling market is in a fantastic and wild development in these years, when more and more games are going on online, and anyone who thus leaves an arcade to go home can easily continue his playing by just instead of going online. That's one thing. The second point is that abuse should not be stopped by closing the law on legal services. Imagine if we were going to ban pubs from being open after 2:00 a.m. 24 because there are alcoholics in this country. Of course we do not, and we do not, of course, because there are plenty of people who would like to enjoy a beer or three after three o'clock. 24 without having any abuse whatsoever. And it would be a severe restriction on the freedom of these people if they could not be allowed to go to the tavern after 1 p.m. 24. In the same way, there are lots of people who are not gambling, but who want to go to a gambling hall after 8:00. 24, and for the sake of their freedom, we should not introduce a closing law for gambling after 8 a.m. 24. As in the case of alcohol treatment, the focus must be on those who have an abuse, that is. Alcoholics, too, must be so that the focus must be on the gambling people and not on all sorts of others. Every legislation should aim to ensure that legislation is so limited that it affects only those who need legislation and does not restrict the freedom of all kinds of people who do not need guardians in the Folketing for example. to tell them when to drink or when to play. Finally, the bill here contains that money which could previously be spent at gambling halls for 95 per cent is now about to be sent in centrally and from there for a transitional period to be distributed to the same people who have previously received them, i.e. the locals. So, the money was to be distributed locally in the past for benevolent purposes determined by the local gaming hall, but now it has to be collected centrally. The idea is that at some point there will be officials in the Ministry of Culture who will decide on the money. We are opposed to this, too. So, for that reason and because of the night closure, we cannot support that part of the bill, and if the bill is not shared, we cannot vote in favour of what we have otherwise agreed to vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421160855	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421160904	The reason for this proposal is abuse and cheating and humbug in a small part of the area. The vast majority who run the games here from winning machines are law-abiding, doing well, humping and toiling with their business, but there have been some stingy vessels sometimes that have made it necessary to clean up. That is why we stand by the agreement we reached in December with the government about cleaning this up, creating more liberalisation and giving a better opportunity to have a sensible business plan for those companies that have the profit-making machines. There are some things that I think we should still discuss, both internally and within the conciliation circle, but also within the committee. Of course, we stand by the agreement there is. The whole debate on opening hours has been mentioned here. We stand by the need to close down parts of the night cycle. The experience I have had myself, and I have worked a lot with it and talked to the environments about it, shows that there are many gambling people at certain times, and therefore there is a need for control and attention about it. That is why it is also necessary and proper to close at certain times in some of those shops. But we think that business can be taken into account. There has also been a hearing from the DAB, which talks about the possibility of closing hours from 8 a.m. 2 a.m. instead of 2 a.m. 24:00. There is a situation in which pubs find themselves having to close their vending machines at 1 p.m. 24:00, and then they close the pub at 8:00. 2.00, and this may cause some divergences and some problems both for the pub and for the guests, and I think that we can look at whether we cannot be more flexible on that point. Then there is also a concrete proposal for an administrative simplification process, which is that instead of paying an annual fee, when you have these new profit-making machines, the industry would very much like to have it transferred to monthly fees itself. Why would they want to do that? That is the way they also settle in relation to the taxes they pay, so it will be a simplification for them to have it transferred for monthly payment, and they are even willing to raise it a little bit, so you don't just divide it fee by 12, but it will make life easier for them. I think we should listen to that too. A third point that we would certainly like to take part in looking at here during the course of the debate is to look at when the additional levy will be paid and whether it could be kept up with time, so that it would also be doubled. Otherwise, however, we think it is a relevant proposal. It's important to get to grips with this area, and it's gonna help fight some of the more stingy tubs in this business.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421161149	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Doris Jakobsen, Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421161202	Thank you. This bill, the draft law amending the law on gambling, the law on gambling charges, the law for Greenland on certain games and various other laws, is based on a desire to improve the situation in connection with the provision and control of gambling both here and in Greenland. The bill is very technical, but as I read it, it acts, among other things. to safeguard this industry against abuse of illegal money laundering, support for terrorism and the development of gambling addiction. These are good purposes which no one can possibly object to, but unfortunately the proposal has not yet been dealt with in Mr Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, and we therefore do not know what the Greenlandic response to the proposal is. According to the information I have, the delay is due to the choice we had in Greenland in the autumn. I should therefore just like to point out that Siumut does not expect this proposal to proceed to the second reading until the outcome of Mr Inatsisartut's examination of the matter is available and can be incorporated into the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421161328	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421161342	First of all, I would like to thank you for the good debate in this Chamber. I welcome the two agreements that form the basis of the draft law, and at the same time I am pleased that agreement can continue to be reached in the field of gambling and that broad agreements can be reached on adjustments and amendments which may prove necessary. One agreement contains a large number of elements, but I am particularly pleased that a broad agreement has been reached to put an end to cheating on distributions, while at the same time ensuring that the charitable associations continue to receive money for the good work they are doing. Instead of a reduction in the tax granted by distributions for charitable purposes, a temporary scheme is established whereby the charitable associations which have previously received distributions may apply for grants. This will ensure that the real charitable associations receive all the money and that the money will not go into the wrong pockets or be shared in the gate. The scheme will be administered by SKAT and will provide a solid basis for later defining a permanent model for these distributions. Ludomani is an area that I take seriously, and I am therefore also pleased that it has been agreed to introduce a requirement for gambling halls with winning slot machines to keep closed between midnight and midnight. 7.00 to limit the spread and extent of gambling, and I am pleased that at the same time agreement could be reached to raise the current effort limit of DKK 0.5. for 1 kroner. and the winning limit from DKK 300. 600 kroner. on machine à sous machines so that an attractive legal market can be maintained. In the light of the experience gained with the liberalised games, there has been a need for some legislative adjustments, and the second agreement refers to these adjustments. This concerns, among other things: amending the tax period for betting and online casino where the current weekly settlement has been found to result in an accidental loss of deduction from the tax base for gambling providers. In addition to the measures mentioned, the conciliation circle has agreed to allocate funds to launch four gambling studies to provide new knowledge of which games are gambling, as well as a research project on which treatment methods work best so that we can strengthen the fight against gambling. A number of questions were raised in the course of the debate which I would like to address briefly. That was first, sir. Mads Rørvig, rapporteur of the Left, rightly mentions that an evaluation must be made of the large part of the game area, which is not under the Ministry of Taxation but is under the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture. It is true that this evaluation must be carried out this autumn. For the sake of good order, I have to say that the original law in this area was postponed for a year, which is why the related evaluation was postponed for a year. The Committee on Culture has also been informed of this. I have to say, for the record, that I am not actually aware of whether the Committee on Taxation has been informed of this. It's just to get that part of it right. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, mentions in his rapporteur's speech how the future distribution will take place. I must stress that no provision has been made as to how the future distribution will take place. The temporary arrangement has been made. There was such a suggestion that it should be in the Ministry of Culture, but I would like to stress that no provision has been made for this in the context of the agreement that has been made now. So there is no future line for it. How a future distribution structure should be determined only when the evaluation is available in 2016. I do not want to lay down anything at this stage, but it is important, at least, that the group of parties currently in existence should, of course, be involved in such an evaluation and decision. I have also taken note of Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's desire to split the bill. I hear the message, and I would like to come back to it in committee. Mrs Doris Jakobsen from Siumut raises the question that this has not yet been dealt with in the Greenland Parliament. I understand very well that, when you have had a choice, there may be some time shifts. I think that we can solve this by making some changes to the phasing-in times, so that in Greenland you will be able to deal with this. We will also return to this in the committee work, but I am very pleased that Mrs Doris Jakobsen has drawn attention to this issue, so that we also comply with our obligations in this respect. Then both Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF raised the issue of announcements regarding banking games. And as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær quite rightly mentioned, it is not announcements that relate to the legislation we are working on now in connection with the proposal, but I would, of course, still like to reply to it about the proposal to amend the rules for the organisation of non-profit lotteries. As I said, these are two separate notices which have been submitted for consultation but have not yet been issued. The draft of the new notices on non-profit lotteries aims to update the regulation so that it becomes up-to-date. It is the case that the current regulation has basically not been changed for over 20 years and has therefore not followed developments. This is true, for example. in relation to the technological opportunities which can be made use of for the organisation of public non-profit lotteries, and the actual supply of lotteries held in association. We have to recognise that the lottery of associations has moved very far away from the original association lottery, which was held more than 20 years ago, i.e. where the numbers were pulled out of a bag I think the term'shake' is still being used plenty, even if it has long since been shown that it is in practice such a machine that draws the numbers. And it is clear that the regulations and legislation must also take this into account. At the moment, the consultation responses to the notices of non-profit lotteries are being examined and meetings have been held with, inter alia, the association mentioned by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SIFA TV Bingo, where SIFA TV Bingo has presented their challenges with the proposed regulation. The Ministry of Taxation and I understand the issues raised in the consultation responses also to SIFA TV Bingo, and the Ministry will further examine the challenges. In other words, dialogue is under way. However, it is important to stress that the donation element is the primary element in the organisation of lotteries by non-profit associations, so that non-profit lotteries are not considered to be gambling, and that is to say that one plays primarily to support the non-profit association in question. If non-profit lotteries are comparable to gambling, we run the risk that the monopoly on lotteries cannot be maintained and thus the charitable lotteries will have to compete in a liberalised market like bets and online casinos. That is not appropriate. I think it is important to remember that with the gambling legislation of 2010, betting and online casinos were liberalised, while the monopoly on lottery was thus maintained. Therefore, in order for the monopoly of lotteries to comply with EU law, it is important that associations do not actually operate gambling and that the donation element of the organisation of non-profit lotteries is maintained. So in other words, we have a dialogue with the associations involved. SIFA TV Bingo is one of them, and there have also been other inquiries to the Ministry that we have continuously handled, and I see no reason why these associations will not be able to continue their activities. Some changes and adjustments will have to be made in the way we work, but I am quite sure that we will find solutions to that. I have recently received a letter from one of the associations mentioned here today, SIFA TV Bingo, and I intend to invite them to a coffee meeting in the Ministry, so that I am also sure that we will have any stone turned on this issue before a decree on my part is signed. Now back to the legislative proposal before us: this will bring about the necessary adjustments and changes to the legislation on gambling, and I look forward to the further examination of the draft law also the issues which the rapporteurs have proposed should be dealt with in committee work. I will, of course, endeavour to answer any questions that may be raised in this connection as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162407	There are three questions, the first is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162412	I am a little surprised that the Minister cannot say on the spot that he will of course divide this bill into two. That is what the agreement is, that is, that the Minister should put forward a legislative proposal here, on what has been agreed with, among other things. Liberal Alliance, so that the Liberal Alliance can live up to the agreement and vote in favour, and not that the Minister should confuse it with something else that the Liberal Alliance is against and that prevents the Liberal Alliance from complying with the agreement and voting in favour of the part that has been agreed. That is why, of course, the Minister must now and here say: yes, of course I share this bill. That's how the culture is in here at Christiansborg. It is incredibly unheard of that the Minister did not have it in mind in the drafting of the bill, that it is two different groups of agreements that have contributed to this and simply confuses things with a legislative proposal. Can the Minister confirm here and now that he will share it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162513	I would like to mention some examples of legislative proposals in the Danish Parliament, which put together overall legislation in different ways, and that parties indicate how they relate to the individual elements of the Act, for example the Finance Act. However, as I have said, I have heard what the rapporteur has said about this, and I would like to take it into account and, as I have said, we will take it into account in the work of the committee. There are other technical things that we also turn around in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162544	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162547	Can the Minister for Taxation point out precedents in which two agreements with different parties have been merged into one legislative proposal, so that it was impossible for one or more parties to vote either for or against the bill that was presented because the party was part of one contract, but not in the other contract?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162612	It is not unusual, for example, that there should be a ban on the use of hormones. tax elements are included in financial law agreements. But as I said, I've heard Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen's arguments, and I would like to turn them over to the next committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162623	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162627	The Minister spent some time on the case that has been from Aalborg with SIFA TV Bingo, and what I really want to ask a little more about is that when it has so far been possible to operate in the way that SIFA TV Bingo has done, generated profits for good local purposes, I am of course pleased that the Minister is following the matter and inviting people to meetings and discussions. However, I would like to have a slightly more firm commitment from the Minister whether the Minister believes that the way in which it has so far been possible has been a fine and proper way and that the Minister will also make a political effort to ensure that it is also possible to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162719	In any case, it can be said that from the point of view of the participant it is not necessarily because the big thing needs to be changed. There is nothing to prevent, as I immediately consider it, from doing so, for example, by means of a television medium. What needs to be clearer is, among other things, what the funds are going to do and, as I mentioned in my speech, it is also for the sake of ensuring that there is a clear dividing line between what is commercial and what is non-profit-making. It may well be that some administrative changes need to be made, including inter alia: who it is that should apply for permission, without going too much in specific details about it. It is not because there is such an administrative task, but we are also looking at this, including the distribution of funds and such things, but I would like to say that I am allowed to turn this over with representatives of the association concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162825	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162828	I hope that I will interpret the Minister's reply in such a way that the Minister is constructively involved in the discussion with a view to finding a solution, because it is of course broad that we have received representations on the matter. The mayor of the Socialist Party has gone into the matter because the money that is being provided is spent on a large number of good local purposes, and so it is a bit of a pity if it is to be bureaucracy and announcements that put the stones in the way of an organisation providing funds that can help, among other things. to provide young people with reasonable leisure opportunities. So I really hope that the Minister will go a very long way to meet what I think seems to be a very sensible proposal with a lot of beneficial effects, without having to carambola with all sorts of other considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421162923	I certainly have the constructive hat on this, I would like to emphasise that. I would also like to say that I do not believe that it is necessary, for example, to clarify who the money is going to be, in any way whatsoever, in conflict with what exists. So I think we can find solutions to that, but it is also true that there can be some technique and not least an understanding. What we are talking about is of course association-based, and therefore there can also be an understanding, in terms of what it is really like for these legal interpretations to be made, which of course we also very much want to help translate into an explanation, in other words how it works in practice. And as I said, the announcements have not yet been signed, and therefore there may also be adjustments that need to be made in order to ensure that this works properly in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421163018	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421163020	It's just a receipt to the minister. I am extremely pleased that the Minister is aware of this problem. It is not just a problem that relates to a particular side of the Assembly. It is wide, ranging from Enhedslisten to Left, among others. through the mayor of Aalborg that this is perceived as a huge problem. I can tell you that. There are 218 associations benefiting from SIFA's activities, SIFA's distributions, and it is simply necessary to appreciate this. Over 3 million will be distributed. kr. A year ago, I signed off on the fact that the Minister was fully aware of these problems. I just have a prayer, because one thing is to say that SIFA TV Bingo can continue, but we must be careful that what is voluntary does not end up in so much administration that it simply cannot be done. To put it bluntly, it has actually been exemplary, yes, I do not know how many years, for the benefit of sports associations and sportsmen. But a receipt that the Minister is fully aware of the problem. It's actually really big local. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421163132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421163135	Thank you for those words. I would say, then, that it is obviously necessary to exercise due care in all cases, because, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen also really mentioned, it is relatively large sums of money we are talking about here. Therefore, it does not matter, and therefore there must be no doubt whatsoever that this is a non-profit association activity, so neither reported association here nor any of the other associations in Denmark, because there are very many associations doing this type of activity on a larger or smaller scale, should face challenges because the monopoly itself may be called into question. It is very important for me to say that this is of course also why we need to look at and update these notices in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421163229	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421163243	The debate is open. The first to speak is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421163303	Thank you, President. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 70 states that the Danish Parliament must require the government to submit by the end of 2015 a legislative proposal to tighten the penalties for the illegal trade in excise sweets and to increase the number of inspections carried out in companies, etc. dealing with excise goods. I would like to begin by saying that I fully agree that action must be taken against the illegal import and trafficking of sweets and other excise goods. It is unacceptable that companies cheat on the payment of taxes and in this way also destroy the business of law-abiding companies. SKAT's effort project • Illegal import of excise goods in 2014 has shown that it is needed with focus on the area. In this context, both control and preventive penalties are important tools for reducing the abuses that are taking place. I would also like to stress straight away that it is clear from the SKAT 2015 action plan that efforts in this area will be strengthened. In this sense, the proposers' demand for increased control is already a reality. Illegal importation of taxable goods takes place in wholesale undertakings, in the retail trade and in private individuals who sell locally from the private residence or at their place of work. The largest total tax evasion is experienced by illegal imports at the wholesale level. In 2014, controls in this area triggered a post-payment of approx. 32 million kr. in taxes only. In addition, criminal proceedings may involve both sentences of liberty and fines equivalent to the tax evaded. It is clear from SKAT's 2015 action plan that efforts at wholesale should be increased in cooperation with the police and the FDA's travel team, which can confiscate an illegal warehouse. Of course, action must also be taken against the shops which sell goods from which no excise duty has been paid. As part of the control in 2014, there has been a post-payment of charges for approx. 9 million kr. In addition to new controls, SKAT's 2015 action plan shows that there will be a follow-up to previous controls among the companies revealed in 2014 not to correctly calculate excise duties. In the case of new infringements, the fine could be doubled in accordance with the current rules. Both private and shop owners who have not registered as importers may be fined for importing goods which are not for their own consumption and which are therefore deemed to have to be resold without payment of the charge. The controls in 2014 have granted a limited post-payment of tax of approx. DKK 90,000, so I am sure that this is one of the areas that the SKAT is paying attention to when prioritizing the future control effort. In the first half of 2014, SKAT carried out a special project with a nationwide control of 75 selected dealers of mix self-sweets, and one in three of the controlled stores sold sweets where the fee was not paid correctly. The shops were not randomly selected, I must say, so it cannot be concluded that one third of all Danish candy dealers make mistakes, but the picture that emerges shows that there are clearly good reasons for increased efforts in this area. In addition, SKAT has initiated checks on wholesalers who have supplied sweets to shops which had not paid a proper tax. SKAT plans each year's control efforts on the basis of the latest data, analyses and experience, and the control activities are continuously adapted in the light of experience gained. Follow-up controls are a natural part of this effort. Mixing self-candy will also be a special focus area for SKAT in 2015 in the effort project • Illegal import of excised goods. With the increased number of controls and the more systematic approach to control, as well as the enhanced cooperation of the authorities, in particular with the Danish Food Authority, more effective action will be taken in 2015 against the illegal trade in mixed self-sweets in both wholesale and retail trade. As another element of the motion for a resolution, the proposers feel that the so-called Coke fines should be doubled. The fines are linked to certain categories of goods such as chocolate, tobacco, alcohol and packaging. A fine of 5,000 kroner may be imposed. per product group in first case. So that's up to $20,000. The fine will rise to double once an infringement has been found. This type of fine is applied where the seller cannot prove that certain goods have been taxed, but where it is uncertain how much tax evasion is actually due because it is a snapshot. It is a fine applied to spot checks and the fine is fixed for each tax law which has been infringed. This is a very simple process for carrying out criminal proceedings based on an assessment of the level of tax evasion. If the full avoidance is to be documented, the company's accounts must be reviewed and analysed. In such cases, the penalty could also be much more serious. Thus, in the case of deliberate evasion, in addition to the refund of the tax evaded, the fine will be once the amount of the evasion up to DKK 100,000, and if the evasion is more than DKK 100,000, it will be a penalty of liberty. What we need to bear in mind is that there is a link between the level of what is referred to as cola fines and the level of evidence to be provided by the authorities in order to impose the fine. Often the product groups covered by the so-called cola fines legislation will be sold in the same store. Following the proposers' proposal to double the fines, this would mean that the level of a first infringement would rise from a maximum of DKr 20,000. to a maximum of DKr 40,000, provided that infringements are detected in all categories of goods. In view of the special nature of the cola fines and the fact that there is scope for stricter penalties in the context of a more thorough review of the situation of companies, I believe that consideration of an increase in the level of fines requires a closer examination of the legal implications and the facts which may challenge the control. That is why I have asked SKAT to focus, in the context of the targeted control effort in 2015, on documenting the results of the checks in such a way that there is a basis for assessing which actions could possibly increase a preventive effect. In other words, the government is not opposed to the possibility of tightening the level of fines, but it is important that a decision be taken on the basis of a closer examination of the area. The Government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution on the doubling of the so-called Coke fines on the basis of the results of the checks carried out by SKAT. and the subsequent investigation with a view to assessing, inter alia, The legal aspects should be awaited. However, as I have pointed out on several occasions, this certainly does not indicate that the government is not aware of the problem of illegal import and trafficking of sweets. As it should also be clear and as it should have been shown, a strengthened effort by SKAT to combat the problem has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164150	There are a few questions. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164156	The motion for a resolution here imposes, among other things: the government to put forward legislative proposals to increase the number of inspections carried out in companies, etc. dealing with excise goods. Is the number of inspections carried out in companies dealing with excise goods currently established by law? And if no, what does the Minister of Taxation think about it if the number of inspections should be determined by the law of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164230	It is true that it is left to SKAT to make a plan of action. I think it is good and sensible for us to do so in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164238	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164240	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a good and sober statement. Now we are probably approaching a parliamentary election, and then there can often be controversy in it in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I do not think that there was in this speech, and I would just like to sign for that. After all, this is a problem that we have had for many years, in other words, where we have seen that there has been a high level of fraud, especially candy fraud, and it is because of a combination of the amount of fines, the number of checks and the fact that the level of duties has increased dramatically. That is why I think it is important to look at the tools that are available. And I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister is not dismissive, that is to say that an investigation will be started. But I would just like to appeal to you to also look at the frequency of return visits. Because it is the case today that if you have been visited by SKAT and are fined because you have not complied with the legislation in force, an average of 338 days will pass before you get another visit. If you now know that it can take so long, well then the incentive to cheat is extra big, because you can actually make a lot of money swindling with these taxes until you get another visit from SKAT. So wouldn't the Minister of Taxation agree with me that it's important that you follow this up more quickly than you do today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164407	Return visits may be made before the first case is closed; at least it is important to make a statement. There seems to have been some discussion about whether it could take place, i.e. whether there was a pending case, could possibly postpone a return visit. And it is clear that it is important that we focus on it. However, I would also like to emphasise, as I said in my speech, that SKAT will certainly return to visit again. I will not mention the names of some of the companies that have already been identified as having challenges. In this context, of course, it will also be ensured that the processing time will be as optimal as possible. On the other hand, it is also clear that there may be the challenge that if a company has been revisited, it will not be possible to return to it once more because it has changed owner in the meantime. This is certainly a challenge that is often seen in this area. However, this simply underlines that there must be a great focus not only on return visits, but at all on control efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164524	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164527	It is clear, as the Minister also said in his opening speech, that there must of course also be a focus on legal certainty, so that you cannot necessarily come an hour later or the next day and check again. But in the food sector, after all, a model has been drawn up whereby people who know there are problems with people who are more common than others. Could it not be imagined that it was a similar model in this area and, at the same time, that it is they who are the fraudsters who are going to pay for the extra control? There could be some starting fee plus e.g. any fee or other fee per year; Initiated neighborhood. It doesn't necessarily have to be the model, this Parliament has at least established that you could benefit from oats in other areas. Couldn't it be an idea that in this survey in SKAT you could take along whether this model could be something you could work on? At least I think it might be a good thing that they are cheating who are going to pay for this extra control, because it is precisely a problem for the law-abiding companies that they are being outstripped by these scammers and, therefore, it is not they who have to be dealt with with new controls, but those who are known to have been cheated in repeated cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164636	The companies under control have been selected through a risk analysis. This means that companies are identified where there is a particular risk. I would be uncomfortable if SKAT were to finance its control efforts by printing fees to those who are controlled. I think it is quite healthy that it does not work that way. However, I agree that we must, of course, focus our efforts where the risk is considered to be greatest. This is also what has been done in the controls that were carried out in 2014 and where there was therefore a high level of gain, if I may say so, and that will also be done in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164719	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421164728	For a long time I think we have noticed that the media has been able to report numerous examples of organised illegal imports of sweets sold in kiosks or actual candy shops, and again this morning there was a new story that a great find had been made, where employees had run off and there was absolutely no pure flour in the bag. And if you move around the country a little, you can now see more and more shops advertising candy in loose sale, mix self-candy, at extremely low prices • 6, 7, 8 DKK. 100 g. And that has certainly led the legal part of the industry to shout guard in the gun, for they believe that if every day candy is offered at such low prices, there is something wrong. You shouldn't be able to make a business hang out with that. A month ago I had the pleasure of holding a conference here at Christiansborg on border trade and consumer behaviour, and here there were representatives of the Danish confectionery industry who said that as things were at the moment, and as the prospects were, if things just continued, there were shop closures and staff layoffs on the agenda, because competition from the illegally imported candy, which had not been charged, simply removed the premise for their business. And, of course, there's no point in that. It is clear that the taxes adopted in the Folketing work and have an effect, and when a product suddenly becomes heavily taxed, it also becomes more interesting for smugglers and people who want to avoid tax to deal with it, and therefore candy is a profitable business for people who want to act outside the letter and spirit of the law, and therefore we see that there is a huge explosion there. And, of course, it is offensive to all law-abiding citizens and people who do business that, for example, candy is clearly and openly sold at prices so low that the possibility that taxes and VAT have been paid is obviously not present. We must, of course, put an end to this, and that is why we in the Left are fundamentally in favour of the intentions of the resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. We do not think that what is happening is satisfactory, because it is quite unreasonable for companies acting according to the rules of the law to experience such unequal competition. So there is a need for sustained efforts, and I note that the Minister from the Chair has said that work is being done in this area and that he has asked the SKAT to carry out a closer examination of what is possible, also on grounds of legal certainty. And I think, as a Leftman, that it is always positive when the government has an eye for legal certainty. It is, of course, a bit strange when it is probably an hour and a half since the government has today decided that the authorities can now override a binding answer that has been given to them as a taxpayer by SKAT. Legal certainty was completely trampled underfoot, but it has come out again, and there we can rejoice that it has not been completely forgotten. So I am concerned that something is being done in this area, and that is why we will, of course, go constructively to the work. We note that the government is obviously aware of the matter and is also willing to take initiatives. And then we will have to see whether that is enough or whether further action is needed, both in relation to fines and on-the-spot checks. And, of course, I fully agree with what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen pointed out earlier, namely that there should of course not be a legal requirement as to how many inspections there should be, because it is not in the law that it should be written. But that there is an extremely high positive gain when SKAT goes out, I think it is obvious to everyone, and that is why the extent of fraud that exists in this area could give us some pretty firm thought as to whether further controls and measures are needed, and we will certainly look at this constructively from the Left. So there are many sensible directions and elements in that proposal. However, I also note, of course, that the government is prepared to take initiatives, and then, in relation to the further work, we must see how we are realising what I hope there is broad agreement on, namely that we must effectively combat illegal trade and tax fraud and unequal competition with those companies that are trying to conduct an entirely legal and legitimate business. It is not fair for them to see that their livelihoods disappear because there are some who cheat. In other words, the authorities will have to take tough action so that those who fraud are caught and put into tax and also receive what may be the result of fines and prison sentences, because that is not fair. So, as I said, we are very much in agreement with these intentions, and then we will look constructively in committee to see how we can achieve what I hope there is a great deal of support for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165328	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165343	Thank you. Like the rapporteur of the Left, and also the other rapporteurs in this Chamber, I think I have also followed very closely the stories of recent times about how illegally imported sweets are being handled in a way that we may well call rather nasty with poor hygiene and pitiful conditions for employees. After reading those stories, I don't think I'm the only one who's thought twice when the kids have asked for Friday sweets and picked one of the good closed bags in the supermarket where you know what you're dealing with. That is why I very much agree with the proposers that we must take action against illegal imports of and illicit trafficking in sweets. With the motion for a resolution we are debating right now, the proposers want to tighten the penalties for illegal trade and the sale of excise goods as sweets. There is also a desire to increase control of the area. On the part of the Social Democrats, it could be understood by the Minister that this is how the government feels. We do not want to deny that higher fines can have a preventive effect. However, if the fines are to be increased, it must be done in a well thought out way, in which we have identified what is of preventive effect and where we are sure that there are no legal complications. That is why we also think it is sensible that the tax minister has asked SKAT that when carrying out checks, they should also document their results in a way that will allow us to assess what actually has an effect and to justify any new actions. The proposers also want SKAT to carry out further follow-up inspections at the premises of the companies that have illegally imported excise goods. SKAT, in its 2015 action plan, focuses particularly on precisely the fight against the sale of illegal sweets, as the Minister also mentioned. After all, this is an increased focus, which also means more inspections by SKAT in the companies that last year, i.e. in 2014, did not reply correctly to excise duties. That is why it can be said that the increased control that the proposers are calling for is actually already taking place this year. In other words, it is rather an open door; we agree that the area must be given priority, and we are therefore pleased that the area has been prioritised with SKAT's action plans with increased control of mix self-sweets, as it is called in popularity. But let me be clear: we are not in any way opposed to increasing the fines and other preventive measures, but we will give SKAT the opportunity to first examine what really works in terms of combating illegal trade in, among other things. Bland self-candy. That is why the Socialists cannot support the proposal as it stands, but will say, like the rapporteur of the Left, that we can talk in committee when it sounds, at least so far, as if we share many of the intentions with the authors of the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165628	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165632	First of all, thank you for supporting the intentions of the resolution. I am, of course, very pleased about that. I am also prepared that we in the committee work can look into how we can agree on the further process. That is actually what I would like to ask you about I should actually have asked the tax minister, but then I had used my two brief remarks. So I just want to know if the Socialist rapporteur is aware of when such a study is expected to be available. It could be that, as a member of the governing party, you knew it, and if you don't know it, it's okay. Then I have to ask a committee question about it. But it was really just to know if the rapporteur might have known.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165707	No, I must admit that I do not know what the end date of that investigation is. But, of course, we can get an answer to that in writing in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165718	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165728	Thank you. I do not want to go into many of the very detailed and constructive explanations that the Minister has referred to, in relation to what is the background to control in this area, and to support what the Minister and also the Socialist rapporteur said, namely that our intentions coincide with the proposals of the Danish People's Party. In other words, the intention is, of course, to combat the illegal import and sale of excise sweets. We also want the necessary controls to be carried out in this area. But I also think it is important to wait for the conditions outlined by the Minister. Then I would like to anticipate a question which the rapporteur for the authors of the motion might ask about when it would then be that we would see an analysis of these conditions. I cannot answer that on a stand-by basis, but I would say that this is also an area of concern to the Radical Left, which is why we will of course keep an eye on it. All in all, however, I would like to say that we support the intention that the Danish People's Party marks here. But we say no to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165854	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165859	I would actually like to ask the rapporteur if he does not agree with me that there is too much time left between checks and re-checks if there have been irregularities in the accounts. Today, the average time before rechecking is 338 days. In some cases it takes as much as 700 days to make a return visit. I would like to know if the rapporteur does not think it is too long and makes one's desire to cheat too great. Because if you know that it takes so long, you can sell a lot of candy that is not taxed and make some good money on it if you can look forward to a fine of DKK 5,000 alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421165935	One can say that one thing is what I or we such intuitively think is short or long time in terms of re-control. Something else, then, is what is analytically right to do, given that, of course, there are also limitations on the resources of the SKAT. I also mean, when I hear that number, that it sounds like a pretty big number. And I would really like to bring that down politically, and I would like to see whether it can be done and whether it makes sense. One thing is to get the number of days for rechecking down. Another thing is whether it is also something that is rational to do in relation to the resources there are. I don't know, but I think we should check that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170022	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170025	However, I would like to thank the Radicals for their willingness, in spite of everything, to make it possible for us in the committee's work to continue with the task of getting SKAT to include it in the study that is to come and which I assume the Committee on Taxation will then be sent over so that we can have a look at how quickly a return visit or a re-check can be made. As far as food is concerned, it is within two months. So when it comes to these cases, it's within a year. So it is obvious that there is room for improvement. But I am just glad to say that the Radical Left is prepared to make it possible for SKAT to look at that part as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170058-2	It can be said that control behavior, fines and such parameters have their own history, depending on which sector you are in, whether it is the food sector or whether it is this sector. The important thing is that everything is done on an analytical basis and that when you do it must be effective and it must make sense and it must have a preventive approach. I think it's obvious that we're looking at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170133	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170152	On the part of the SF, we are moderately in favour of the draft law, and I have also heard what the Minister has said in the Chair today, and so I think we should wait for some answers with regard to the slightly more concrete further work that is expected to be done by the Ministry. But we hear, as has also been said from up here today, sometimes examples of extensive fraud both with candy, but also with many other things, which is why I have also been a little surprised that this is specifically candy, this bill is about. Perhaps it would be useful to see if there were problems elsewhere. After all, excise duties exist in a wide range of areas such as sweets, wine, nitrogen in fertilisers, feed phosphate, cigarettes, etc., so if the Minister has now promised more concrete answers to what that work will lead to, it might be very good to see if there were other places where we should put in place. In fact, I think it is reasonable that the costs of follow-up inspections should be borne by those who have been found cheating. I think that is perfectly logical. We would like to look at the fact that the costs of follow-up by wholesalers or small businesses are borne by those who have cheated. In short, we are not ready to say either 'yes' or 'no' yet. We think this is a good opportunity to discuss it here, because it is both cheating the honest and honest businessmen who are not cheating, but it also hurts all of us and the Treasury when they are cheated, and it may also be a health problem that there is no control over what is being imported into the country. So I think it is a fine bill that we would really like to discuss more and go into detail. I think there are a number of things in the report which the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has said about the fact that it simply takes so long before a follow-up visit is made. And such follow-up visits cost money, and that is also why I have struck down whether you could find another way to finance it than to impose additional costs on SKAT. Then I should salute from the Enhedslisten and say that they share SF's view. They are also positive about this, but they are hesitant.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170449	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170456	Law is law, of course, and the law must be kept as a starting point. But we cannot support this motion for a resolution for two reasons. One reason is that it suggests that we have to determine by law in the Folketing how many inspections the SKAT should carry out in shops dealing with excise goods. I do not think the Folketing should lay down that by law. I think that's something the SKAT needs to find out. Even though Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is a very knowledgeable tax politician, I do not think he is knowledgeable enough to be able to tell SKAT how many inspections they have to carry out. And neither am I. That's one reason. The second reason is that the fines must be doubled. As the Minister of Taxation has so well explained from the platform, the fines are already quite high if the SKAT can document the extent of the cheating. If SKAT is unable to document the extent of the fraud, but can only establish a single infringement, then it is possible to pay a fine of DKK 5,000. and up to 20,000 kroner if there is cheating in four different commodity groups. To double the fine to up to DKK 40,000, without the SKAT being able to document the extent of the cheat, does not sound proportional to me. That does not seem to me to be reassuring from the point of view of legal certainty. So we cannot support this resolution. We must vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170652	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170705	It is important, it is relevant, and it is good that the Danish People's Party brings the theme up. We know that a great deal of cheating and humbug is going on in this area; we know that it is difficult for SKAT and the authorities to come after them; and we know that the people who sell these things black without taxes are also connected to various criminal environments. That is why it is appropriate to step up efforts. I think that we should move from talking to acting and therefore agree with the intentions of the Danish People's Party's motion here. It is important that you get the right proportion of the fines. The fines have not, if I may say so, been indexed and have not followed the course of time in relation to taxes that have increased and in relation to how society has otherwise developed, so we agree that the fines should be increased. We also think that it is right to have more inspections carried out; that we check whether or not we comply with the law, and that will also be preventive. Then there are elements of what we cannot fully understand the consequences of, both the economic and the legal consequences, but basically the Conservative People's Party is positive about the intention of the Danish People's Party's proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170826	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421170838	As mentioned by virtually all rapporteurs, this is about the fact that we in the Danish People's Party will require the government to submit legislation by the end of 2015 to tighten the penalties for illegal imports and sales of excise candy, and that there will also be increased control over the companies, wholesalers who have now fraudulentd these excise duties. The background, as several rapporteurs have also pointed out, is that there has been massive fraud over these products for several years, particularly in the retail and vegetable trade environment, but also at the wholesale level. And this control has shown, also by SKAT, that there has simply been a massive amount of fraud, and I think we need to look at it and have some initiatives taken in the Folketing that can help to stem it. That is why we propose in the Danish People's Party that we look at both the penalties and look at an intensification of control, so that there is a greater chance of being caught and that we thereby also reduce the incentive to swindle. Because it has to be said that when the fines have not been regulated since the VKO's fair play package from 2006, while excise duties have risen sharply from DKK 14.20. per kg to right now 25.97 kr., there is therefore for those companies out there a great incentive to cheat. This means that we also need to tighten up both controls and penalties so that they balance and are more proportionate to each other, although I understood that this was the reason for the Liberal Alliance not to vote in favour of it, namely that it was considered to be disproportionately. As mentioned in several questions, there is also a challenge in that the average time from a return visit, if revealed once, until you get visits again, is 338 days. It varies from 153 days up to 700 days, and when it takes so long to have a return visit, the risk of being caught is quite minimal, and there is therefore a great incentive to continue to defraud excise goods. That is why we are proposing to introduce controls such as the one you have in the food sector, where it is they who have cheated that will pay for the increased controls. Specifically, it is in the food sector that you get a basic fee of 340 DKK and that you pay 508 DKK. per So it's financed for SKAT when you're going to have this increased control, and that's why it doesn't hurt their other control tasks. The good thing about this way of doing so is that it is the fraudsters themselves who are going to pay and that it does not harm the law-abiding companies. For it is therefore a major problem for really many shops and wholesalers that they are being outstripped by fraudsters and impostors, even though they are actually trying to run a legitimate business. Finally, I would like to say that I am glad that there is some support for the proposal, but not if it is put to the vote, but people agree with the intention of the proposal and we are prepared to look into it in committee. In particular, I am pleased that the Ministry of Taxation has set in motion a study of how we can now do this in relation to the penalties, as I understood most, and that we may also be able to put pressure on, in relation to the fact that we are also looking at the control efforts in terms of having the period of return visits reduced. But let us take a closer look at this in the committee work, and then I look forward to getting something done about this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421171235	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421171249	The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421171307	Again today, we have to deal with one of the special legislative proposals which gives citizenship to a large number of people. Today, these are 3,314 adults, and they are 1,867 children who are born with their parents. For me, as rapporteur for the Left, it is gratifying to be able to help ensure that a lot of people can now add a Danish citizenship to their identity. They have already shown with their application that they choose Denmark and that they want Denmark. It is pleasing, because Denmark's doors are open to those who can and will and will the Danish values. We have previously discussed in this Assembly proposals for dual citizenship in this Chamber. Those who acquire citizenship with the proposal that we are now considering will also have the opportunity to achieve dual citizenship if they so wish. It may be that they still feel close to the original country of origin and that they therefore want to retain their citizenship. There is a broad political understanding of this here in the Folketing. The Left welcomes the new citizens and supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421171423	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Karen J. Klint. She's not here, so we'll go to the next rapporteur. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421171440	Paper box after cardboard box filled with paperwork has been dragged in on e.g. week after week. My office. The massive quantity of paper is exemption applications from persons who wish first and foremost to be exempted from language requirements. If they can refer to, inter alia: PTSD or any other disease may be exempted, which is the responsibility of the Committee on Birth Rights. A red majority in this committee has taken extremely great advantage of this, so that since the 2011 elections, there has been inflation in the derogations. In 2011, 214 exemptions were granted. Now compare with 2014, when a red majority granted 1,682 exemptions. We do not yet know what the figure will end this year, but in February it was 574 derogations, and that, if the government continues, will end up sky high. So what do these numbers mean? They mean that more and more people get Danish citizenship without being able to speak the Danish language. So people are given the right to vote in the parliamentary elections, what we call the festival of democracy, without necessarily being able to speak the Danish language. When ordinary people who have not got their point of view corrupted by political correctness, i.e. ordinary people with common sense of snuff, hearing about such things, they take their heads: Can you really get citizenship without being able to speak the Danish language? Yes, in Denmark you can. And under the present government you get it on a large scale. The language is, of course, the very point of departure for one to be integrated into Danish society at all. The people who grant derogations from language requirements will, I believe, never become part of Danish society. And why should they have citizenship and the right to vote in parliament? We can, among other things. For that reason, don't vote in favour of this bill. The very purpose of language requirements and tests is, of course, that the individual learns the Danish language, learns Danish conditions, in Danish history, gets to know the country, gets to know the culture and spirit of the country. The idea is that through a knowledge of the Danish language and a knowledge of Denmark one is integrated, and the crown of the work for successful integration is citizenship, where the individual becomes a Dane, being incorporated into the Danish community. There are also other reasons why we cannot vote 'yes'. In so many areas of foreign policy, the government has relaxed. This also applies where language requirements are relaxed. We want to go the opposite way. We would like to strengthen the language requirements, so that is why we cannot vote in favour either. Finally, there is one person who has acquired automatic citizenship through the stateless convention without meeting the requirements that everyone else must meet in terms of Danish knowledge and citizenship examination. It is therefore poor for the bar to be so low, because there are actually people who strive, are industrious and want to have Danish citizenship and therefore meet the conditions. We cannot accept this law for these reasons. So DF says no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421171904	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then Mrs Karen Klint has appeared, and then we go to Mrs Karen Klint as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421171920	Thank you. I'm sorry. It was a little far from the meeting I was in and down here. We've had a long day, but it's been fast here in the end. I think we have a very serious matter and, for some, a very welcome matter for discussion at this very moment, the law on citizenship. When I say this is a serious matter, it is also a little in the light of the serious tragedy that took place in the Mediterranean on Sunday and which, unfortunately, is not unique. There are many people who feel that they cannot remain in their homeland, so they are prepared to risk their lives to find a place that is more peaceful than where they come from. It is also a little gratifying, because there are not many days until Sunday when we have the citizenship day in here, and it makes all parties a party day, because we also think it is a declaration of love for Denmark that so many people who have lived here for a number of years also want to be full members of our society. The bill we are wearing today is then number two, and that is the rhythm we usually have in a collection, that is, that we have two legislative proposals in autumn and one in spring. The bill contains 3,314 adults and 1,867 children. I have to stress, in order to prevent misunderstandings, that not all citizens on this bill have a derogation. We have some very clear rules that grant exemptions to some people. That is not all 3 000 in the legislative proposal, because there are also some who meet the criteria. The reason why some are granted an exemption is that they have learned Danish in a different way from going to language school. There are actually people who have been self-supporting and learned work-place Danish and have been committed in Danish society for many years. There are also citizens who are born of parents, where one parent, for example. is an English citizen and the other Danish citizen, and when they were born many years ago, it was forgotten that the children who came out of such an English-Danish marriage were not automatically Danish citizens, and it is actually only when they go to the municipality and have to renew their passports that the municipality says: Well you have never been a Danish citizen. So we have the whole range of different options for applying for citizenship and also for exemption. When we have a lot of cases on, both last time and this time, it is also because extra staff has been employed to review the applications that are because we had a waiting time to get an answer to your request for about 18 months or more. As far as I remember, it is 15 extra case managers who are employed and of course they are doing something, and of course we are also working the hump, which is why we are wearing a lot of people. There are also some other cases that have made an impression. An elderly gentleman of 96 years, who has been here since the cultural revolution in China, has been here in Denmark as a quiet existence for the next 50 years. And it may well happen that he doesn't look like one of the most well-integrated people in Denmark, but he has at least fed himself, and he has been in Danish society without rubbing with anyone. I am actually comfortable with the fact that he can have a derogation and live the rest of his time in Denmark, where he has lived more than half of his time, and do so as a Danish citizen. Then there are some conditions under which a majority in the Folketing can decide to grant derogations for certain conditions. It is very traumatic reading, because there we can see how devastating it is to subject people to torture. The countries that are in favour of torture have, of course, and it is very shameful to say that it is very successful. They are successful for the purpose of torture to destroy people, and they are. And then you get caught up with what you've been through; maybe it doesn't happen from day one when you get out of prison or get away from the torture, but maybe it happens after a few years. It may be a traffic accident that causes it to be triggered so that you get PTSD with serious consequences for life and health and for well-being. We have had an expert meeting in committee on PTSD and what it does to people, and it certainly impressed me, and I think it also impressed the others present, what PTSD can actually do to people, even with retroactive effect, if one can say so. It is almost as if you have a dementia, and you may also almost lose your mother tongue, you lose at least the Danish you have learned, and then you will need a derogation. Personally, I am comfortable with seeing the personal cases here in Parliament or at least some of us have to go because it gives a very good insight into what these people have been through. In the future we will also see some other matters, because we have now opened up to double citizenship, and that will then give us some other conditions. So, from the Socialist side, we are behind the bill that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172433	There's one question. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172436	I do not think the rapporteur heard what I said. I do not think so, because I did not say, as the rapporteur suggested, that everyone on the proposal had been granted a derogation. I didn't say that. I gave some exact figures that since 2011, and since the government has arrived, there is a red majority in the Committee on Bodily Rights, which grants exemption to everything. That is to say, there are people who get citizenship that cannot Danish. That is what I oppose, because the very prerequisite for obtaining citizenship and becoming a Dane must be that one can be Danish. I understand that these people need to see a doctor. But that you want to give them citizenship so that they can even vote to the Folketing without being able to speak Danish, without necessarily being able to understand the way in which Denmark works, I simply do not understand. That's what I'm up against. You can see from the figures that we have received from the Minister for Justice that inflation has really gone on in how many exemptions are being granted. It is the responsibility of the Social Democratic Party and it is the responsibility of the Red majority not mine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172603	Now I didn't address my speech to mr. Christian Langballe, but for the public, and it was for the public that I mentioned the figure on the bill. So I'm sorry I didn't just hear the beginning of Mr. Christian Langballe's speech as rapporteur. I am not just talking to one rapporteur when I give a rapporteur's speech. Then I speak to the Folketing and to the people. It is true that there is an increasing number, and that is what I was trying to explain by saying that when you are pulling a hump, there will of course be an accumulation of additional applications during the period when we reach the normal state, also of derogation. Then it has changed so that if you have PTSD, which is an obstacle to learning Danish or going to Danish education, then exemption can be granted. In fact, there are also some examples that I personally have not granted a derogation, and I think that is the case too, Mr President. Christian Langballe knows. I know they don't count heavily in the large amount, but we're actually reading them. We read all the cases and we decide whether there is a good reason. Then you can always discuss how important the Danish language is. I think it's important too. I also think that cultural understanding is important, but I actually think that many of the people have managed, despite what they have been through, to have many of their children, some of whom have grown up, through a higher education in Denmark. So they have actually behaved as responsible adults and as responsible citizens in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172737	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172739	I would just like to ask you about the hump which, it is believed, has been planned off and which is supposed to be some sort of administrative problem. When we look at the people who are granted a derogation, it turns out that it is people who have been rejected under the Blue Government, under the previous government. That is the hump that a red majority is now consistently saying yes to. It's an exception... a real exception... which I find it hard to remember... that they say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172811	Now it is no longer than last week that we actually discussed whether or not I said no to a case. So the memory is pretty short, I think. It is true that there has been a change in relation to the disease picture that can play a role, and then there have also been some other changes in terms of naturalisation compared with some other countries. But it is not the Red Government that has worked up the hump that was. Not everyone has applied after we have arrived. It is also because there was a long process time. There was also a long time before there was a change in the disease picture. So there are many reasons why there are now many people, but I think it is fair that people should get answers in the foreseeable future. Then there is a political disagreement about what to grant a derogation for, and I take note of that. It's not in my hands to convince Mr. Christian Langballe about something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172909	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421172916	Thank you for the floor, President. My rapporteur's speech today is not very long, but I have been looking forward to holding it. This is the first time that I, as rapporteur, have been involved in the first reading of a draft law on the communication of citizenship. It is usually Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen who is a naturalist, but as she is prevented, I have been honoured here today. It is great to have Danish citizenship recognised, and it is responsible, both for the people who are now becoming Danish citizens, and for all of us who have been for many years or all of us, because with this proposal our community is growing, and when that community is going to work, it requires that we all take it on us, take responsibility for us and work together to make it strong and robust. I have no doubt that the 5,181 people who will soon have the message of citizenship will fight and work for that, and I am also sure that the vast majority of us, who today form the community we call Denmark, will welcome it and will welcome the new members. I will certainly do it here from the most fine platform of the people's regime, namely Parliament's platform. I would like to warmly welcome all the new Danish citizens to our Danish community. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173030	I thank Jeppe Mikkelsen and give the floor to the next rapporteur from the SF, and that is Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173038	When you have participated in the citizenship day here in the Danish Parliament, you can really see how festive, popular and enjoyable it is when all the new citizens are given the opportunity to enter Christiansborg. It's a really big day for them to get their citizenship. This is the day when you have got through the needle eye with tests, self-support and all the other demands we make on new Danish citizens. It is something very special when you have acquired your citizenship, and that is why I would also like to congratulate the many, many people who have now been admitted to the bill and who are expected to have Danish citizenship. Then I would say that there are a great many of those who have been admitted to the bill, who have probably waited a very long time to obtain their citizenship, because we have very long processing times right now at the birthright office. It was a pleasure when the committee was visiting the Ministry of Justice and was able to see how thorough work is being done on these matters. But we will also look forward to getting a solution with digitalisation soon, which will bring the birthright office into the digital world. And we hope that this will reduce the processing times for the many new future applicants for citizenship. So: Congratulations on your new passport and a welcome here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173217	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Then I give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173230	I should like to welcome our integration and immigration rapporteur, Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, who unfortunately cannot be here, and congratulate everyone on the bill on citizenship. We shall, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173249	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173303	Thank you. It is, of course, a serious matter that we are dealing with, and it has already been said that we have been dragged around here at Christiansborg with boxes of documents with sensitive personal data, and that is why we cannot, of course, discuss here today at all, say the real content of this draft law. We can see that a certain number of people are now getting a birth certificate, 3.314 plus small 2,000 children, and there is reason to note that hopefully it will also be good for Denmark and good for those who get it. For it is quite right, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party points out here, that there has been a change in policy in this area. After the last election, when we obtained a red majority, a practice was simply adopted which meant that you could deliver the right medical certificate, it was obviously that you got a 'yes', regardless of the fact that you did not know the Danish language and whether you could not pass a birth test. That is to say, we're giving citizenship to a number of people who actually have pretty bad odds of doing well in this society. And it is a significant change from the past that the relatively narrow majority says yes to almost everything that comes on the board. After all, there are two teams in this: those who meet the rules and who run through the Ministry of Justice without having to deal with it in the Folketing, and then those who get dispensation. Normally, a derogation is well intended for situations where there must be a specific justification, a particular reason for granting a derogation. And here it has become the case that virtually all those on the list are granted derogations. It is quite rare for some to get no, and that is why, of course, we are some parties here who have said no to a number who are going to get a 'yes' today. We note that that majority is there; I would just like to stress here today that it is the red majority that was established after the last elections that fundamentally changed the rules of the game of the communication of citizenship. In spite of that, of course, we say yes to this bill because it has the composition and content it has. And we also welcome everyone and congratulate them, but point out that, as soon as possible, we are ready to contribute to a different policy in this area, which we believe will be considerably more responsible for all parties than what is happening today. So with the comments of endorsement of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173624	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. I give the floor to the next rapporteur. It's for the Conservative People's Party, and that's Mr. Conservatives. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173632	Thank you. As the Conservative rapporteur cannot be present, I have promised to make her speech. The bill includes 3,314 adults and 1,867 children who are born with their parents. We propose that the bill be adopted and we wish to congratulate the candidates at this stage, as we foresee that the draft law will also reach a third reading and be adopted here in the Folketing. There is no doubt that it is a great day for all these people when, after the third reading of the bill, they have acquired Danish citizenship. When you get Danish citizenship, you get the same rights as all other Danes, but you also get the same duties. To the new citizens I would like to say directly: we have a clear expectation that you are engaging in the Danish democracy and society. Active citizenship is essential and important in order to continue to ensure cohesion in our country. One of the opportunities to participate is to participate in the citizenship day on Sunday. I hope that a lot of people would like to pass by Christiansborg and say hello. The meeting between the new citizens and the parties of the Folketing is very good, and this shows that there is a short distance from the elected representatives. It is just one of the good things about our democracy. In addition to being a festive day, it is also a solemn day, because it is very great to give up your previous citizenship in order to become a Danish citizen. A great congratulations from here to the future Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173810	Thank you, sir. Daniel Rugholm. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice... but the Minister of Justice has nothing to add. As no one else has asked to speak, this means that the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173834	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421173852	I can be brief because I think there is a great deal of good in the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. It goes without saying that it is necessary and important for the police to have the necessary tools to carry out investigations when we are dealing with crime and there may be a necessary tool for recording television cameras. As the SF is fully aware, there is currently an evaluation of the overall police action in relation to the terrorist attack against Copenhagen. In this context, the authorities will pick up on the experience gained and make any recommendations to us politicians. As we have said in connection with the presentation of our terrorist proposal by the government, on the basis of the overall evaluation, we will return to the Folketing and the public in general with the new initiatives that experience may show that there is a need for. We would like to wait for the overall evaluation before taking a final decision on what individual initiatives should look like. However, as I said before, I am in favour of the idea of recording surveillance cameras, which is why there is also an immediate positive statement on the part of the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174006	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174010	I am grateful to the Minister for being positive about the idea, and I hope that the explanations will also show that we should have a register of this kind, because I think that would be very, very good. I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister expects the statements to show whether there is a need for the register or whether it is something that has a longer time horizon. It's just to understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174033	In this way, I have no direct expectations of what the explanations will contain, other than the general expectation that I expect them to uncover the whole process, including, of course, the video cameras. It turned out that surveillance cameras played an important role in identifying who the perpetrator was. So the question will of course be addressed. But I don't know about the recommendations yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174057	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174100	Okay, but does the minister think that the idea is so good that it is an idea that, although the recommendations prove not to include a recommendation for a register for cameras, should be continued? There is also one consideration to be given to the Data Protection Agency, which actually lacks a register today in order to be able to control cameras. So it could really help both the Data Protection Agency and the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174128	I would like to take this opportunity, and I have said it in other contexts too, to wait for the evaluations before finally taking a position on how the future work in this area should be carried out. I immediately think that a register of video surveillance is a good idea, but may I not, since there is this good tone between at least one of the parties of the Folketing and the government in this matter, call for us to look through the evaluation when it is available and then discuss the further process from there. However, as I have said, this is a positive expression on my part.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174201	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174211	Thank you. Today it is the case that public video surveillance can be set up at banks and shopping centres; and this can be done at the premises of housing organisations, and it can also be done in areas where the municipality believes it is needed for the safety of its citizens. We have to say that there is a great deal of scope for setting up video cameras in Denmark. I also believe that it is in the comments on the draft law that it is stated that there are in fact over 500,000 surveillance cameras in Denmark. That was one I was just about to say appallingly large numbers to at least me to hear. However, since this is the case, the question is whether we should draw up such a register as the proposers propose here. In this connection, it should be noted that it is not just a register of new cameras; it is therefore also a register of existing cameras in both private and public areas, which means that it is if not all 500 000, so at least all those who are outside. That's a big number. However, I recognise the background of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and I am sure it has its origins in the ideas that emerged from the terrorist attack, where the police may have spent a long time trying to find out which cameras could have picked up this one or not. So there is no need for us here in the Folketing to obstruct the police's investigative capabilities and the speed of investigation. So basically, I am positive about the proposal. If, however, the Left does not wish to give its support to the proposal at the moment, it is only because the Minister here in the Danish Parliament has indicated on a question from the Danish People's Party on 11 March 2015 that there is a statement along the way. And I do not think that we should anticipate the course of events by deciding here in the Folketing on something that a statement from those who really have their hands on the pulse can give a clearer answer to. So on that basis I can say that the Left reserves its position. We would like to see the statement and, if it is negative in relation to this proposal, we would very much like to resume the debate. But we're just gonna let the Justice Minister come along if not a play, so at least the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174436	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. We move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174446	Thank you. I must start by stating that we Social Democrats are positive about recording cameras, and that is also why we have discussed this idea in the Folketing in the past, and that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice at the back of the terrible terrorist act in February have expressed their support for the registration of cameras. I think I dare say that camera surveillance has come to stay. In fact, the method is becoming increasingly widespread both in the prevention and investigation of crime, so the question here today is not whether we should have surveillance with cameras, but whether the many cameras should be recorded so that they can be used for prevention and detection purposes. However, registration requires the development of a model that takes account of a number of factors. On the one hand, there must be an administrative system behind registration and, on the other hand, consideration must be given to the requirements for, for example, the distribution of recordings and, possibly, the quality of recordings, and it is clear that registration of cameras will have to be designed so that the police find it useful. This is also the reason why the police have been asked to reflect on this type of registration. The recommendations have been awaited in a short time, which is why I believe that we should wait for that work before launching and implementing comprehensive models of registration. Of course, we owe it to the officers who are to apply in practice the system we are now discussing. So, to repeat, we Social Democrats are in favour of a model to ensure the registration of camera set-ups, and that is also why we support the proposal here today, but with the reservation that we must await the work and recommendations of the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174648	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174655	Thank you for that, President. Yes, it may not come as a surprise to the authors that the Danish People's Party is very much in favour of this proposal and that we also support it. That is also evident in the light of the fact that Mr. On 6 March this year, Peter Skaarup asked the Minister for Justice an almost identical question, which was: "What is the Minister's attitude to making a single register with the police that shows where in Denmark video surveillance has been set up?" At that time, the Minister for Justice was in favour of the proposal, as I can also hear that the Minister for Justice is today. She'll just wait for this evaluation of the report. However, such a register must help prevent terrorism or to solve crimes as quickly as possible, and we are well aware that it cannot stand alone and that a register is only one of many tools. We have probably all read the article in Jyllands-Posten on Sunday about the good experiences they have had in Aalborg with a 24-hour surveillance centre. Positive results are achieved, and we believe that these experiences should be continued so that other cities can also have the same opportunities. But let us start by getting a record of the cameras that have already been set up so that we do not get into a similar situation as on February 14, when cops should spend time locating the cameras and perhaps out to heat champions and others in a residential area, and we know that sometimes time can cost lives. One of the things I'm aware of is that cameras can expose those who are guilty. It can, for example, be done. be the one who irons the match at a firefight, or the one who leads the knife in an assault. It is a great help in group crimes, which we unfortunately often see. It is difficult to prove who the main person responsible is, and sometimes it may also be the case that the guilty are actually free. Right now we are seeing a case with a group of young people who have beaten up a young girlfriend and girlfriends here at Christmas time, and there could certainly have been a great help too. In view of the fact that the police force has been reduced by approx. 500 men in recent years, we see in the Danish People's Party that camera surveillance is an extra electronic police officer, which we must accept with kiss hand. So the Danish People's Party supports the proposal because we want such a register, and we also think that some of the experience gained from Aalborg should be taken into account in the further discussion. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174937	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. And then I give the floor to Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421174944	Thank you for the floor, President. We Radicals are also in favour of this proposal, and this is because it can make police work a little easier in pressure situations and, above all, it can create greater overview and control of monitoring in Denmark. But I'm gonna have to challenge a few things. Firstly, I think it is a bit premature to try to conclude what should happen before the police and other authorities have completed their final collection after the attack in Copenhagen. Let's put cold water in the blood. Perhaps there are other elements that the collection shows we should rather prioritise. Maybe it shouldn't be, for example. All cameras. Secondly, I simply have to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt what we have in mind about funding. You want to record about half a million cameras. Now let's say it's just $100. in the case of costs per case; camera for the public. Actually, I think that's low. The figure could be much higher, but let's just say, for example. 100 kroner. Then it's a one-off cost of 50 million. We are going to find funding for this proposal, and there is no mention of funding in the proposal at all, and that is why I am mentioning it. The figure could be even higher and there are probably similar costs for companies and citizens who are being imposed new bureaucracy. So, although this is a good idea, and I agree that it may well be, we will probably have to be a little realistic, and I hope that Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt will give a few words along the way in her rapporteur's speech. So, to sum up, we Radicals would very much like to continue working on this proposal. As a starting point, we are in favour of this, but in particular the financing part needs to be worked through a little more, and I hope there will be a willingness to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175131	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen. We move on to the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Pernille Skipper for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175140	I would like to start by saying that the Enhedslisten is in favour of the resolution. Whether it is considered that there are too few or too many surveillance cameras in the public space in Denmark, it should be possible to agree that there should be a comprehensive register of them. First of all, it makes it easier for the police when you need some material quickly. As has also been mentioned, in the case of the terrorist attack on 14 February in Copenhagen, the police had quite a lot of trouble saying it in Jutland to find the cameras that were now around. Secondly, it makes it easier to monitor compliance with the rules of the cameras and to ensure that no cameras are set up illegally if you have a registration obligation. Thirdly, it gives us politically here in the Folketing and in society in general a better opportunity to discuss the scope of monitoring on a much more enlightened basis. I would note that Enhedslisten is not in favour of more surveillance in public space. Why we are not, we can discuss another day, but it is for several reasons. One of them is, of course, that it can also be abused and go wrong if you do not have a proper overview of what is going on. Visits by the Data Protection Agency to five housing organizations show that there have been problems with storage times; that areas which cannot be monitored are monitored; that there are screens which have been incorrectly installed; and that there has been insufficient information on monitoring. Only five housing organizations have been visited, although more than 100 permits have been granted. This shows that control of the cameras in public spaces could be far, far better, and so such a register could also contribute to this. As I have said, the Enhedslisten does not want to extend surveillance in the public domain, but we want an objective and thorough evaluation of the existing monitoring, for example. through longer evaluation work in an independent committee, and that is also one of the reasons why we can support the SF's proposal. This is because it gives us a better basis for a sober and objective community debate on monitoring, while, of course, it also facilitates the police's practical ability to access existing surveillance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175415	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. I give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175423	This is a proposal which may give rise to both reflections and philosophical considerations. At least it gives an extra twist on who the guardians are, so to speak. Well, first there's the security cameras, then there's the register, and then who's gonna make sure the records are okay, and then can you hack in with them and so on? It's almost endless. I think there are really too many questions to just vote for or against this motion for a resolution. I can then say that if you are forced to do so, it will be a no if the questions cannot be answered satisfactorily. Is this something that's gonna lead to more surveillance? This will certainly lead to more registration and more bureaucracy. Have there been major problems with the fact that this has not been done properly so far? Is that something we've heard a lot of complaints about and had a lot of cases about? There may not be as many as this is immediately leading up to. Will it cost something, and if so, what? How is this to be financed? Is it not the case that the government is still in the same position, and we are all eagerly waiting for the various statements to be made? Is there anything that makes it necessary to adopt this now and cannot wait? It sounds like something I can almost hear the SF and the government parties say to the rest of us in the same debate, perhaps just with other single elements. That's how weird things are. After all, the Liberal Alliance is not very enthusiastic about increased monitoring of ordinary people. That is why we are not in a position to simply endorse the SF proposal on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175639	There is one brief comment. It's from Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175642	I think I need to elaborate on how this means increased surveillance. The proposal does not say anything about that. This allows us to find out where the cameras are hanging, so that the police can actually include it in their investigation as well. They can go out at any time and ask for a tape strip from a camera if they have a case they want to investigate. So I find it hard to see how this could lead to increased surveillance, and I'm gonna have to have an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175711	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175715	All experience in the field of legal policy, and certainly in a number of other policy areas, shows that we start by using the new tools for the worst crimes, which are also mentioned in the comments. So slowly, but surely, it gets pretty smart that you have this register and with a fingertips you can get footage for the third and the fourth and the fifth and the sixth. And then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt who really has to take the main responsibility for this to happen. That is the answer to the specific question. That was not the only objection we had to the proposal, but it is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175759	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175800	However, I also think that the rapporteur recognizes that there is no legal basis for increased monitoring here. It may be easier to catch up with some of the material you can catch up with in advance, but increased monitoring certainly does not provide it. Then I just want to know whether the rapporteur also recognises that it is actually a challenge that the Data Protection Agency now has the supervision and has to check whether the cameras are hanging correctly and only filming what they must. Because they can't find the cameras. They actually have the obligation to check something that is uncontrollable because they don't have this register. Does the rapporteur recognise that a register would also have the advantage that the Data Protection Agency can actually carry out the tasks for which they are set in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175844	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175846	I fully acknowledge the issue of control, completely. It could be that there were other answers than the register. Well, a question doesn't always have one answer. It is not like a couple where there is necessarily only one question and one answer when it comes to such challenges. And that means that it might be possible to look at how the Data Protection Agency can control it in addition to a register. However, I have to come back to the first question because Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt herself returned to it with increased monitoring. One thing is that I can walk past a camera here and here and here, but if there is a single register that makes sure that you can follow me all around, then of course there is not necessarily any more footage, but there can be a more unified picture. And therefore yes, in that sense there is more and more continuous monitoring of ordinary people who have done nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175946	There is one more brief comment and it is from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421175952	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll knows that our two parties have few things we can agree on, but the fight against the surveillance of innocent citizens is one of those where the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslist suddenly meet. This is something that we in the Enhedslist are very proud of, and I know that the Liberal Alliance also values individual freedoms very, very much, especially privacy. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll must have followed some of the discussions that have been held among private attorneys and movements on the Internet, such as: has tried to clarify how many camcorders are actually in the public domain, because it is intended to point out that this is an excessive amount and that such an overview could contribute more to a debate which, I hope, should lead to a reduction in monitoring. - Sir... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll did not follow that argument for a register?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180058	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180100	I am always happy when the Liberal Alliance and Enhedslisten can meet, and especially when it is with Mrs Pernille Skipper. However, I would like to say that I agree with the view that it may be good to clarify the scope of surveillance cameras. However, I would say that there may be a difference between the question of counting and registration, at least a register. I think that is two different things, which is why I think I can buy the argument that Mrs Pernille Skipper has put forward here without having to vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180138	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180140	Nor do I want to hide the fact that the main reason why Enhedslisten will support this is to have transparency and public access to information about the extent of camera surveillance in public spaces; secondary to the fact that there is an overview for authorities such as the police. Could Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll be interested that we in the committee tried to draw up a kind of sketch which placed some restrictions on access to information from various authorities, so that we had some legal certainty encased, but at the same time got the overview for the benefit of the social debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180230	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180232	I am always happy to enter into a dialogue on improving proposals, including those that I do not think are good. So yes, the answer to that question is a clear yes. However, I would like us to have the evaluation of the course that is being used as the main reason for this before we simply say yes or no to a resolution. What I started by saying was that I thought there were many dilemmas in this and I said that on this basis we could only end up voting 'no' because I did not think many answers were given. However, I think we can get the government more into dialogue, also to give some good answers when we come across the other side of the evaluations that we have asked for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180312	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, because now there are no more brief remarks. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Daniel Rugholm of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180323	Thank you. I feel almost completely guilty of having to interrupt the flirtation between the liberals and the socialists. Unfortunately, the Conservative rapporteur could not be here, so I have promised to make her speech. There are at least 500,000 surveillance cameras in Denmark that are used very differently. Some are set up at a school or at a residential area and act preventively in relation to vandalism and graffiti. Some are suspended in public transport, for example. At stations, and can be used to identify a perpetrator who assaults a defendant at one of these stations. Some are used for private purposes, e.g. be in private entrances or in front of a front door. SF is proposing that all current and future camcorders should be registered in a central register to which the police and several others must have access. If we do not wish to be included in this register in a favourable manner, we must be forced to do so, because at least the authors of the proposals want sanctions for those who do not wish to be included in it. The Conservative People's Party can only support a single system for the public private sector, which has established video surveillance, we do not want to be forced into a register. Potentially, a new Nets scandal could be imagined. It could be taping and selling data, so you can see which guests have gone to a party at a celebrity, by tapping data from a camera in a driveway or by a front door. Thus ordinary Danes risk being hanged out simply because they wanted to secure their homes against forced entry, and of course we find that unacceptable. We are even more sceptical that there should be a sanction for those citizens who set up video surveillance as part of their burglary protection and that they should be forced to be part of such a register. There is no doubt that we Conservatives are tough on crime and that we want to secure Denmark against terrorism. However, this SF proposal is not the right way to go and therefore the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180526	Thank you, sir. Daniel Rugholm. Then the trip has come to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421180535	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the positive comments that, after all, have fallen on this proposal. I think I need to start by correcting a misunderstanding, because both the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives almost give the impression that there is online access to these cameras. There is no question of that. It is a matter of getting an obligation to tell you that you have a camera. Then the police, if there is an incident in an area, know that there are cameras in certain places, and then you can, according to the general rules applicable to the investigation of the law on the administration of justice, etc. There is no question of access to more surveillance. It is a matter of making it easier to identify the cameras according to the rules in force and then obtain the material on which a warrant is issued. It is not a question of online access, it is a simple list from the police, so it will be a little easier for them. I therefore think that this is a misunderstanding which seems to have crept into the hands of both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives here today. Cameras have come to stay, I think Mrs Trine Bramsen said, and I very much agree with that. That is why we must also ensure that there are rules in this area. That was also the reason why, in 2009, I believe, we gave access to the possibility of setting up cameras in residential areas because it was fenced in a way that was reasonable and legal in order. Now, according to the article in Jyllands-Posten, which we have all read, there are 500,000 cameras in Denmark. That's a lot, a lot. So there is a challenge for the police to get an investigation done. They may have to get out on foot I don't know how something like that happens and actually look at the walls, if there are cameras, and then they have to find out who owns the cameras in question in order to conduct an investigation. That is not very appropriate. But it is certainly not very appropriate that the Data Protection Agency, which actually has the obligation to check whether the cameras are set up in the right way and do not film anything that they should not, actually does not have a register which means that they can know where to check. So I actually think you could beat two birds with one stone with this proposal, because you could both help the police and the Data Protection Agency. I understand that most people want to wait for the report in this area. We will then get to that and I hope it will show that this proposal is needed. This is something we've been dreaming of in the SF for many years, mostly for the sake of getting some tools given to the Data Protection Agency. But I also find it problematic if the police spend extra resources on finding the cameras. Mrs Trine Bramsen had to address the issue of the quality of the recordings. I very much agree that we can also, in the long term at least, make demands on the quality of recordings. I was present at the Kolding court and witnessed a case of violence, and it ended up having to let the perpetrator, or at least the alleged perpetrator, go because the recordings were of such poor quality that they could not actually be used to get him convicted. So there is clearly also a question of the quality of the recordings to be addressed. I thank you for the positiveness of most parties. There was a question about the economy in this. I do not think it would be very resource-intensive, because it is really just a question of telling individual cameras owners that they now have a reporting obligation. In other words, they must send their information to the police or the person who installs the cameras must send the information to the police, which then simply on a list records where the camera is located. It should be possible to do so without the great challenges. But we wait and see what comes out of the statements. Otherwise, I will have to take up the question again and see what the mood is politically. But the majority for that right now I can see that there isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181006	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181020	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181040	Thank you. May I not begin by saying that human trafficking is, however, one of the most disgusting that takes place as part of a modern society, even if it should hear a distant, distant past. We are obliged, all of us, both in the judicial system as far as our authorities are concerned, and everyone else as a civilian citizen, to distance ourselves from it and do what we can to combat both its causes and its consequences. After all, no one can be in any doubt that right now sad fates are going around the globe which are victims of trafficking in human beings. Not least on the prostitution scene, we can see that Europe is also affected. I am therefore pleased that the SF raises the issue of trafficking in human beings and would like to make it clear at the outset that this is, of course, an area in which we must give an extremely high priority. Trafficking in human beings does not belong anywhere, and certainly not in our Danish society. Then there is the discussion about how we deal with it in criminal law. As the proposer is quite aware, the penal code contains both provisions on trafficking in human beings, usury and illegal coercion. If the provisions of the criminal code on trafficking in human beings are to be applied, as it were, there are three criteria that must be met. First, the person must be traded, i.e.: you must be recruited, transported or subsequently received by the perpetrator. Secondly, in connection with this trade, there must be illegal coercion, threats of detention. And thirdly, there must be a purpose for the person to have been acted upon. It can, for example, be done. be forced labour in agriculture or service, or that you may be forced into prostitution. The provisions of the Criminal Code on trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploitation by forced labour reflect the international understanding of the concept of forced labour, such as: has been established by the ILO. But we do know that there are plenty of grey areas in this field, and that means that if for example... I am very familiar with this area from my time as Minister for Employment and we, for example. has to do with wrongdoers who are free to leave work without fear of reprisals, but where there is still the gross exploitation that I think the proposer is also aiming for, then the exploiter can be judged for usury under section 282 of the penal code. And that provision must include, among other things: used to protect people from the potential exploitation of the illegal labour market. We are dealing here with a penalty of one year and six months, but if there are crimes of a particularly serious nature, you can be imprisoned for up to six years, that is. that here we have to do at least in a Danish context with a relatively high penalty framework. Of course, we must also have that, because these are very, very serious crimes. In addition, there are also provisions in the criminal code which concern coercion. If we then look at how things are going on in that area because we know that this is an area where it can be difficult to lift the burden of proof, and when you move down through Vesterbro, just by using your own eyes you can quickly question whether everyone is there quite voluntarily and when we look at some of the cases that have been, there has been the garage case, where the backers of the land court were freed from trafficking in human beings, but subsequently convicted respectively 2 and 3 years for usury. This is again, at least in a Danish context, relatively high penalties. Therefore, what I really want to say in relation to the proposal is that I do not think we should start, so to speak, to thin down the concept of trafficking in human beings. On the contrary, I think we should go the other way and make sure that the provisions in the criminal code, in the case of usury and coercion, are actually applied, because there must not be a single backer in Denmark or abroad who has the slightest sense of being free from the serious crimes that they may be responsible for. I would like to say today, because we have the debate, that I am going to initiate a detection of whether our authorities are sufficiently focused on this area. In addition to what I have mentioned here, the purely criminal law, a lot of efforts are being made in a more social context. This is important, and the Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings plays an active role here. Finally, may I not say that there are so many contexts in which we praise globalisation and the fact that people move across borders. It has a backside, and the reverse of that coin is that very many people are subjected to unfair conditions when they are moved either with their will or against their will, and when they have to transport themselves because of poverty problems and conflicts in their home country. We have very many people who are potentially victims of poor conditions in the labour market because so many are looking for happiness, not only in Denmark, but throughout Western society. And we're gonna have to hit hard on this one. It is important that today, in the parliamentary debate, we also send out the clear signal that we do not want it in Denmark. There must be no doubt that we are going hard after that. Therefore, a 'no' to the extension of the concept here, but a commitment that we should work more in this area. In the first place, I would like to start by making sure that the authorities have sufficient focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181644	There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181652	I think it is a major problem that there are people working in conditions that we have seen in the cases mentioned here. There is also a third case. There is also the balcony case, where some people lived on a balcony. Does the Minister not think that some working conditions can simply become so poor that it is like slavery? Well, when you work 20 hours a day for a salary of 5,000 kroner. a month, when you live in a 17 m2 garage without a toilet and the neighbors can see that you sit and have feces in the garden, simply because there is no toilet, and when you are driven back and forth to a workplace and have your identity papers removed, does it not smell far away from human trafficking, even if there has been no element of coercion? At any rate, I think it is a major problem that we should settle for a lower penalty in this area, and that is why I want to hear from the Minister whether there is any possibility of going beyond the ILO Convention which is actually the basis for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181754	I would like to follow the international wordings on which we have been able to reach agreement in the ILO, but I would also like to say that even in Denmark, which probably has one of the most well-organized labour markets at all thanks to the Danish trade union movement, the Danish model and, incidentally, the presence of changing social democratic governments throughout the 20th century, we can see that it is moving forward, both in terms of social dumping, illegal immigration, illegal labour and also in terms of the fact that the conditions of coercion are totally unacceptable. So yes, it is happening all over the world, and it is also beginning to show its ugly face in Denmark. And, of course, in the case of coercion or usury, or trafficking in human beings, the provisions of the criminal code must be applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181848	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181850	Well, the problem is that this is peeking out, and I think this, unlike other cases of social dumping, where you might give a twenty less an hour and it's bad enough in itself, borders on slave-like relationships. I understand that the Minister does not want to tighten up on the ILO Convention, although it is possible. But then I would like to know whether we are going to ratify the protocol in the field of the ILO on which we have expressed a positive opinion, which dates back to last year, and which, after all, will also provide a little better protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421181927	Well, as far as the ratification of the ILO conventions is concerned, this is done by a very firm practice in the Ministry of Employment, and I am very confident that it will do so in this area too. I do not think it is correct to say that I do not want to tighten up on this matter. Rather, it is a question that the provisions we have in the criminal code should also be appropriate to the crimes that exist. If there are victims of trafficking in human beings, it is the human trafficking clauses that need to be worked out. If there is forced labour, as we have seen in some cases, there are other provisions. For me, it has not so much to do with what rules are being put into play, but rather that we are sure that our authorities, including both the Public Prosecutor and the police, have sufficient focus on that area. Because it is unsavory and it does not belong in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182012	I thank the Minister for Justice and give the floor to the next one. It's the rapporteur on the Left, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182023	Thank you. Two things have happened here at the end of the day, I can say. One thing is that I now agree for the second time with the background to a proposal from the SF, and the other thing that has happened is that I broadly agree with the Minister's speech here. For what we can say is that these are matters which are at least worthy of punishment, and I am just saying beyond the boundaries and boundaries; there is no doubt that this is something that needs to be severely reduced. The aim of the proposal is to crack down on forced labour, which contains elements of exploitation and inhumane treatment. And again, I can fully agree with the background, but the question is whether there are provisions that already take this into account today. There is, as the Minister said, the general provision on forced labour, general and general, no, there is the provision on forced labour, Paragraph 262a of the Penal Code on trafficking in human beings, and it contains some elements which the Minister has examined. What is then done with this proposal is, in fact, to extend the scope of a criminal code to cover anything other than what the regulation actually says, with the sole aim of imposing more stringent penalties. I will certainly not rule out this being subject to stricter penalties, but I do not think it should be done in this way. I think it is necessary, if necessary, to consider whether the provisions which are currently on the subject of the relationship should, so to speak, be brought into line with purely criminal law. I believe that this should be the right approach. That was the one provision. The second provision is the usurer's clause, section 282 of the Penal Code. It is, after all, the person who was actually judged and sentenced in the so-called basement case, where we could see that 2-2 1⁄2 years of prison sentences were granted. These are severe penalties in Denmark. However, I shall be the first to say that with the circumstances I read there underlying the judgment, it is a very mild punishment, and I must admit this to the authors of the motion for a resolution, not to mention how long we really have to spend in prison when we talk about parole, including parole for foreigners. So I can agree with the authors that there is probably a need for tightening up. The third provision which might have been considered to punish is Article 260 of the Penal Code on actual coercion. However, the question is whether, in this way, this area should be included in another penal code, and we on the Left could be concerned about that being done. In principle, we are not in favour of extending the terms of the criminal code, and that is what is actually being proposed. So if you want to set up the penal framework in cases that contain elements of gross exploitation and inhumane treatment that do not fall within the scope of trafficking in human beings, then I believe, on behalf of the Left, that the legislation should be targeted at these cases and not try to extend or water down the concept of trafficking in human beings. So the Left has a great deal of sympathy for the proposal, but cannot immediately support it in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182334	There is one brief comment. It's from Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182338	I am actually very pleased that the rapporteur of the Left, like me, is very angry at the judgment that has been passed and also recognises that these are extremely violent things that we do not normally see in Denmark that these people have been subjected to. It is so gross that one simply lacks words for it. I understand that we are not so enthusiastic about tampering with the human trafficking clause, and I can also see that a picture is now beginning to emerge that there cannot be a majority in favour of this proposal. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left if he would then be prepared to make some kind of report so that we can come after this in a harder way, because I think it simply deserves the greatest punishment that can be found in this area. And I actually think it is a problem that it results in low penalties when you cannot use the human trafficking clause. So will the rapporteur of the Left be involved in such a report?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182438	Well, it's hard to find words for that I can agree with the questioner. And yes, I am absolutely convinced that we will, or rather, we will, of course. I think we will just ask the Ministry to explain the case law in this area so that we do not just support our report up to a single judgment. But I must admit to the questioner that when I see that sentence I have said it before I think there may be a need for a tightening of the penalty. So, yes, I think we can work out a story, but it depends a little on what's in it. It's not supposed to be a secret.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182502	That's the way it is all the time. There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. And then I give the floor to Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182521	Thank you. Trafficking in human beings is distasteful and gross and, therefore, the police must, by all means, catch the backers who must be held responsible for their actions. In recent years, we have seen a marked increase in the number of traffickers charged and convicted, and that is positive. There is every reason to commend the police for their fine work. The proposal we are discussing here today is about extending the provisions on trafficking in human beings to include work which, without being forced labour, contains elements of gross exploitation and inhumane treatment. It is a proposal which we Socialists cannot support, despite the fact that we think that exploitation is totally unacceptable, and despite the fact that it is an exploitation which we think it is important for the police to give priority and the prosecution authorities to pursue. However, when we talk about trafficking in human beings, it is important to bear in mind that the definition covers the fact that, against their will, people are forced to do work. When you are treated harshly and the legislation on, for example, the working environment or violence is violated, yes, that is a different definition. This certainly does not mean that we should not take exploitation seriously; it is only very important to bear in mind that we are talking about two different things. Both must be punished, because this is unacceptable, but there is therefore a difference between actual trafficking in human beings under Article 262 or usury under Article 282 or unlawful coercion under Article 260, where the penalty is up to 6 and 2 years respectively. Finally, let me say that we Socialists agree with the proposers that any exploitation of human beings should be condemned and prosecuted in criminal law. But in those words, with reference to my explanation of the two different definitions, I must say that we Socialists cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182723	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. Then we give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421182732	Thank you for that, President. When you read articles about people living on balconies, in garages and abandoned storage rooms without bathrooms and toilets or access to a kitchen, while at the same time working 10-12 hours a day without getting a decent salary, you think you read in the newspaper about working conditions and working conditions in Eastern European countries. But unfortunately you do not, because it is actually right here around the corner that these people have lived and lived and had that everyday life. The Danish People's Party agrees with the proposers that the law is no longer up to date, that we are facing new challenges around our labour market, and that there is a need to adapt the law and change these rules because we have got EU rules on the free movement of workers. Although we disagree politically about the free movement of workers and the many Eastern Europeans who come to Denmark to work, we in no way disagree that everyone working in Denmark should be treated properly and that they should have working conditions under Danish agreement. The prosecution must have the right tools in order to punish backers who earn fat from gross exploitation and inhumane treatment of people who are often vulnerable and perhaps also poor. That is why we believe that these rules should go unfavorably to the backers, so as to stubbornly restrict the number of Eastern Europeans who come to Denmark. Therefore, the Danish People's Party is also willing to look at an extension of the concepts in the text of section 262a of the Criminal Code, and we fully support that. On the other hand, the Danish People's Party is not directly prepared to ratify the Convention referred to in the motion for a resolution. The problem of trafficking in human beings in Denmark must be resolved through criminal law, as proposed by the proposal, and not by international conventions. However, we welcome the proposal, and I can also hear that a report may have to be found in committee, and we will certainly agree to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183001	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. I give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Jeppe Mikkelsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183008	Thank you for the floor, President. I will be relatively brief. I very much share the views of the Socialist rapporteur. On the radical side, we can only denounce the cases mentioned in the motion for a resolution, and we welcome the fact that the perpetrators were found guilty. However, we do not believe that we should water down our human trafficking clause by relaxing the criteria. Actually, we're a little worried about that. It must be something very special which is only used when there has also been coercion. The fact that the courts have not found coercion in the two specific cases does not, in my view, mean that we have to change the whole paragraph. It is also fully in line with international conventions in this area, and therefore we cannot support this motion for a resolution radically. But whatever we call it, the Radicals are against this kind of inhumane treatment, and the most important thing is that the police and other authorities unravel the criminal networks and get hold of the perpetrators and stop the criminal acts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183120	There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183124	I am pleased that the Radicals are opposed to inhumane treatment. I don't think anyone in here is in favour. But I'd like to know if Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen doesn't think it's actually a problem that we have to go after these cases with some toad-old paragraphs about usury and fraud. I mean, we're talking about cases where there's such gross exploitation that you can barely see it as anything but slave-like relationships. Then Mr. Is it not Jeppe Mikkelsen that there is some kind of gap between the human trafficking clause and fraud and usury, which is what has been successfully judged in these cases? Isn't there something missing from time to time where we can put a little more responsibility to these people who make a great deal of money out of other people's misfortunes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183214	Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183217	We fully agree that these are some terrible matters that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has mentioned in the resolution. We would like to take part in discussing whether there can be any obsolete legislation in this area. Just because it's called usury and it's not really a concept you use anymore in modern society, it doesn't necessarily have to be a bad paragraph. But now the proposal is that it should be included in the human trafficking clause, and at least we are not prepared to agree to that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183245	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183249	I'm gonna try again, 'cause I don't really think I got the answer. My question was really about whether there is anything missing. I understand that the human trafficking clause will then not be touched, and I think that is a pity, but that is the position of the Radicals. Isn't there something missing between the trafficking clause and the fraud and usury paragraphs? I do not think that is quite equivalent to the very, very gross exploitation of these people that is taking place. In other words, are we not missing some kind of criminal intervention between them if we do not want to touch the human trafficking clause, or is the radical rapporteur quite satisfied that the lower provisions on fraud and usury are being punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183327	Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183329	Now I am trying to say again: I am, in fact, open to discussing whether there may be a shortage there, whether our legislation is not quite up to date. We would like to take part in a radical debate on this. So it is a little strange if I have to stand and be the soft one with the SF, but I would say that they were, after all, the two or three years they had in these specific cases referred to in the motion for a resolution, are not quite lenient penalties. As I said, we would like to be involved in discussing other ideas, but the concrete thing that is being discussed in this Chamber today about putting it under the trafficking clause cannot be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183410	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen. And then we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183428	Forced work outside the prostitution environment is evidently an increasing problem. There are some quite awful stories in the media, cases that have been uprooted by the police. We are warned from several quarters that trafficking in human beings is an increasing trend, even when it comes to forced labour, both in Denmark and in Europe. I would like to start by saying that the Enhedslisten, like the SF, believes that we have a task in ensuring that we have a criminal law that adequately addresses the most glaring cases, and we, like the SF, are not sure that we have that today. At the same time, there is also a smooth transition or a grey area, if you like, between what we categorise as real human trafficking and forced labour, and then something that is a gross exploitation of labour. This is also what we call social dumping, which can take place in small and very, very seriously, and which means that people in a vulnerable position, often in poverty and without so many other opportunities in life, are being exploited to work in poor conditions and too poor wages. The question then is how we define the exploitation that should be punishable in itself under the criminal code... what we call trafficking in human beings today... and then the exploitation that is gross and that is contrary to collective agreements and perhaps contrary to health and safety legislation, but which is not punishable under criminal law. It's not that easy when you start getting really technical about it. Today, one of the demands from another is that there should be coercion in order for exploitation to be a violation of the criminal code. When you look at the reality of the people who are in this kind of work, the demarcation can be very, very difficult to understand, because the messy and creepy conditions we see are the same: no food, no access to the toilet, work for 10-12 hours a day for 3,000 DKK. 20 hours a day for 5,000 DKK per month. We have also experienced a month. It is reprehensible, whether you can prove the existence of coercion or not. Then there are cases where there have been both serious exploitation and organised exploitation, and where it is quite awful that there has been no conviction for trafficking in human beings, but for minor provisions, as has also been pointed out from up here: usury, fraud, violence in some cases. That raises some questions. The judge in the so-called garage case pointed out in the judgment that the provision is now very difficult to apply in practice. As the SF also writes in the motion for a resolution, there have also been several professors who say that the existing provision is somewhat unclear when it comes to these matters. So I would say that we have a great deal of sympathy for the SF's proposal and we cannot at all deny that we will end up voting in favour of it. However, we would very much like to continue working on it to see if we have enough knowledge and whether it is the most appropriate construction that has been proposed here. In that case, we should have defined what gross exploitation is, what inhumane treatment is such in legal terms, and what we understand about it, so there is still some way to go before we are really in the process of amending the criminal code. We would also like to see some more legal analyses of the problem and opportunities, for example. consult the Public Prosecutor on case law, as the rapporteur of the Left also pointed out, and perhaps hear the Criminal Code Council or others about which, you might say, legal option would be the best. So there is moral support and a proposal to continue working on it by Enhedslisten, for example. through a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183840	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper, and we will move on to Mr Pernille Skipper. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421183853	After all, it is not a particularly pleasant or pleasant matter that forms the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF to amend the penal code in relation to the provision on trafficking in human beings. I think we should be very careful that trafficking in human beings is, unfortunately, a major problem, and I think it is nice that we are discussing it for once, without dealing solely with problems in the field of prostitution, because human trafficking is actually about much more and much more about other, yes, industries are perhaps so much said, but elsewhere than the prostitution environment. Here the SF goes into the question of: what then, when there is no actual trafficking in human beings, but still away what is termed gross exploitation and inhumane treatment? I think it is important that, in the cases and in relation to the things that the SF is thinking about, some penalties are given that are commensurate with the crimes involved, and we certainly will not reject that also means more severe penalties than those given today. I think, however, that the SF stumbles slightly in the technique of this motion for a resolution because, in the case of various serious cases, there is a risk, I am sorry to say, of the relative nature of the various infringements. So, trafficking in human beings is trafficking in my world, period, and it must, like, be for itself. Then there may be all sorts of other forms and degrees of exploitation, of poor treatment, etc., but it is somewhere other than trafficking in human beings, and I therefore believe that this is a wrong way of solving what may well be a very relevant problem. One has to find out that one is that people are forced to live and work in difficult conditions in another country, and something else is that people live and work in difficult conditions in another country, as it typically will be when it is in Denmark, because it is rarely Danes, because there may be some conditions in the countries from which people come, which are so hopeless and intolerable that it may be that they actually travel up here for more or less voluntary reasons, although we may have incredibly difficult to understand it, and in some of us become totally unacceptable situations, even though we find it difficult to understand it. In other words, we think that this is a relevant issue which the Socialist People's Party has raised with this resolution, and we would also very much like to take a constructive approach to it, but we believe that this is the wrong way to go about it, at least technically, and that is why we cannot vote in favour of the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421184218	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Daniel Rugholm of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421184228	Thank you. Unfortunately, the Conservative rapporteur cannot be present, and that is why I have promised her to make this speech. We have great sympathy for the SF's proposal to amend the criminal code on trafficking in human beings. The proposal is an amendment to section 262a of the Criminal Code so that it also includes work involving gross exploitation and inhuman treatment. There have been some cases here in Denmark where conditions for a number of people have been directly demeaning, and we naturally want to put an end to this. However, the question is whether this will be stopped by extending the clause on trafficking in human beings. The major problem today seems to be proof that there is forced labour and slavery-like conditions, and here we see that it is difficult to change that relationship by extending the paragraph. So despite a very sympathetic desire from the SF to deal with the serious issues we have seen, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421184331	Thank you, sir. Daniel Rugholm. Then the trip has come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421184348	This is actually one of the rare times I think there are some who would claim that the SF stands on the platform and argues that we should sharpen the penalties in an area, but I actually got so indignant when I read about these cases in the press. I was just so indignant that people can be exploited in the awful way that has happened in these cases. When there are 12 people tucked together in a 17 m2 garage without access to the toilet, so you have to go to the toilet in the garden; when, the moment you are discovered by the police, you are hugged and with sunken cheeks because you have not had enough food; when you work 20 hours for 5,000 kr. In terms of salary per month, I think it is so gross exploitation of people that it is almost difficult to find words for it. And then I get even more indignant when I find that you cannot actually judge by the human trafficking clause, but have to judge by some milder paragraphs about fraud and usury. I do not think that is satisfactory. I agree with the Minister who says that we need to do more to get these cases. I am quite sure that it is important that the authorities are able to discover these cases and have them brought to judgment. The risk of discovery must, of course, be great, and that is why it is also important what the police are doing to get this kind of thing uprooted. I agree with the Minister this far, but I simply think that there is a gap. If we cannot agree that we need to change the human trafficking clause so that we can get these cases under a much higher penalty, then I think we should agree that we should fill the gap between trafficking in human beings and fraud and usury, which could perhaps be gross exploitation, which Mrs Pernille Skipper is talking about, so that we can define it a little better. I think that might be a middle way to go with this. I am pleased that I have received positive statements from the Enhedslisten and also the Danish People's Party and other parties who will continue to work on this proposal. I think we should do that. There was also an opening from the Radical Left, at least, where we can discuss whether something is missing from time to time between the human trafficking clause and then fraud and the usurer clause. I think it is important to send a signal to the sponsors that there are severe penalties for this kind of exploitation, and yes, we must also be concerned about the risk of discovery. I hear the Minister is too. I look forward to working on this in committee. At least there are a number of questions coming from me. I can see that there is no majority in favour of the proposal now, but I hope that after all we can agree that this kind of thing will not be seen in Denmark. These matters should not be allowed to poke out, and they should certainly not go unnoticed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421184649	We thank Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150421184706	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, April 22, 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
