ParlaMint-DK_20150821100020	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821100034	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821100102	On the whole, I would like to say that we have to deal with three legislative proposals in the area of refugees in the second reading today. And when I take the floor at second reading, it is partly because we were in the situation at first reading that there was no consultation answer, that there was no consultation note because we chose to rush through the legislative process. I have to say, I think that's bad style. I think that as a government we must always strive to achieve as good a legislative process as possible, including ensuring that all the relevant organisations, etc. be heard in time. And I don't see any argument for this to be sloppy. But now we have a second reading, and basically on these three legislative proposals, I would say that we are in a historic refugee crisis. Well, not since World War II have so many people been forced to flee. In fact, I think it is crazy that the way Denmark reacts to this is by asking: how can we do as much as possible to prevent the refugees from coming here? This proposal, L 3, is, after all, about depriving refugees of the right to a retirement pension. This means that refugees who have not lived many, many years in Denmark will spend the last few years in poverty. There are two main arguments on the part of the government for these three bills. One is that it will get people to work more quickly if you make them poorer. It is, of course, such an argument that the right is in general. I think it is questionable, even when it comes to unemployed Danes and so on, but now we are talking about refugees. As I said, Argument No. 1 on the part of the government that it will get people to work faster. And it has to be said: here we are talking about pensioners, that is, people who do not have to work because they are too old to work. So that argument falls completely on the ground. The second argument is that it will make people stay away, i.e. to apply to a country other than Denmark if you provide low benefits. I have not in any way been able to get the government to provide any research evidence of this claim, and certainly no evidence whatsoever of the link between the amount of the pension or the possibility of obtaining a retirement pension and then which country you choose. The Minister for Employment also said very clearly at the consultation we had on Tuesday: no, the government and the minister cannot document it or have no experience to suggest that the size of the national pension or the possibility of obtaining a national pension is important for which country refugees choose to go. The UNHCR, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, actually believes that this proposal is in breach of the refugee convention. The Institute for Human Rights has also said in the past that they believe that legislation contrary to the 1951 Convention on Refugees is in fact being adopted. A large number of organisations also reject this proposal with the argument that it will create poverty. And poverty is about the dumbest thing you can create if you want to have good integration. A main appeal from us, on the part of the Enhedslisten, in relation to the three legislative proposals we are dealing with today is precisely that one simply shoots oneself in the foot, one tightens oneself if the wish is good integration. Because if we place people in poverty, we isolate them and push them away from society; we push them further away from the labour market. And for the people involved in this proposal, the labour market is not an option at all because it concerns older citizens. In addition, I believe that this proposal will lead to a huge bureaucracy in the municipalities. Because it will be the case, as the bill says, that if the individual elderly citizen is in a situation where he cannot pay the rent or sits so tight in it that he cannot get food on the table or pay his medicine or whatever it might be, then he will have the opportunity to seek single benefits. I fear that this will result in a very high level of bureaucracy, where our case managers around the municipalities need to spend a lot of time sitting around giving individual benefits and dealing with the individual's economy, rather than saying that these people must of course have a pension that you can live on. So that is to say, I, too, have doubts about the savings in this. On the contrary, I believe that the bureaucratic costs, if we may say so, must be very, very high. We are, of course, voting against this bill. And, as I said, I simply do not believe that the argument is valid. It does not make sense to say that people should be motivated to work by reducing the benefit in the case of older people who just cannot or must not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821100610	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Does anyone wish to speak further? There isn't. That concludes the debate. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821100631	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821100659	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821100718	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821100752	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821100814	Thank you. This is the second proposal in the series of three, which is about reducing the conditions for refugees here in Denmark. Once again, I have to say in general terms: we simply cannot say on the one hand that we want to strengthen integration and, on the other hand, place people in poverty. That will be the consequence of the legislative proposals we are discussing today. I would like to make a number of comments. The first is about the Danish test bonus that the government is proposing. When it is worth mentioning, it is because when the government has been criticized for the fact that these laws will lead to poverty, it has replied: Well people can pass a Danish test, namely Danish test 2, and then get this bonus. To that there is, of course, to say that just over a third of the population is 34-39 per cent. It's not something they choose for themselves. So, when you come to Denmark, you are assessed by the language centre: What level of Danish education do you have? Once you have completed the Danish education at that level, passed the test, you are not entitled to more Danish education. So for just over a third it will not be possible to get to the level required for you to receive this bonus. Not least the people who come here with alphabets other than the Latin are placed at Danish education 1 level. The government refers to what is called FVU, preparatory adult education as an alternative. It appears from a written reply that I have received that when refugees have passed Level 1 and are not entitled to more language training, they are not entitled to a new test, they can get to this FVU system. The problem is that it requires the municipality to accept and want to pay for the special course. And by the way, this preparatory adult education isn't even made for refugees in this situation. In other words, a large proportion of the refugees who come here will actually be cut off from this bonus. The second point I would like to make is that refugees who have children and who are on integration allowance during the first time in this country will have an extremely low level of availability because they do not receive family allowances. The amount for a single person with three children will be DKK 5,300. a month and not the 14,500 DKK shown in the government's fact sheet... the facts in quotation marks should be said to have been dated July. There will be so much children who will live in poverty, contrary to what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister, promised during the election campaign. Paragraph 3: We still lack evidence that asylum seekers choose countries according to the level of benefits. The Enhedslisten has referred to researchers who note that there is no statistically significant correlation between country and level of performance. I have not been able to get the government to refute that research or point to a research which suggests something else. Point 4: The employment impact of the start-up aid was extremely limited 14 per cent, as I recall. I mean, 14 percent. extra came to work, and the rest just got poorer. And when I say "just," it kind of doesn't matter, but it certainly doesn't matter. This led to severe, massive social problems. In addition to the fact that it is a problem for the individual, it is really, really expensive for Danish society to send people into this type of poverty. On top of that, the draft law we are discussing today is that this low level of benefit, which is intended to motivate refugees to work, also applies to those refugees who have been assessed by Danish case workers not to be able to work, i.e. those who are not ready for the labour market. Then it doesn't make sense at all. On the one hand, they say: we are doing a low performance because it will make people get to work. On the other hand, it is said that this must also apply to those people whom we ourselves have assessed will not be able to work. Again: The result of this will for the vast majority be poverty with associated massive social problems. It is not only a problem for the individual citizen who is exposed to it here, but to such an extent a problem for the whole of Danish society, because integration problems are affecting us all. Point 5: So, they say directly that the consequence of this may be that the risk of radicalisation is increasing. It is again a huge problem for Danish society. Paragraph 6: The Minister has referred several times to the fact that if refugees really get into trouble because of this very low level of service, there will be a possibility of receiving special support for high housing costs. What the Minister has just not referred to in those answers is that the government intends to set a ceiling on the aid which can be given to particularly high housing costs. Paragraph 7: The bill has been met with a broad front of criticism of discrimination, of poverty, of anti-integration. The criticism comes among other things. from the Social Advisor Association, Amnesty International, Department of Human Rights, Save the Children, LO, FTF, Education League, Danish People's Information Council, Children's Council, Danish Refugee Aid, De Danske Sprogcentrer, Danish Institute v Torture, Red Cross, Council of Social Vulnerables, AOF Denmark and Legal Policy Association. If you are in any way interested in good integration, if you think it is a problem when refugees end up in crime, when refugees end up unable to get the Danish language, when refugees do not come out and become part of Danish society, then it is simply a crying nonsense to vote for this bill, because this bill will so much increase the risk of integration problems rather than do the opposite. I find that deeply worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101449	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Sir. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment or is it a rapporteur's speech? It doesn't matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101458	Thank you. I would like to ask Enhedslisten why, when you come to Denmark, you should have made everything available free of charge. In other words, if you are going to have to get up and get an extra bonus from the public sector, and you need language training to get there now, then it absolutely has to be provided free of charge. Why does it have to be free? Why is it a law of nature for Enhedslisten that because you come to Denmark and you have been granted a residence permit because someone has taken you so seriously that they have looked at your application and you end up staying here, so you have to open up to the welfare community? Why does Enhedslisten think, for example? Not that you have to earn something before you can get it? Is that not also the case for socialists?
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101534	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101536	Sir. Martin Henriksen takes up Danish teaching and asks: Why should it be available free of charge? In other words, when refugees come here, why should they have access to Danish education? Don't they have to pay for it? If we introduced the principle that we said to the refugees who came here and were recognised as refugees, that is. that the Danish authorities had said that you are in danger, your life is in danger, we will not send you back, because then you risk being killed, therefore you are legally resident in Denmark, you are entitled to protection in Denmark, that they themselves will have to pay for their Danish education, then the first thing would happen is that most people would not get Danish education. There are not many refugees who come with a lot of money. Most have either lost everything they own and have, or have sold it to find a way to pay to get out of e.g. Syria on the run from the murders and rapes and tortures of the Islamic State. Would it benefit Danish society that there were a lot of refugees in Denmark who did not have access to Danish education and thus did not learn the Danish language? No. That would be a huge problem. That would be a huge problem for all of us. This would mean that these people's ability to enter the labour market and become self-sufficient would be even worse than it is today. It is not easy to get here in advance and enter the Danish labour market. So I think that this is about the stupidest thing you could do if you want integration, that is to say to deprive the refugees of the right to Danish education. As far as I remember, at some point the Danish People's Party had a proposal or perhaps just a thought that people from other countries could only speak Danish on the street. Many refugees would then have to be silent when they walked around the Danish streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101716	We just have to keep to our speaking time. Here you go, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101718	That was a nice speech. But I just want to make it clear that refugees still have the right to free Danish education. I mean, this bill doesn't really change that. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen will then have even more free Danish education. That is the question, and we then say that they will get something in advance. There is no reason to keep doing more things for free in Danish society. But I did not get an answer to the question I asked: why does Enhedslisten think it is unreasonable to say that people who come to Denmark, for example. must work for a number of years or be here for a number of years to earn the right to all the other things that people whose families have been here for generations have? Why is that unreasonable? I just don't understand. That's a very good principle, and then we'll also learn these people if they end up staying here. We'd like to send them back, but if they end up staying here, you actually have to make an effort to get something out of your life in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101805	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101806	When the Refugee Convention was drawn up in 1951, a number of countries in the world came together and said: the way in which refugees were treated in the context of World War II was unforgivable, that was unacceptable. Common rules had to be drawn up to protect people on the run. We have seen that it is not always the case that the state in which a person lives treats a person well. Unfortunately, we also saw how a number of countries rejected the refugees who came from Germany, with the devastating consequences that they had caused. That is why a refugee convention was drawn up and said that if people are on the run, we must ensure that they are treated properly. It is not a free choice on their part that they have been forced to flee. So I very much support the fact that we take our responsibility to protect people on the run. Not least for the sake of Danish society, it is so reasonable that we take the integration task seriously, including the task of ensuring that they learn Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101907	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go to the rapporteur's line. The first is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821101929	Thank you, Madam President. I have been a priest for 35 years, which is why I am actually forced to believe in miracles, and that is why I am speaking today. There is another reason for this. After all, at first reading we had not yet received a hearing response. That is what we have got here at second reading. Those consultation responses all question the whole foundation on which this bill is based, namely that if you make a very low level of integration, people will get into the labour market. I would have liked the government's evidence that people are actually entering the labour market to be as thorough as the evidence, or at least the assumptions we see in the consultation answers, that the low level of integration benefit will not get people into the labour market. I've almost only heard the evidence from the government that the government doesn't believe that. The government disagrees with everything the hearings say. The government says that people will necessarily enter the Danish labour market at the moment they lower the integration benefit. Now the government is not assuming that it is one hundred per cent of the refugees who enter the labour market, so there will certainly be a great many people who will encounter what all the consultation answers point out and which I also pointed out at first reading, but which the consultation answers now support, namely that it will be very difficult to integrate refugees if they do not enter the labour market, which is not to be assumed that one hundred per cent of the refugees do. Ghetto formations will be created because the refugees will only be able to live in quite specific places with the very low performance. The refugees will not be able to attend Danish education. They will simply not be able to afford to pay a bus ticket. They'll have to spend all their time finding the cheapest food. Not even food in supermarkets, which is very cheap, they will be able to buy for the money they get, and this will particularly affect their children. The children will live in poverty. They will not be able to afford to go to children's birthdays, because they cannot buy gifts for the other children; they will not be able to afford any leisure activities; they will not be able to afford to go to camp schools; they will not be able to afford proper nutrition for the children, and so the children will not have such a good opportunity to enter higher education because their memory and ability to concentrate will be permanently damaged. All these things, the government says, are not going to happen because people enter the labour market. It is thus an advantage for children, because when parents enter the labour market, they are able to afford to give children all the things they need. But there is only one question: if you cannot count on a hundred percent of refugees entering the labour market, and I do not think the government will even expect all refugees to enter the labour market, what are you going to do about marginalised children? What are we going to do about the parents who will live in poverty? How do we intend to integrate those people who do not enter the labour market? I would really like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102303	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask you if Mr. Kevin's gonna be okay. Marcus Knuth marked for a short remark. For then the rapporteur should be kind enough to stay on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102318	Thank you very much. I would like to hear from Mrs Sandbæk whether she agrees that integration is best done in the labour market, including whether she is aware of the Rockwool Foundation's research manager, Torben Tranæs,'s opinion on start-up aid, which reminds us of the new integration benefit, and which is that if you look at the purely employment part, you have to say that it is a success that so many more people have entered the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102352	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102353	Thank you. I'd like to take the last question about the Rockwool Foundation first. The Rockwool Foundation expressly pointed out that in the first two years, virtually no one entered the labour market. On the other hand, there were women who left the labour market and who never returned to the labour market again, thus marginalising the group of immigrant women who, according to their traditions, already find it difficult to enter the labour market. After four years, there was a slight increase of 9%. of those who entered the labour market. So I think I can use the Rockwool Foundation's investigation to make the opposite argument of what Mr. Magnus Heunicke uses. The question then is whether I agree that it is good to be integrated through the labour market. I fully agree with that, and that is why I would have liked the government to have come up with quite different proposals to get refugees into the labour market than to reduce a benefit that was already low, that is to say, to a poverty benefit. After all, there are many things you can do to get people into the labour market. Among other things: they have very good experience at Bornholm in distributing the refugees. When they go to refugee camps, you can determine their competence and send them to where the competences are. Today, the refugees are being sent to a municipality where they are not being sought after at all. You could do extra training quickly, and you can do many, many other things to integrate refugees into the labour market. And I will personally try to make a suggestion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102525	Thank you. And that's not sir. Magnus Heunicke, but sir... Marcus Knuth. Here you go for the next brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102529	Thank you. I am pleased that we agree that integration is best done in the labour market. Then it is also worth noting in relation to the start-up aid that with this new integration benefit there are other measures such as as a language bonus to make it even more attractive to learn Danish and enter the labour market. So if you look at more contemporary recommendations in relation to the Rockwool Foundation, you can see that we have the Danish Employers' Association that has been out recommending this bill as something that will increase integration and something that will get more into the labour market. I would like to know whether Mrs Ulla Sandbæk is aware of the recommendation of the Danish Employers' Association.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102611	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102612	Yes, I am very familiar with that. I was one of those who recommended that we have some experts called into committee. The Danish Employers' Association was one of them. I listened to their arguments, and I wondered why their argument was that working should be worthwhile. That is not what is at stake here, i.e. whether it is worthwhile or not worthwhile to work. What is at stake is whether a refugee who comes to this country can enter the labour market, whether there is a demand on the labour market for the skills that the refugee brings in, and whether it is realistic for a refugee to enter the labour market. So that the fact that it is worthwhile to work is used as a main argument for this being a good proposal, I simply do not understand at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102657	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102707	Thank you for the floor. I very much agree with the previous rapporteurs. I think that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen went through a number of the details very well. The whole logic of this bill is obviously that refugees come to Denmark to piss off society. That is also what is expressed in Mr Beyer de Ryke's motion for a resolution. Martin Henriksen's question, as I see it, is that refugees come to receive Danish benefits. And I think that this debate lacks a distinction between refugees, including those whom we recognise as refugees and others who travel from their country for better conditions, and which we all know very well that this is not about, because we do not grant them asylum. This proposal for a lower so-called integration grant will lead to poverty, isolation and marginalisation of the groups, the refugees who receive the grant and whom I think we all want to have the opportunity to return to their country, but which we also hope we can get to work when they are here. Because in all respects it will make them better able to contribute, should they be given the opportunity to return to those countries which are currently devastated by war. So I and the Radical Left are of the opinion that this service is not about integration, although it is actually called an integration benefit. It is about avoiding it and marginalising the people who are going to receive it. So I think it is a mockery to call it an integration benefit, and that is why we are, of course, voting against it in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821102939	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Radical Left. Then there is a new rapporteur. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821103003	Thank you for the floor. We will also be voting against this proposal in the SF. However, we think something has happened since the first reading. Perhaps the first reading also came a little suddenly for some of us after the parliamentary elections, and we would like to put a few words on some of the things we think have come forward since then. First of all, this is called an integration benefit, but we do not really think it is. We are very much in favour of successful integration in Denmark, and at the consultation I heard the Minister for Integration say that she does. That is why I hope that she will be able to change her mind. There are some things in this proposal that we think are problematic. Firstly, there is the whole human part: that this will create increased poverty in Denmark. We think this is a pity, and we think it is a terrible thing for the people who are coming. This means that children may suddenly not be able to go to sports. This means that parents need to consider whether to spend money on a flight suit or to have a good evening meal. That's one part. We do not believe this in creating good integration. The other part is this language thing. For SF it is absolutely crucial that when people come to the country, they learn Danish quickly, so they quickly learn the language. Therefore, we also think that it is absolutely essential that they can get an education, that they can get this test, and that they can, like, prove that they can Danish, so that they can also get this language bonus. It is also one of the arguments put forward by the Minister that people can live under normal conditions, not poverty. But it has come to light since the first reading that this language bonus can only be obtained if you take language test 2 and, for a very large number of people, they start language test 1 and then they have to pay the many lessons themselves if they want to pass the two. It's a problem when you halve their performance at the same time. This we think will mean that there are a lot of people who do not give priority to their Danish education. There are a lot of people who cannot give priority to their Danish education because they have to give priority, for example. their children or ordinary living conditions. So what was supposed to be an integration benefit really means that people come to the country and lose their opportunity to learn Danish, at least having a reduced opportunity to learn Danish. Then there's this argument that they have to learn Danish in companies. I can be a little critical of that statement that there should be just enough jobs. I myself come from a municipality where we've been trying to get a lot of refugees out to work, but it's just hard. They can't just go into a business. There are also many Danes who cannot get jobs. Do we then believe that people who come from war and distress can just walk right into a business and say: I'm ready, you can just take me and I can do it all? So the whole prerequisite for this is that they can just step into a company and there are those jobs, I can also question. Nor do I think there is the answer to where those jobs should come from. But, of course, we would like to help to create good cooperation between companies and municipalities in the future, so I hope we can have a dialogue on that. The next part, which is really worrying, is that this integration benefit also means that refugees can hardly afford to pay their homes. Firstly, it is not worthy of the people who come to the country that they should go and consider whether they can pay their homes at all, but secondly, it poses the country's municipalities with a huge problem. Today in MetroXpress on the way in the S-train I read that there are simply so many municipalities where they live in hotels, and I also know again from my own municipality that right now you are wondering if they can pay a rent at all. They've got half their income, and they're gonna have to pay a rent, where are we gonna put them? It has to be in some apartments they can afford to pay. We have a few options. There are the vulnerable residential areas where they are not really to be placed or placed, because that is bad for integration. But the municipalities can't afford anything else. So right now there are a lot of municipalities that really want to promote integration, and are in a hurry, because they don't know how to afford these many homes, and that means that they sit and think about putting them into residential areas. I would like to go into dialogue with the Minister for Integration and ask: does it also believe that integration benefits people in residential areas that already have problems? Because that's gonna be the consequence of this. So, overall, on behalf of the SF, I would like to make myself available for a dialogue on how we can ensure that there are housing for these people, how we help the municipalities, because I also heard the Minister in the press opening up to that. I would like to enter into a dialogue on how we can make sure that these people learn Danish quickly so that they have greater conditions for entering businesses, but as things stand right now, we cannot support this benefit and this bill, because this integration benefit is not an integration benefit. As far as I'm concerned, it's an exclusion benefit right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821103440	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821103452	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-16, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821103521	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? It's better to push the button than to whiff. Sir. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821103539	Thank you. I'd like to apologize, but there's been a new button since I was in here last eight years ago. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). This bill has, of course, been at first reading, but there has been a debate on the legislative proposal between the first reading and the second reading that we have today. What has come out is what became clear at first reading, namely that this is a bill with a clear anti-social profile that redistributes from bottom to top. After all, it is the SOSU assistant, it is the warehouse worker, it is the shop assistant who has to pay through the tax ticket, in order for people with higher incomes to have renovations or cleaning assistance. It is therefore an anti-social scheme. That is also the case, and it was clear at first reading that 80%. of those who use this scheme are homeowners and that the deduction has a significant social impact, because it is so that among the 3.5 million Danes with the lowest incomes only 8 out of 100 use the deduction, but among the 1,000 richest Danes it is 4 out of 10. So the social battle side is strong. It is also the case that the green element of the agreement, which has also become clear in the debate between the first and second readings, is very small. It was the case that in 2014 it was only around 30%. or less than 30% of the deduction for energy improvements. The interesting thing has happened in the debate that, between the first reading that has been and the second reading that we have today, the Minister of Taxation has actually been out admitting that it has been an expensive and inefficient system. The tax minister has done so both in the press and in the consultation which has been held this week. I think we could actually pursue that in the Chamber today. After all, this is the day when a regional agreement has been concluded which requires, if the economy is to be linked, that employees have to run even stronger than they already do. In this situation, the government chooses to say: we want to spend 1 billion. kr. in an antisocial, non-green and job-inefficient scheme that creates incredibly few jobs. It is at the same time that there is not enough money, the government seems, to give priority to the public health services of all of us. Frankly, I find it very shameful, especially when the tax minister has been out to admit that it is an expensive and inefficient regime, that the tax minister then does not comment today on why the government continues to maintain support for this scheme when it does not create jobs when it is not green and when it is antisocial. I think it would be nice if the government, if we want to continue to maintain the support, here from the speaking chair of the Folketing, said clearly: yes, it is expensive and ineffective; yes, it does not make sense; yes, we could spend the money much more sensibly elsewhere, but we still maintain it, because... and that is where we would like the tax minister to come up with an explanation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821103918	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821103939	No amendments have been tabled. I need to know if anyone wants to speak. As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821104010	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821104045	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't. I suggest that the proposal goes straight to the second and last reading and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150821104128	The Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed members of the Folketing of Jacob Jensen and Jakob Ellemann-Jensen as members for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Inger Røjberg, who have been appointed Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Integration and Housing Minister respectively. In addition, the Radical Left has informed me that they have appointed a member of the Folketing Morten Østergaard as a member of the Board of Regulators for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Camilla Hersom, who has resigned from the Folketing. The Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that it per. 28 July 2015 has appointed a member of the Danish Parliament, Søren Gade, as a state auditor, instead of Kristian Jensen, who per year. 28 June 2015 has been appointed Minister, and Jakob Ellemann-Jensen as deputy instead of Inger Nøjberg, who also per. 28 June 2015 has been appointed Minister. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Wednesday 26 August 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00 I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
