ParlaMint-DK_20151110130004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: the Minister of Taxation (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No L 45 (Proposal for a law amending the law on exchange rate gains, the law on equations, the pension income tax law, the State Tax Act and various other laws. Bill No. L 46 (Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Control Act, the Labour Contributions Act, the Tax Tax Act, the Equalisation Act and the Pension Taxation Act. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130032	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130100	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That does not seem to be the case and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130123	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 6 (ALT), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 10 (EL). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130212	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, here you go to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And I can see that it is not the usual rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130244	Thank you. I had actually thought that the Minister for Defence or the Minister for Foreign Affairs would take the floor, and in this context I would have asked them an important question. In the Enhedslisten, we want to strengthen the fight against ISIL, but our background to being against this proposal is that we fear that it will not work as intended. Unfortunately, the Iraqi Government in Baghdad is deeply oppressive of its own people and is repeatedly committing gross abuse, and this creates a breeding ground for extremism that gives birth to ISIL. That is why Denmark should not give military support to the repressive government in Iraq, and that is why Enhedslisten voted against the deployment of a Danish radar contribution to Iraq. But when I am a little puzzled that the ministers are not taking the floor, this is because there is also a big question: what is the actual radar contribution that the government is proposing to send to Iraq and on which the Folketing will shortly be voting, really going to contribute in Iraq? The question is, of course, who gets the information that the Danish radar will collect over Iraq and Syria. We know from the defence minister's reply to the Danish Parliament that Iranian and Syrian aircraft fly over the airspace that the Danish radar must monitor, and we know from the defence minister's reply to the Danish Parliament that the Iraqi Government is close allies with the Iranian priesthood, and we know that the Iranian priesthood is close allies of the Syrian dictator Assad. But we have simply not been able to find out in committee whether the Danish radar will collect information that will end up in the hands of the Iraqi authorities. For if they end up in the hands of the Iraqi authorities, there may be a danger that they will also end up in the hands of the close allies of the Iraqi authorities in the Iranian priesthood. So I had hoped that the Minister for Defence could come to the floor today and guarantee that the Iraqi authorities will not, of course, take part in the information that the Danish radar will collect, and I would urge the Minister for Defence to take the floor. I would urge him to take the floor because it is of course important to clarify with the Folketing. It has not been possible to get an answer to this question in committee and, frankly, I find it worrying. I think it should be the case that there should be no doubt as to where the information collected by Denmark can end up, especially because we have really, really good reason to believe that they will end up with the Iraqi authorities, yes, they could also end up with the Iranian priesthood. I think we all know that the situation in Syria and Iraq is very, very complicated right now, and I think we all agree that ISIL must of course be combated. But it is of course for us in the Enhedslisten and I also hope it is for the majority of the Danish Parliament to know whether the military effort that Denmark is making in this context actually contributes to the purpose, or whether it is going to exacerbate the situation in the very complicated conflict that is currently taking place. So I hope that the Minister for Defence will come to the floor so that we can clarify the matter before we vote in this Chamber in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130629	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no brief comments. Does anyone else want to speak? The Secretary of Defense does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130637	Thank you. As was also debated at first reading ■ where the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten was not present ■ where this particular question was also turned, and it has also been in an answer to questions from the Danish Parliament during the committee work, it is of course a question of having radar data with a radar contribution showing a snapshot of the airspace being monitored, why access to them is required in real time in order for them to be used. It is not enough, therefore, that you can just see the picture, but you have to have continuous online access in order to be able to use this information from the airspace for something, and the data that then comes from the Danish radar contribution is sent to the American control and alert centre via secure lines. What is also stated is that the Centre has established special procedures and technical measures to prevent data from spreading outside the coalition, and it is the understanding of the defence that the Americans are even very restrictive in terms of who gets access to the overall data image in real time. So there is hardly any reason to believe that online access to radar data outside the coalition will be provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130816	Thank you. Now I was in the situation that I attended the UN General Assembly in New York, but fortunately it is the case that the discussions in this Chamber are recorded on video and that you can find them on the Danish Parliament's website. I have done so, as I have carefully studied the answers from the Minister for Defence, and what the Minister for Defence is saying now is what the Minister for Defence has said on a regular basis. What is only interesting about the defence minister's answer is that he does not answer whether the information that Denmark is involved in collecting ends up in the hands of the Iraqi authorities. So I would like the Minister for Defence to give a clear guarantee that the Iraqi authorities will not have access to the information that Denmark is helping to collect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130901	A radar helps to provide an overview of what is happening in the airspace here and now, and in order to be able to use that image for something you must have online access here and now. It is the case that the contribution that comes from the Danish radar is part of the American Control and Warning Centre, where a total image of the airspace is broken together, also with contributions from other units, and it is clear that no one other than the coalition will have online access to the real image that arises, also with contributions from the Danish radar.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130950	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110130952	Well, I'm gonna try again. I ask: is it the case that the overall picture to which Denmark is helping to gather information, i.e. that the information will be provided if, in a few moments' time, the majority in this Chamber is pressed on the green button will be in the hands of the Iraqi authorities? Yes or no? Can the Secretary of Defense guarantee yes or no that it won't happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131016	Those snapshots aren't shared with anyone but the coalition.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131022	No one else has asked for short remarks... Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten has just asked for a short comment at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131030	I just want to ask the Secretary of Defense if Iraq is in the coalition.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131036	What we are told is that the Americans are very concerned about having completely restrictive and special procedures which ensure that no one else has access to these images. That is why I would say that the coalition also requires that those aerial images be used for something, and there is my clear impression that, as a matter of fact, there is no such thing at present. are Iraqis in the skies, if that's what you're preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131114	Sir. Søndergaard for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131118	Yes, it was a very long answer, an attempt to answer a very short question. It was the large floor violin that had been brought out there. In other words, what is quite clear to all the members of the Folketing is that the information that comes, the overall picture that is obtained by means of, among other things. Danish help is passed on to Iraq, and Iraq passes it on to Iran and to the Syrian regime. That's what's gonna stand up after this discussion. And then the Members of Parliament can vote as they please. As far as the Unity List is concerned, it is clear that we do not support either the Iranian priesthood or the Syrian dictatorship. Thank you for your answer, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131201	I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131204	Thank you, Minister. There are no further comments. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131211	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 16 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131245	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131318	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110131347	At second reading, three amendments have been tabled to the draft law on the conversion of the legal reserve into an optional system. The first amendment concerns a change in the title of the draft law, so that it becomes more consistent with the facts, so that it becomes clear that what is at issue is the irrevocable abolition of the reservation of law in favour of a breach of Article 20 of the Constitution, which means that a majority of the Folketing can give up sovereignty on behalf of Denmark. This amendment from the Enhedslisten is of course supported by the Danish People's Party. Then follow two slightly more distinctive suggestions. First of all, allow me to dwell on the proposal put forward by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, since it is my impression that Amendment No. 2 submitted by Enhedslisten was born of this. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has asked for the word to be inserted after the act, and in this connection the comments then attempt to clarify the political agreement of 10 December 2014 and to explain the Prime Minister's difficulties in obtaining a majority view that possible future Danish accession to the EU's common asylum and immigration policy is the subject of a referendum. It is a view which, according to the comments, is supported by the Left, the Social Democrats and the Conservatives. Basically, however, these comments have nothing to do with the proposed change, as in absolutely nothing. If you are going to put it nicely, it is rather unbelievable that the government is now starting a practice of putting pretexts into legal texts and then writing profanity about what the government is now concerned about. It does not make it any less unsatisfying that legislative work, in which the law notes belong, cannot in itself be binding or binding, as is stated in the legal literature. So one element rather detached from the proposal is inserted here, because the government has become afraid of the outcome of the referendum. This is an element which is therefore without any kind of binding or obligation on the parties that vote for it. In other words, it is utterly worthless. The Danish People's Party has of course indicated that we cannot support that amendment. Then Enhedslisten, inspired by the Foreign Minister's ingenuity, has decided to make the Minister's art by describing, in reverse, the actual implications of the adoption of the bill in a subsequent referendum. This is practically done by inserting the synonym in place of the menu. In view of the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has then given the ball up and that the Danish People's Party also shares the opinion expressed in the comments on the Enhedslisten's proposal, we hereby announce that we support the proposal. The reservation was introduced in 1993 after the Danes had rejected the Maastricht Treaty in the 1992 referendum. In 1992, the same parties which today advocate the abolition of the reservation of law, with one exception, recommended the Danes to accept the Maastricht Treaty. Had the Danes followed that advice, Denmark was today part of the EU's common asylum and immigration policy, and Denmark, like a number of Eastern European countries, could have been voted down when the EU countries decided some time ago to distribute 160,000 refugees and could have been forced to participate in it. If the jalots succeed in persuading the Danes to get rid of the legal reservation, the same parties can easily ship Danish asylum and immigration policy to Brussels. We must remember what drives these parties: EU enthusiasm beyond all borders. And that is why there is no reason to doubt that these parties will take advantage of the opportunity they are given to hand over Danish sovereignty to Brussels. The constitution is quite clear when it comes to surrendering sovereignty. Access to it is provided for in Paragraph 20 of the Constitution, which states that, firstly, the surrender of sovereignty can only take place to a certain extent and, secondly, either the majority of five sixths in the Folketing or the majority of a referendum require it. The provision in section 20 of the Constitution will now have a majority in the Folketing that the Danes exchange an authority for not the Folketing, no, to a committee of the Folketing, namely the European Committee, in which 12-15 people can decide in future whether Denmark should surrender sovereignty to the EU. There is certainly some way from a referendum where all entitled Danes are heard, to a late afternoon in the Committee on European Affairs, where 12-15 people sit around a meeting table shelling and waltzing with Danish sovereignty. In future, therefore, the surrender of sovereignty will not only be a matter for the people. It will even be removed from a parliamentary resolution with first, second and third readings and instead be decided by the European Committee. We must remember that this is a one-way road towards Brussels. If Denmark has first given up sovereignty, we cannot get it back. Nor can we choose a new Parliament to reverse the decision. If the European Union has first acquired legislative competence, we cannot withdraw it. The 2014 European Parliament elections sent a clear signal. Danes want less EU, not more EU. Support for the British ambition for slimmer European cooperation has been shown in polling after polling, and yet, for more of the European Union, the 'yes' parties are bugging on. Yes, the parties are trying to make this vote appear as if it were a vote for or against Europol. If the 'yes' parties would have had a vote on Europol, they could have printed a referendum on Europol alone without the authority to give up sovereignty in the fields of justice, asylum and aliens in the future. But the Japanese have wanted to use Europol's transition to supranationalism as a breach to get rid of the Danes' legal reservations. It is dishonest play, just as it is dishonest play, to cast doubt on whether Denmark can remain in Europol after a 'no' vote, because Denmark can, without any doubt, do so by restricting the opt-in system to Europol alone. This is not a proposal that serves Denmark's interests. It is a proposal that serves the majority of the Folketing, which is more concerned with becoming a member of the core of the European Union than with defending the interests of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132013	Two have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go. It is as rapporteur). As rapporteur! Well, then I'll see if Mr. Knox... Rasmus Jarlov has also asked to speak as rapporteur. All right, then no one has asked for short remarks. Thank you. Then the next sir. Søren Søndergaard as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132046	Thank you, President. I've been looking forward to this day. It is an important day, because today it is becoming clear whether what drives the government and the parties to the agreements, the yes parties, is a real desire to be part of Europol and a number of other supranational acts, or whether it is really about the government taking Europol hostage with the aim of abolishing the people's EU exception and, instead, having the opportunity to transfer an unlimited amount of power for the future to the European Union in the field of justice without having to ask the people and without having to change it again by a newly elected Parliament. These are the two aspects we have to choose from today. In short, is this about some concrete EU laws that the yes side would like to be included in, or is this about pushing people aside and undermining democracy? In order to clarify this, the Enhedslisten has tabled a very simple amendment, namely an amendment which means that those who vote in favour of it and all in the Chamber have the opportunity to promise that in future they will only transfer more sovereignty to the European Union, that is to say. power to a significant extent, either if there is a broad majority in the Folketing for it, i.e. Five sixths, or in a referendum. If the 'yes' votes in favour of this amendment, then the next three weeks will change completely. We can then concentrate on discussing the advantages and disadvantages of the 22 legislative acts, of Europol and of the so-called PNR monitoring register. Because then it's the people we're discussing, not the future. But if the 'yes' vote is 'no', it is simply a confession. Then it is not about the specific legal acts. Then it is about the fact that the 'yes' parties want to put the people out of control in terms of EU policy and have the right to leave the EU itself with unlimited power in the area of legal policy. That is why this day and this vote are so crucial for the next three weeks and for the future. For what is decided exactly in a moment when the vote is to be taken is what is false and what is the facts of that whole vote. We are not the only ones who have tabled an amendment, but I have just justified ours. Amendments have also been tabled by the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Conservatives, and I also have some comments to make on them, but I expect that at least the Left and the Social Democrats will table their amendments so that we can have a discussion on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132411	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen of the Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132432	Thank you. In connection with the committee's examination of L 29, the Radical Left said that we would make our final position on Amendment No. Three have at second reading, and I would say that we are voting in favour of the amendment. That is just what I want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132453	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132503	Following on from the rapporteur's speech by the Radical Left, we have also indicated that we will explain our position here at second reading. Like the Radical Left, we are voting in favour of this amendment. One might say that the agreement that has been made is not ours, but nevertheless we think it is right to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132529	There are two who have asked for brief comments to Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen. The first is sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132536	Thank you to the SF rapporteur for taking the floor and presenting the party's position. There's one question I have about this, actually I have two. The one question I have is: what is the real reason why the SF did not already explain in the report where the SF was in relation to this proposal? Well, it is a proposal that has been known for a long time there is nothing new in it so I am sure that both the SF and the Radical Left have had the opportunity to take a position. What are some considerations that have made the SF feel that they should wait until the last moment to take a position? The second question I have is what it really means. Should the proposal be understood in such a way that the five parties to the agreement agree that a referendum should be held, or is it the case that a majority of those parties can issue a referendum? So, what is the specific meaning of the proposal that has been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132638	On the first question, it is well known, as I also said, that this is not our agreement. And, like the Radical Left, we wanted asylum policy to be included in the elections we were going to have, and that is why we were a little surprised, if I may say so, that, apart from the agreement that was made, we made this proposal from the Prime Minister during the opening debate. But we are still part of, if I may say so, the majority behind this, which is why we have felt it was right to be loyal to it, and that is why we are voting in favour; but we would like to point out that we are not part of this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132724	Sir. Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132726	I understand that, that is, it was not part of the original agreement, but is it still not the case that the SF has been considering the possibility of abolishing the reservation of rights in the area of asylum and refugees without a referendum? And that is why it should be a relatively narrow matter to answer when the proposal was that if the reservation in the area of asylum and immigration was to be abolished or more precisely: if it were to be adopted then there would be a referendum. Then I would like to remind you, too, sir. Holger K. Nielsen on the second question, which is about what it really means. In other words, does it require unanimity in order to issue such a referendum, or is there a right of veto?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132814	Well, it is the case that, as it is screwed up here, the parties indicate that they will use their right of veto and in this context use the right of veto to ensure that there is a referendum. That is what it is all about. It cannot go further unless there is a referendum. That's how it's screwed up, and that's kind of logical, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132836	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132846	Thank you to the rapporteur for running. I see the last answer as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has given here, so that there is a right of veto, also on the issue of issuing a referendum. Is that what I'm supposed to understand? No, but then I have to be enlightened. In any case, the rapporteur must explain to me what is happening with the agreement made by the parties. I have seen it as providing each other with a right of veto on the question of whether Denmark should be included in the EU's border controls and asylum and immigration policy. That's right, isn't it? And can we just get an answer to this: is there a right of veto or not on the question of a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132932	No, but the referendum comes on top of the veto. That's how it's screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132937	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110132940	Thank you, but I actually got it right. Then the right of veto, which has always been in the agreement between the five parties, is completely unabated. Will Mr. Holger K. Nielsen then answers the question I am asking now: is it not, then, a little thicker, or perhaps even direct, to mislead the people when you go out and argue that they should vote 'yes' for the refugees? For the agreement that has been made means that the Left can forever block Denmark from joining the EU's border controls and asylum and immigration policy. So, isn't that rubbing a little thick?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133026	Now I don't understand the question at all, because the Enhedslisten should be happy about that. There we are in complete agreement with the Enhedslisten, who is constantly outside this and who has rejected any European solution to this problem. So, sir... Finn Sørensen is happy. So I do not understand the background to that question at all. But to the extent that the issue must be taken seriously, I would say that I do not know what the Left wants. You have to ask the Left about that. I could imagine the Left getting smarter at some point. It happens to some people, and it could happen to Enhedslisten at some point in connection with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133103	There are three more who have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133110	Thank you. The reason I am asking is because five days ago the media read that SF's EU parliamentarian Mrs Margrete Auken said: 'That it is a hoax when Løkke claims that voting on the reservation of law has nothing to do with EU refugee policy'. It is of course interesting that she says so and that then the SF goes down and votes in favour of this proposal now that the right of veto is placed with the Left in the future. Does the SF think that this referendum is about refugee policy or not about refugee policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133150	The Enhedslisten should be happy if that is the case, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen says. But my goodness, what is this all about? What I am saying is that the European Union's asylum policy is not included in this vote. This is not part of this vote. However, there are other factors that also affect the EU's refugee policy: the possibility that we can continue to discuss it with the other EU countries that we would like to, as Enhedslisten will not, unfortunately, because it does not matter, it is just Denmark that can solve this problem, but there is a yes, then the possibility that we can continue to discuss these things and hopefully at some point come to the conclusion that a majority will become wiser here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133240	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133243	The position of the Enhedslisten is that we must, of course, work to find joint international solutions to the refugee issue, which is why this vote has nothing to do with it, because we can do it today and we can do it tomorrow. It's about political will here in the Folketing. What puzzles me, however, is how we can have a situation where we have Margrete Auken, who says on behalf of the SF, that we have to vote in favour of abolishing the reservation of law, because then we can become part of the EU's refugee policy, and then we have a situation where the SF in this Chamber now intends to vote in favour of an amendment which gives the Left the right of veto as to whether Denmark should in future be part of the EU's refugee policy. It simply does not add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133325	I think, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen had to read inside. We are not saying that this means that we will be part of the EU's refugee policy. We say that it is important to help refugees, because we must be together on that. The Enhedslisten will not. The Enhedslisten believes that you can only have nationalistic solutions to this, because you can only get European solutions if you are also willing to give the European Union competence in this area, and the Enhedslisten will not do so because the Enhedslisten is against the European Union. The unitary list will out of the EU. That's what this is all about. What is crucial is that, with regard to trafficking in human beings, with regard to the debate on the Dublin Regulation, the Eurodac Regulation is included in the discussion afterwards, and we think that is actually important.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133409	The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133418	I would like to start by saying that, of course, we can also work together internationally in Europe without giving up self-determination and sovereignty. Holger K. Nielsen believes and thus has some experience that it can happen. And, of course, we can also work together on a European refugee solution. What has held us back so far in Denmark has been a majority within this Parliament hall which does not have the political will to take the lead in a common solution. But couldn't we get an answer to what SF really means? What exactly is the common refugee solution that we can get by a 'yes', which we cannot get by 'no', given that the SF has given and promised a right of veto for, among others. Left, compared to the fact that Denmark never joins that part of the EU's binding supranational cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133512	Well, as I said, we would have liked asylum policy to be included, but there is no majority for that at the moment. We do not believe that it will be achieved by voting 'no'. If you vote 'no', you are completely outside the discussion, completely outside of being able to influence this development, completely outside of being able to go in and do something about trafficking in human beings, which is also part of this problem, without going into the debate on the Dublin Regulation. In fact, we think it is important that if you want to do something to achieve a European refugee policy, you have to vote yes. This is not good enough, it is not far enough, but voting 'no' is a totally absurd answer to it, so you go straight backwards in terms of getting a European refugee policy unless, as the Enhedslisten really wants, you want to get out of the European Union. That is what Enhedslisten wants from this; we do not want to have common European solutions to this. You have a lot of talk, talk, intergovernmental cooperation, cooperation between countries, knowing that the only solution to this is binding solutions, binding cooperation, and this binding cooperation can only take place through the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133628	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133632	It's funny, like sir. Holger K. Nielsen continues to equate binding solutions with surrender of sovereignty, and there is no such solution. Of course, we must make intergovernmental binding solutions, just as Denmark is included in many other conventions without giving sovereignty and self-determination to a system which, in my opinion, is old and stable, which has not solved anything and is not democratically anchored in the peoples of Europe either, which we should agree on the Enhedslisten and SF between, but we are now no longer, because the SF has drifted away. Could the SF not just explain what it is that you think you are getting out of a yes where you have put right of veto in the arms of the Left in relation to refugee and asylum policy? Where exactly is the right to influence then lies in a yes when it is not elected with the opt-in system?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133724	I simply think it is manipulative when Mrs Pernille Skipper draws a parallel between conventions and EU cooperation. It is quite a matter of comparison. She knows very well that conventions do not have the same obligations, do not have the same reprisals, do not have the same opportunities, do not have to go after those who break the rules. That is the whole difference: EU cooperation is binding. If you break the cooperation, something happens to you, someone comes after you, then there's a court coming after you. She knows that well, and that's what it's all about here. Why is it not possible for refugees to be distributed within the European Union at the moment? Because there are some countries that just bypass, which use it exclusively intergovernmental to bypass, and therefore we need to have more binding cooperation. And that's what Enhedslisten doesn't want at all, doesn't want to discuss, because ultimately they want to leave the European Union. That is their agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133823	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133828	I understand that the rapporteur is writhing a little over this issue, because it is, of course, the case, and I think it is obvious to everyone that when Mrs Margrete Auken has been out with the message she has and when we see all these posters from around the SF, it is all about the fact that SF knows very well that if you have left-wing voters to vote in favour and give a yes on 3 December, you have to give them the impression that then we are moving a little closer towards solidarity solutions to refugee policy. The fact is that it is the opposite, namely that with a yes we give the most reactionary parties in this Parliament the right of veto to ensure that we never get that cooperation. So that's it. But that is something else I would like to ask: the SF rapporteur supports the government's or the Left's proposal that there should be a referendum in the exercise of power over the territory of foreigners. Why does the SF rapporteur not support the Enhedslisten's proposal that if, for example, The European Union wants to intervene in the right to strike, that is to say, that there must be a surrender of sovereignty there, in relation to courts or other matters, an important, important issue which is at the same level, so must we guarantee the Danes a referendum? I find it hard to understand that SF supports one but does not support the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110133947	The question of referendums is, after all, more complex than that and can be involved in all kinds of areas, both on EU issues and on other issues here in the Folketing. Now we have these legal acts, this agreement that has been made, and then a political agreement has been reached that there must be a referendum if we are to be involved in asylum cooperation. I shall not go into the background to that; I think there are some tactical considerations behind it. But I do not think that should be mixed up with the possibility of doing so in all sorts of other areas. We still have a representative democracy in this country. It is the Folketing that decides, and in certain special situations, referendums are then used.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134039	Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134042	Yes, in certain particular situations, for example. when, according to the Constitution, sovereignty is relinquished. And the fact is that if the Danes vote yes, god forbid it, on 3 December, then that sovereignty has been surrendered. Then there is no more right to a referendum, and that is why the government needs to go out and say: we promise the Danes that there will be a referendum on immigration policy. This is supported by the rapporteur's party. But why not give the same guarantee in other, absolutely crucial areas and say: OK, the Danes are voting yes, but if we are going to give up power in areas such as energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy. As regards the Danish courts, decisive levels of penalties, the right to strike, will we, of course, also commit ourselves to holding a referendum? For that is the consequence or the result of the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134132	You can imagine all kinds of proposals coming forward. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted knows very well that the Folketing has a right to choose from and to choose. The question then is whether the Folketing per. definition is a collection of bandits that no one in this world can trust at all. You might think so, and that's the populism that Enhedslisten is doing politics on. Enhedslisten on it, okay, okay. But I still think that we must have in mind that we have been elected by the electorate and that it is the European Parliament's Committee that makes decisions every week as has been done since 1972. There is no difference at all between the situation we have now and the one we have known since 1972, when we have not had referendums every time, if I may say so, there should be a new EU directive on one or the other. That's why I really think it's proportion distortion when Enhedslisten makes this the big animal in the revelation. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134236	Thank you. There are two more who have asked for brief comments. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134245	Thank you. Now I was aware that the rapporteur said that the EU's asylum policy is not included in this vote. Then it is that I have been looking at lampposts here for a while, and I can see there that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's party colleague, Mrs Margrete Auken, hangs all over with the headline "Together for aid to refugees." It says that on these posters. Then I thought it might be that it was because Margrete Auken was a little autonomous and had his own campaign going on, and that it was, sir. Holger K. Nielsen said here that could not be seen in connection with it. But since it is now also on the SF's own website that we are voting on whether or not we should be together on refugees, I just have to ask Mr. Holger K. Nielsen: Is it time to get those posters down, or what? Or, sir. Holger K. Nielsen explain such a greater context to the wondering mass?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134342	Well, I've explained that before. I mean, we are not part of the EU's refugee policy, but we are together to deal with refugee problems in other ways. That is what we are, and that is why we think it is important to combat trafficking in human beings. I assume that the Danish People's Party believes that this is an important part of this problem, but perhaps you do not? But we think it is. In fact, we believe it is important to be able to go in and catch those who trade with refugees. We think it is important that the Dublin problem be discussed and that the problem of refugees dealt with in a spirit of solidarity as much as possible. And that is certainly not done by voting 'no', because then what the Danish People's Party wants is to do, namely to isolate ourselves completely from the other countries and do what we can to keep the refugees away from Denmark. That is not our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134440	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134443	After all, I do not believe that there is necessarily a direct link between trafficking in human beings and refugees. There may be this between trafficking in human beings and refugees, but trafficking in human beings? I do not really know whether it is appropriate to say that now. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur: there are only two options here. Either this has something to do with refugees or it's a slip. And if it is a slip, I think there are a lot of slippers hung up all over Copenhagen and all sorts of other places, and I just want to hear if the rapporteur will take care to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134522	Honestly, I think, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is a slipper if I'm gonna be a hero, come on. Because I just don't think this sounds very thoughtful, I have to say. What I have said and what we stand for is that the EU's asylum and refugee policy is not included in the referendum. Nevertheless, European solutions to the refugee problem are needed, and it would therefore be completely ridiculous to vote 'no' in the referendum if European solutions were to be found. And in the case of a 'yes', there are also some more instruments to deal with the refugee problem, including trafficking in human beings and the fight against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134607	I would remind you that, for both the rapporteur and the questioner, it is of course a matter of maintaining parliamentary language. Then the next one is Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134626	I thought that slipping was such an innocent word. I was listening to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's answer to Mr. Pelle Dragsted just before where Mr. Holger K. Nielsen talked about SF not supporting Enhedslisten's amendments here because we are elected by the people and thus can make decisions here in the Folketing. It is also an argument that is linked if the SF did not support the government's proposal, which is of course about exactly the same thing, but only in the separate area of asylum and refugee policy. So what is the crucial difference between the SF's attitude to asylum and refugee policy and the other areas of justice policy, for which we could also guarantee a referendum if further sovereignty were to be given?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134713	You could say that the difference is that this is a single case. That is not our proposal, but, as I said, we are in an agreement with the other parties, and then we have decided that we are loyally behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134731	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134734	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen himself began by saying that this subject is not part of the agreement, so I guess the SF is free to vote. Nor is it the SF's proposal, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says, first of all, that you do not want to stand anywhere other than the parties with which you have made an agreement in relation to the referendum, knowing that it has nothing to do with exactly this amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134801	This is about an overall political assessment of how we are going to deal with this discussion. And we would like to point out that we are not part of the agreement between the three parties, but we nevertheless support the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134812	One more person has signed up for a brief remark. It's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134820	Thank you. I was, of course, a little puzzled by the comments made by the rapporteur for the SF to my colleague Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. I do not think it is quite fair to start going down at that level of debate. But enough about it. I would like to concentrate on what was actually the basics of the issues that came from Kenneth Kristensen Berth, and it was, in fact, whether there is no problem with SF's marketing, i.e. in connection with the campaign where posters are put up, where there are among other things. states that we are together on the problem of refugees and the challenges that exist and then link it to this referendum that we have on 3 December. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there must then be a certain amount of transparency between what a party says here in the Folketing, the agreements that you are part of, and then the arguments that you use on the lampposts when you try to lure the Danes into voting in favour of something they will earnestly regret later?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110134912	Well, I don't know if I'm in a position to explain it to Mr. Kim. Hans Kristian Skibby, but let me try again. There's a connection. We have not claimed here, on the lampposts or anywhere else that this referendum is specifically about the EU's refugee and asylum policy. All right, then, we say that if we are to deal with refugee policy, it is nevertheless necessary for Europe to work together and that it would therefore be foolish to vote against it in the referendum if we were to say so, and that there are also instruments in favour of dealing with the refugee situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135000	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135005	It certainly does not change the fact that the 22 acts on the basis of which the referendum is based have little to do with the signals and political reports that are in the SF election campaign here up to the referendum on 3 December. That is what is so characteristic of it. That is also why we are asking this question: why, then, is it that the SF chooses to use their posters and their place to campaign for something that does not really concern what other parties to the conciliation on this referendum have said it is not at all about: the common refugee and asylum policy? Even though this has nothing to do with it, the SF still chooses to use it on the pillars around Denmark in terms of it being part of the debate. So I think the rapporteur has an obligation to explain it not just to me, because I will understand it, but to the electorate who may feel a little confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135055	Listen, if I was going to explain or analyze all the manipulations and the scam and scam in the Danish People's Party campaign, both here and elsewhere, I could give an hour-long lecture. I mean, I could give an hour-long lecture. I simply think that what the SF has done here is quite real. We recognize, and I do so here today, that the referendum itself is not about the specific part of judicial cooperation relating to asylum and refugee policy, but that there is of course a link with the whole refugee problem and that it is therefore extremely stupid if we vote 'no' on 3 December, that is to say if we want to deal with this problem Europeanally.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135144	As a result, there was one more person who asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135152	Thank you. When the rapporteur says that this vote is not specifically about refugee and alien policy in the European Union, the rapporteur can tell us whether, in the SF, it would have been desirable for this referendum to include precisely refugee and asylum policy so that this pan-European solution could be found. Is it SF's policy that it would have liked to have been part of the vote on 3 December?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135221	I am very pleased with that question because the answer is yes. We have always argued that it would be beneficial to include it, because we do believe that European solutions are needed. Unlike the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, we actually believe that common European solutions to the refugee problem are important.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135239	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135242	Thank you very much for that answer. The rapporteur can therefore also confirm that, after 3 December, it would be possible, as part of a political agreement, possibly on a financial law to be adopted by a possible future Red Government, to bring it here as part of the agreement, and then it would be law in Denmark that it was an area we handed over to the European Union and nothing should be adopted in that area in the Folketing. That would then be a legal possibility, and it would be something that could be pursued in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135319	You can pursue a lot of things. But I now doubt that governments we support would be part of the plattenslageri that we saw in the past, where the Danish People's Party, for example. Suddenly, a Tunisian law was introduced as a last-minute commodity and all the other measures that have been attempted over the years. It is not, of course, a style that the governments we support would normally practice, so I do not recognize that connection, and it is so far out in the fog that I find it difficult to comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135349	Thank you. There are no further comments to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. And then it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, who has been standing by for a long time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110135407	I was driven to the platform by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's speech, where I think some things were said that I do not recognize. Firstly, it was said that the 'yes' parties were driven by an unbridled EU enthusiasm, and I would certainly say that is not the case with my party. I personally have no unbridled EU enthusiasm. I think it makes sense to have a rather pragmatic approach to the European Union and to participate in the areas that are good for the Danes. But our priority is therefore to do the best for Denmark, not to promote some European project. The reason why we think that we should be involved in parts of judicial cooperation is that the legal acts we endorse are in favour of Danish citizens and companies; it strengthens the legal position in a number of situations. For example, if there are divorce cases, or if there are succession cases where families are scattered across several countries, then there will be clarity as to which country's legislation should apply. It is quite harmless, and it is clearly in favour of the Danes' legal position, and it solves some very concrete problems for some real people who are not going to have to face some very difficult trials in the future. Then I was very pleased with the debate that has just taken place, because it made it crystal clear that asylum and refugee policy will not be an EU issue, even if we vote yes on 3 December. In fact, I thought it was very useful to make that clear. It was also useful that the alternative had a motion for a resolution which was clearly voted down, in which it was just proposed that asylum and refugee policy should be a matter for the European Union. Then I do not think I can add any more words to what has been said in this very long debate before, and I hope that the end will be the end of listening to some people who claim that we are now making asylum and refugee policy an EU issue and that we will then hand it over to the European Union. We do not, and there are some really, really sure guarantees that this will not happen. It is, as I think Pernille Skipper said, the majority in the Folketing who decides what our refugee and asylum policy should be like. That is how it is today, and so it will be in the future. Then a few other things were also said that I would like to attack. I thought it was a little bit fresh from Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to say that Denmark will undoubtedly join Europol, if it is voted no. Especially when you have just stood last week, I think it was, and got beat up in Detector on Danmarks Radio for exactly that claim. Here it was established that there is considerable doubt as to whether Denmark does. I agree that we can probably get some kind of cooperation agreement with Europol, even if that is a 'no', but we should not pretend to the Danes that it will not be difficult, nor should we pretend to the Danes that the most likely outcome would be that we would have an equally good agreement with Europol if it were to be a 'no', as if it were to be a 'yes' vote. We can look to Norway, which has some form of association agreement, where data from Europol can be drawn, but every time you have to apply for them. It is therefore a different situation to be outside and to have an agreement with Europol than it is to be part of Europol, where you can directly search their database and thereby withdraw the data that the police need. This will provide a better opportunity to investigate crime. Then it was also said that we could choose just to be part of Europol without having an optional system. That is also wrong. It is the case that what we have the right to do in the Treaty is that we can transform our legal reservation into an opt-in system, and then we can choose to join Europol. We do not have the second option in terms of the Treaty. Finally, it was said by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth states that a political agreement concluded between the parties in the Folketing is completely valueless. And there I often hear in the debate that people say that it would be better if there were some kind of legal agreement. I would just like to remind you that just when it comes to the Folketing, legal agreements are not so important, because it is the Folketing that does the law, and that is why, if there is a legal agreement, it can be changed, whereas political agreements are actually very, very stable. And we can just look, for example, at the agreement reached in 1993 between the parties at that time. It's been holding for 22 years without being broken, I know. This is an example of the fact that we can indeed count on the political agreements that are being concluded to be very, very important and that they are not being broken. As far as my party is concerned, I can say that we are extremely pleased that there is a right of veto in order to ensure that asylum and refugee policy is not handed over to the European Union, because we are not concerned that a whole lot of sovereignty should be given to the European Union. We are concerned about solving some specific problems for Danish citizens and companies for the benefit of the Danes, not for the benefit of the EU, but for the benefit of the Danes. And that's what this is about. There is no question of there being an unbridled opportunity for us to surrender sovereignty in the future. It is a question of giving us the opportunity to agree to agreements similar to the 22 acts that we now endorse, and I am still in favour of hearing good objections to the acts. That has not been part of the debate at all. No one has been attacking the things that we actually support, and that is because they are not attackable. These are good things that we agree to do... that brings benefits to the Danes. And that's why we're here. It is not to sell Denmark to the EU, it is not to sell out of our independence, it is not to benefit the European project, it is to benefit the Danes and Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140013	Thank you to the rapporteur. Six have asked for brief comments, and the first is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140022	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would like to start by saying that if the rapporteur has not heard any objections to any of the acts other than Europol, the rapporteur has not listened well enough and could perhaps start by reading the Jyllands-Posten today, which is also problematizing that one of the acts that are part of the vote and that will apply will mean that foreign courts can take decisions which will also apply in Denmark. Having said that, I would really like to hear why Conservatives are voting in favour of an amendment here today, which clearly promises that if sovereignty is to be given in the area of asylum, there must be a referendum on, but against the amendment from the Enhedslisten, which would ensure that if self-determination is to be given to courts or family law, something that fundamentally changes something, perhaps our criminal age, or access to equality between parents in divorce cases, what do I know is that there will also have to be a referendum there. Why not ensure maximum democracy and also referendums in such large, fundamental surrenders of sovereignty?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140133	There must be more calm in the Chamber so that we can hear both those who have brief comments and comments and those who stand on the platform. Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140146	Conservatives are very concerned that asylum and refugee policy in particular is not being made an EU issue, because we actually think it is important that we as a country should be able to decide for ourselves about demographic developments in Denmark. That is why we are in favour of the fact that there are such strong political guarantees that it will never be an EU matter that we have admitted here. In relation to the other areas, it is our view that it would be very difficult for us to have a referendum every time we agree to the smallest small agreement. Now we have 22 legal acts here, and I can mention one of them, which is that if a person in a Danish court is protected by a restraining order, so that another person is not allowed to approach him, then the police restraining order also applies if the protected person moves to another EU country. Germany. We do not think there is a need for a referendum on this. We think it is so obvious that it is right to agree to such an agreement that it would have been too much to hold a referendum on it, which we do not think would be appropriate. It is, of course, a question of trust in the Folketing
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140251	Mrs. Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140253	It's funny that sir. Rasmus Jarlov gives that example, because it is actually one of the things that is going to be a referendum on. But if we vote 'yes' to, among other things. Conservatives' proposals on this so-called opt-in scheme, then the people will never be asked again about everything that will come in the future. So one day, if there are proposals for harmonization of the age of crime or of divorce rules or anything else, sovereignty can be given without people being asked again. After all, the words 'assignment' mean surrendering sovereignty which cannot be withdrawn, even if we choose a new Parliament and a different majority, and that is certainly not a small thing either for Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140342	I agree that if it were to be such a very, very large decision, as Mrs Pernille Skipper mentions here, a referendum could be held on it. But the problem is to take a whole area and say that in all matters of family law, even the slightest change must be included in a referendum. We think that would be too difficult, and there we have the manoeuvrability in the Folketing that we are going to make those decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140409	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140412	Thank you. Will the rapporteur confirm that this referendum is about much more than 22 acts? It is about the fact that if we vote 'yes' on 3 December, five 'yes' will be issued a blank cheque by the people and will have the power to join Denmark in the 872 legislative acts that exist in this area we are talking about today and that the same 'yes' parties will have the power to join Denmark in the far more than 100 proposals that are on the way here. In other words, a yes on 3 December means that the five yes parties will have the power to connect Denmark to approx. 1.000 legislative acts without asking the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140513	Well, I often get those questions from Mr. Finn Sørensen, if I can confirm some numbers and something like that, and I can't, because I can't do those numbers in my head. However, I can confirm that it is true that the Folketing will have the opportunity to join further acts, and thus also, of course, that it gives some room for the Folketing to take decisions on behalf of Denmark on which agreements we should be included in. I think everyone is aware of that is what the vote is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140540	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to a brief remark. Excuse me, sir. Finn Sørensen to the second brief remark, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140547	Thank you. Of course, it does not depend on whether it is 872 or 871 acts, but it does not matter whether you go out and tell the public what the real consequences are of that vote. Unfortunately, I am not sure that the rapporteur is right that it is clear to everyone what it is about. It does not, of course, because the 'yes' parties have chosen to give their legislative proposals and what is going to be on the ballot box a completely misleading impression that we retain the reservation of law, that we are simply transforming it into an opt-in system. So I am pleased that the rapporteur confirms that a 'yes' means that the five 'yes' parties will be given the power to join Denmark without asking the people, and without it being withdrawn again to well over 800 legal acts. So thank you for that confirmation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140632	Before replying to the rapporteur, I should like to point out that we have turned off the 'A' again, as so many people have been on the list of speakers who wish to make brief comments. We will, of course, call in again when it is that we are approaching the vote. Just for the sake of good order, and because there is clearly a great need to speak out from the platform. Now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140653	I'm always happy to do sir. Finn Sørensen happy. After all, it is good that we can have some agreement on what this is all about. However, I would just like to say in addition to that that I also think it is important that at the same time it is said that it is still only in the legal field, so that we do not leave the Danes with the impression that it can also be about having a common asylum and refugee policy with the rest of the European Union, or that we do not leave the Danes with the impression that we will then be able to join the euro or a European army or all sorts of other terrible things. So I just think it's important that we on both sides try to define this, so we tell you what's right, and we don't try to exaggerate what the vote is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140732	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140736	Thanks to the rapporteur for some, I think, very honest answers also to what we have heard from virtually all the other parties in this debate that this is therefore a full surrender of sovereignty by the Danes in this referendum, and that a majority of yes-parties in the Folketing can subsequently transfer sovereignty to the 600 or so acts already in existence and then an infinite number of acts in the future. After all, that puts the Danes in a position to make a choice. I heard the other day the Minister of Justice put it like this is a rooftop self-table, and that's right. It is a self-table for the ja parties that one could add that it is a roof-table with free beer, and then one can ask oneself whether one would like to put the ja parties with the Prime Minister at the head of such a roof-table, whether one trusts that it will be administered democratically to the Danes. But now the rapporteur says that there are areas that are so important that there will have to be a referendum, in other words that there should also be a referendum in the rapporteur's view. For example, in the case of: We said that if there is to be a change in Danish courts, then we need a referendum, would the rapporteur be prepared to commit himself to it in the vote here on 3 December, so that, just as we commit ourselves to foreign affairs, we also take a few other key areas and give the Danes a guarantee by saying: 'Okay, you will vote in favour of these 18 legislative acts, but if we give sovereignty in other crucial areas, in specific issues, then of course a referendum is required?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110140905	Thank you for the praise for honesty. I am not in a position where, like this, I can shoot from the hip and define further guarantees in relation to what had to be referendums. I have only said in principle that if very, very large decisions are taken on the transfer of very important areas to the European Union, then I would also feel that it would be right to take a referendum on them. That is also true, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted says that Parliament will have the opportunity to join a large number of legal acts in the future in the area of justice in the European Union. It is not an unlimited surrender of sovereignty, it is within a well-defined area. One might then think that it is a huge problem to give the Folketing that power. I would say that I think there is a bigger problem, because Parliament already has the opportunity to make far greater accidents than what is at issue here. So, here we have a body, which is the highest elected body in Denmark, which has the opportunity to go to war, take every penny from people in tax, monitor the Danes as much as you want at all, and then Enhedslisten is concerned that we can join a legal act in order that companies can recover debts abroad. Then I think you have a bigger problem than this particular referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141014	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141016	I may now sound like a representative of the Conservative People's Party, but I actually think that national sovereignty is an important issue. That is why we have a constitution that says that exactly the surrender of sovereignty is one of the few areas in which we are actually voting on it. I actually thought that was a position shared by the Conservative People's Party. But let me ask you a very specific question. The rapporteur says, therefore, that there are areas where it would be wise for a referendum to be held. Can the rapporteur not just give three examples of areas in the future where the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will think that it would be a good idea here, perhaps even before a referendum, to say to the Danes that there will of course be a referendum if sovereignty is to be given in those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141059	The rapporteur then has 30 seconds to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141103	Nothing is more important for the Conservatives than national sovereignty. So, it is simply not something on which Enhedslisten has a patent. I also know that the Enhedslisten wants to go much further. Now we have just had the discussion that we want to give refugee policy to the European Union. So I experience that Enhedslisten wants to give a lot of things that we don't want. No, I cannot give three specific examples in areas where I would like to say that we need a referendum. I also said before that I can't shoot from my hip like that and say it. I would think it was careless of me to start saying things like this with ten seconds of reflection.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141137	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141140	Thank you. Surely it is not particularly safe for us, others who are a little more sceptical, that the rapporteur is not in a position to give three examples of some of the 800 other legal acts here, which we would like to see at least a referendum, instead of being able to be adopted by a simple majority of the European Committee here at Christiansborg, if it is to be a yes on 3 December. I think that may be a little worrying on the big scale. However, I would like to ask something else, and that is that the rapporteur used his rapporteur's speech precisely to say that this is about the 22 legislative acts. There I think the rapporteur forgot the second part of it, and that is that it is not just about the 22 legislative acts. It is also a question of giving up sovereignty in all sorts of other areas in relation to the fact that it can be achieved by a simple majority here in Christiansborg. That's something new. This is not one of the 22 pieces of legislation. Nor did the rapporteur mention that, if Schengen were to be a 'yes', it would become a supranational agreement and not an intergovernmental agreement as we know it today. This means that we are actually giving up sovereignty in terms of being able to impose some restrictions on Schengen. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this is far, far more than the famous 22 acts?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141251	I think I have also answered that question before when the authors of the Enhedslist asked it, namely that the vote here is about Europol, 22 legal acts, and then that we are transforming the reservation of law into an opt-in system in which, in future, there will be the possibility of adopting additional acts except in the area of asylum and refugees, but otherwise in the area of justice in the European Union. I guess it's so precise and neutral that I can explain what this referendum is all about. I really think it is interesting when it comes to this that we are going to opt for 22 acts out of eight hundred and seventy-seven acts. This shows how limited it really is and how little we really want to support it. I cannot give examples of other things that we would like to join in the future, because we did not want more than the 22 legislative acts. That is why they are coming to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141344	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141345	Thank you. If it is only the 22 acts, why in the name of heaven has the Conservative People's Party agreed that the agreement states that it is the 22 acts plus carte blanche for all future in the field? I simply cannot get that into my own head, I have to say. I would also like to say that the rapporteur's own party has previously had very prominent politicians here at Christiansborg, among other things. former Prime Minister, Poul Schlüter, who said: the Union is stone dead. And that's not known to me that many years ago. The guarantee to which the rapporteur refers, how many years does it hold? I guess there's nothing to say about us being quite concerned about this so-called guarantee from a current majority here in the Danish Parliament. Does it cover 10, 20, 50 or 100 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141433	One can discuss whether Schlüter time is many years ago. I think it's been relatively long, but it can of course depend on how old you are. I am specifically asked why we have opted for an opt-in system and not just the specific acts, and we do, because that is what Denmark has the opportunity to do in the Treaty. We have the opportunity to have an opt-in system, as do Britain and Ireland. We do not have the opportunity to just go in and say that we would like the specific legal acts without an opt-in system. So it is simply not on the table, it is not an option. That is why we have chosen to do it in the way we have. By the way, Conservatives think it is good that if there are some very small, harmless acts, then we have the opportunity to join them in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141511	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141514	I think that it is very bad for the Conservative rapporteur to profess conservative values of national sovereignty and self-determination to vote in favour of a proposal which suspends Article 20 of the Constitution in the legal field at the same time. For that is what happens: Paragraph 20 of the Constitution in the field of justice is suspended. It will be possible to surrender all that power in this area without having to ask the people or have a five-sixth majority in the Folketing. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur in this connection is why we do not vote in favour of the Enhedslisten proposal. After all, the Enhedslisten's proposal is not about all sorts of details; it is about only those places where, on the basis of a normal assessment, it would be said that Article 20 of the Constitution must enter here, and there must be either five sixths majority or a referendum. So it's not the details we're talking about, it's just the big stuff. If you are serious about your party programme, why not support the Enhedslisten proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141619	In fact, I am very pleased with the first question, i.e. whether it does not accord badly with conservative values. Because I understand. There are also a great many in my hinterland who intend to vote 'no' in the referendum, and I fully understand that. Because I do not want the European Union anymore either, and I understand that from a gut feeling you say that you can vote no. But I also have a pragmatism in me when I have been sitting and have read through very carefully what we are voting on, and I have not been able to find some things that I think are at a disadvantage in relation to the Danes, but where I think that the acts we endorse are harmless and for the unique benefit of Danish citizens and companies, and then I find it difficult to have anything to hold my skepticism on. And that is why I choose to say that in this area I think there can be a little bit more EU. Then there are some other areas in which I think we need to have much less of the European Union, among others. in relation to the problems we are currently facing with refugees, where I think we are too dependent on a refugee policy in other countries. So there are certainly also areas where we can turn the EU down. And then I actually forgot what was asked at the end, sorry, ask again if it was possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141726	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141728	If there was some logic in Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's argument, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov accepted a deal that was that he got 100 kroner. by me, the courage in return to hand over his dance card to me. I don't know if he will, but that's what he's doing. He says that there are some legal acts and that there are good things in those acts, and therefore he votes yes, but on the other hand he suspends Article 20 of the Constitution in the field of justice indefinitely, so that a random majority in the Folketing on one person may, in the context of a budget debate, hand over to the European Union all the powers you want in the legal field. Isn't that a really bad trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141811	I understand the concern, but I have to say again, and I also said this before, that this Parliament already has the opportunity to take decisions that are far more serious than the possibility of agreeing to some small agreements in the area of justice in the European Union. And that's just where I say that if we don't have faith that the Folketing can make some decisions in this limited area, then we have a bigger problem than this referendum. So I do not think it will be the case that it will just escalate and that a whole lot of things will be chosen that greatly expand the importance and influence of the European Union on Danish affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141849	Five speakers are still queuing on the list of speakers for brief comments. I would just like to point out that speaking time is limited to 1 minute in the first place and to 30 seconds in the second. The next brief remark is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141907	I'd like to continue a little along that trail. You could agree that there are little things and big things. If one then agrees that the Constitution commands itself with the surrender of sovereignty, that is. the transfer of power to a significant extent and the fact that all the small things are being pushed away is so that Enhedslisten and Mr. Jarlov agrees that, in principle, the essential things should be put to a referendum or at least have a qualified majority in the Parliamentary Assembly? It is not the case that I say that someone is unqualified, but there must be a five-sixth majority in the Chamber if they are to be adopted on the essentials.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110141954	I'll tell you what my position will be. If there are any very, very big things to be left to the European Union, I think it is right to take a referendum on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142005	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142007	In other words, we agree on that. But how on earth do we create a situation where Mr. Jarlov can get his buddies into that deal? After all, there is no guarantee that this will happen, even if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov votes differently than he has promised the inner circle to do. That is where I think the problem lies, and that is what we can solve by voting in favour of the Enhedslisten proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142039	That's absolutely right. And I certainly have to acknowledge Enhedslisten's point that there may be something here that I understand does, that there are some who think: are we not leaving too much to the Folketing? However, I cannot answer anything other than what I have said so far, namely that the Folketing is already a body which has the opportunity to take very, very far-reaching decisions on behalf of Denmark and that we need to have some confidence that we will take the right decisions, even when it comes to the choice of agreements in the legal field in this limited area of the European Union. We must then work together on this, if there are any great things to come, and then we must demand a referendum. But there is a risk, and it must then be offset by the very specific problems that are being solved for Danish citizens and companies, by the fact that we have an opt-in system, which I actually think is a quite generous offer from the other Member States to Denmark, namely that we can opt for the things that benefit us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142134	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142136	Thank you. The rapporteur started by reminding the House of how solid political agreements were against legal agreements. Then I'd just like to follow up a little where, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby concluded: the 1986 statement by the Conservative Prime Minister, Mr. Poul Schlüter, who proclaimed that the Union was stone dead. Only seven years later, the European Union was a reality. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur about the promises now made by the large majority of the Folketing, whether this is the same number of years, i.e. whether we can expect it to have a lifetime of seven years?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142229	Thank you for giving me the question again, because I was so sorry that I did not have the answer to it before when Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby asked me the question. It is the case that we must distinguish between predictions and assessments by politicians and then political agreements between political parties. These are very different things. There are plenty of examples that politicians have come up with wrong assessments, wrong predictions of how things are going to go. However, there are not many examples of people in this Parliament who do not care about some bell-clear written agreements between the political parties, which are even sent out to the entire population of Denmark for inspection, and which they then just don't care about afterwards. So there is no tradition for that. That is why the political agreements between the political parties are a very strong guarantee, because we do not accept in here that there are some who break their agreements. If you, as a political party, start running away from your agreements, you're just done making deals in here and then you put yourself outside of political influence. So political agreements are therefore a very strong guarantee and it is a stronger guarantee than a legal guarantee. That is also why we heard earlier in the debate with the left that it was said that the possibility of asylum and refugee policy becoming part of the European Union had gone further away with this political agreement we have reached than it was before.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142340	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142342	Thank you. Can the rapporteur then understand that it can be difficult, as ordinary citizens here in Denmark, to distinguish between when politicians say something like a prediction or an agreement or a promise or a declaration of intent, because I think we muddle it a little for the poor citizens of this country, when that is how to have extremely political ingenuity to understand what politicians really promise and what else they just think could happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142417	I fully agree that Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen muddles the picture to the public by comparing the two things and making it the same, namely that Schlüter has come up with a wrong prediction once about how the European Union should develop and comparing it with a written agreement between the political parties. I fully agree that when Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen makes that comparison, and Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby also did it, it can be difficult for people outside to see the difference. But there is a very clear difference between the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142443	Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142447	Thank you. The rapporteur said that, quote, there is nothing more important for the Conservative People's Party than national sovereignty. It is, of course, a well-known view from the Conservative People's Party, but I just think that in this light it is very strange that the Conservative People's Party does not seize the opportunity and vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendments, which ensure that exactly national sovereignty should be given in the future, so that this should be done in accordance with section 20 of the Constitution and the principles set out therein. In her reply to Mrs Pernille Skipper, the rapporteur said that, quoting, it is difficult to hold referendums on things that may be more technical in nature, and we can agree on that, but that is why it is so good that exactly in the Enhedslisten's proposal the procedure described in the constitution has been taken into account, namely that it can be done by a five-sixth majority here in the Folketing. That is why my question is this: does the rapporteur also think that it is difficult to have a five-sixth majority in the Folketing before giving up sovereignty?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142552	No, I don't think that's difficult. This is a fine mechanism which ensures that if there is a real, real need for a referendum in general, then you have the opportunity. But again, I don't know if I can add so much new, because it's a lot of the same questions I get over and over again. I also understand the objections and the points in them, but I do not think I can say so much other than what I have already said, namely that we think it would be too violent if we were, for example, to endorse such a legal regulation that it would be easier for Danish companies to have debts in German companies if we owed them money and that we would then have a referendum on it. Sometimes there may be some things that are so obvious and perhaps also technical that it has no interest to change a referendum or not to demand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142639	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142641	But it is precisely to this kind of question that we have the five-sixth majority rule here in the Danish Parliament, and when the rapporteur says that he thinks it is a fine mechanism and that one can also make use of that system, I would just urge the Conservative People's Party to vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten. You can still do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142701	Thank you. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142704	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142710	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur stayed a great deal at my rapporteur's speech, and I must just make it clear to the rapporteur that the rapporteur did not seem to have seen the same programme as I have seen. As far as I remember the DR programme Detector, it was confirmed that the views I have expressed are in line with the facts, and that is not just my views, because it is also Dr Jur. Peter Paghs, University of Copenhagen, views which the rapporteur who allows himself to challenge. But let it go. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: since it has become the view of the Conservative People's Party that national sovereignty is important since the 1950s, why is it not the view of the Conservative People's Party that Article 20 of the Constitution must be respected and therefore a five-sixth majority in the parliament to give up sovereignty or a referendum? In other words, if the rapporteur can obtain a five-sixth majority in the Folketing, then it can surrender sovereignty. But here we are referring to the Committee on European Affairs, where 12 to 15 people are sitting and discussing whether sovereignty should be given. In my opinion, it is not to take national sovereignty seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142819	I believe that Kenneth Kristensen Berth is very alone in interpreting the Detector broadcast. I must also say that if it is really the case that there is a breach of the constitution here, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, I think that the Danish People's Party would manage to set that agenda somewhat more, because that would then be a very serious matter, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142842	Sir. Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142844	I would just like to ask very briefly whether the rapporteur is aware at all of the fact that there is a Danish legal professor named Peter Pagh and that Peter Pagh has given his opinion on the reservation of law and has stated how Article 8 of the Protocol of Lisbon on Denmark states that we can use the opt-in system in limited form after a 'no' vote. Is the rapporteur even aware of this? Or is it something that concerns the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142910	I am aware of this, and I am also aware that many people disagree with Mr. Peter Pagh. And if, as I said, there was a violation of the constitution, I think there would be a rather greater outcry than there has been. That is not the case. We are now asking the Danes to give up some sovereignty, and they will be allowed to vote on that. And by that we mean that the constitution has been observed, and that is what most other people think.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142942	Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110142944	Now I have listened to the rapporteur's speech and answers to questions, and I am surprised that the rapporteur says that he does not want the European Union any more, because that is exactly what the rapporteur gets by giving up sovereignty in this area. Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that when a large majority in this Parliament has given its sovereignty, then it is the case that we cannot take the area back. Will the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110143014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110143017	Yes and no. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth also came to say before that legislative competence was handed over to the European Union, and that is not true, because if the legislative acts that we endorse change in the future, we will have to elect them again and then we will have the opportunity to withdraw from them. In other words, it is not the case that the train is just driving, and then we can never get out of cooperation again. However, it is true that, as a starting point, when we agree to a legal act, the table will catch up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110143053	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110143057	Does the rapporteur think that Switzerland and Norway are a weak link in the fight against crime? It is strange to hear the rapporteur on the platform today, in relation to what the rapporteur says, about his no longer wanting the European Union and also being able to understand that someone in his hinterland is voting no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110143121	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110143122	No, I do not regard Norway and Switzerland as a weak link in terms of crime, but I think they have a disability in that they are not part of Europol. And I think we should put our police as well as possible and give them the best tools. It is true that in this area I am in favour of more EU, and then there are other areas where I am in favour of significantly less EU, and overall it will probably be less if it were up to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110143147	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questioners, and then I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110143204	When I was preparing for today's debate, I thought: if I am lucky, it is a new debate and not a repeat of the first reading; if I am lucky, then the rapporteurs, the participants in the debate have read the questions that have been put along the way and the answers, and then we will not repeat the debate we had at first reading; then we could just go ahead and re-debate from some clarified points of view. I don't have a lucky day on this. I think that the debate is very much a repetition of the first reading, which is why I also need to make a few preliminary comments from the outset, which in itself have nothing to do with the amendments, but with the general approach to the debate. First of all, there is the question of why we have a referendum in front of us. Some argue that it is because we who recommend a yes want more EU. That is not correct. The reason we have a referendum now is because the European Union is moving. The European Union is moving by moving Europol, which has hitherto been an intergovernmental organisation, into the normal EU system. This means that when the EU moves, Europol will move with it. So if Denmark stays standing, we end up standing outside Europol. That is why it is precisely now that we have to vote. Because when the rest of Europe moves and if we stand still, we end up standing outside. We cannot be aware of this when it comes to providing the Danes with security, ensuring effective fight against crime and ensuring that we work with the other countries in the fight against crime that has become more and more cross-border. Therefore, when Europe moves, it is wise to move on to Europol, and we are doing so here. In doing so, we are addressing the opportunity that has been given to us in the Treaty of Lisbon, namely to move away from our legal reservation and to an electoral system. This is the model that the other EU countries have agreed with Denmark that we have. We can choose for ourselves. It is a question of giving up sovereignty in this area because we have a legal reservation, we have an electoral system. That is why we have a referendum. It's nothing new. If I had been home in Jutland, I would have said that it is a bad thing, for example. Mr. Pelle Dragsted says it's amazing that Mr. Dragsted... Rasmus Jarlov finally admits that it is a surrender of sovereignty. If sir... Pelle Dragsted had been to the whole debate and had not gone before the last time, then he would have heard that Mrs Pernille Skipper praised me for exactly the same thing at first reading. But that's the trick that's coming. Now it's like it's been exposed. Listen to me, ladies and gentlemen: the reason why we have a referendum is that it is a matter of surrender of sovereignty. But it is a wise surrender of sovereignty. In fact, this means that even if we are legally giving up sovereignty, we really have the right to decide something more. In this Parliament we have the right to decide how we want to participate in the cooperation. It is the case today, with the 22 legislative acts we have chosen, and, incidentally, with those we have chosen from, and those we are not talking about at all, namely asylum and immigration policy, that if we wish to participate, we must go to the European Union and ask them to be able to join us. And then it depends on the grace of the European Union whether we can join, for example. combating child pornography, combating cybercrime, ensuring that violent women can get their police restrained into Europe. We are dependent on the grace of the other countries. That is the case today with the reservation of law. However, with an option scheme, which the Danish People's Party's normal favourite country, the UK, has, it is the case that Denmark has the opportunity to choose through the Danish Parliament itself. Then we should not wait for the others to say 'yes' or 'no' or ask us to hold a long-term parallel agreement. Then we get the right to choose what we want to be in or not to be in. So we in the Danish Parliament will have much more influence on how the Danes can be protected from crime, how Danish employees and companies can more easily gain access to trade in Europe, and how we can ensure that Danish citizens in succession or family cases have a better legal position. That's gonna be our right. That's why we really have a lot more to say in this Parliament in terms of protecting the Danes. Now it is the case that much of the debate so far has been wasted because of some false claims about Danish self-determination and sovereignty. It is a bit like Ludvig Holberg's Erasmus Montanus: If nonsense is spoken in Latin and repeated enough times, then there are probably some who believe that it is true. That is not true, just as it is not true when you talk about dispensing from section 20 or anything else. You don't have to. It is a normal Article 20 procedure and that is why we have a referendum. That is why some people are also raising the argument that this is just a slippery path towards foreign and refugee policy. It is being disproved today by the Enhedslisten, who is bemoaning that it is not just an opening until the immigration and asylum policy. We have two relatively active 'no' parties. One says 'no', because then asylum policy will be included; the other party says 'no' because asylum policy will not be included. They say that people should vote no because they would much rather have asylum policy included. It is regrettable that there is now an amendment in which three parties have indicated how we will use the right of veto we have politically agreed. It is also in response to many of the questions which Mr. Holger K. Nielsen got. What kind of amendment do we have here? We have an amendment with which the comments state exactly how three parties • my own, the Social Democratic Party and the Conservative People's Party choose to use the right of veto we have politically agreed. So the right of veto is there and we have indicated how we will use it. It is the case that the opt-in system allows us to participate. It allows us to be part of Europol, but also in a large number of other areas. I have noted from the first reading that DF's rapporteur said he would not be in 21 out of 22 legal acts. There was no need to be involved at all. He didn't want them at all. This means a 'no' to the strengthening of the fight against child pornography, a 'no' to the strengthening of the fight against cybercrime, a 'no' to the protection of Danish women persecuted by violent husbands in Denmark. The Danish People's Party says no to that. That was the rapporteur's speech at first reading. Nothing in today's speech has changed that. I really hope that it will be corrected, because I simply cannot understand if it is the case that the speech from the first reading stands and that the DF still says that they will not have 21 out of 22 legislative acts. By the way, I think it was a statement. From the point of view of the minutes, it seems that the DF's rapporteur felt that Europol was the 22nd legislative act. It's not there. There are 22 acts alongside Europol that we have chosen to accept. I think it should be made more difficult to be a criminal, and that is why I would like to emphasise, for example, that: The police union, which states that it is a prerequisite for the effective fight against cross-border crime, that the Danish police have full access to Europol databases, that we should not work bilaterally on a case-by-case basis, that Danish police have maximum insight into international organisations' criminal networks, that we can join joint investigation teams and that Denmark does not lose any influence on the strategic direction of Europol. The only way we can do this is by being fully involved, and that is why we recommend an opt-in system which is the only way to ensure that we remain in Europol without a break, without a stay. The same is true of the value of Europol from the Association of Public Prosecutors, which states that the prosecution benefits greatly from participation in Eurojust, which is the European cooperation between prosecutors. And it is not only Europol that we are discussing; we are also discussing the other legal acts that are being said 'yes' to. Save the child considers that the rights of Danish and European children are better protected if Denmark joins an opt-in scheme than if Denmark does not. Save the child refers among other things. to the value of practical cooperation in the EU in combating child pornography and mentions that Danish participation in Europol's Icarus operation in 2011 led to 122 arrests, of which 19 were Danish men. Save the child mentions that Denmark has voluntarily chosen to adapt its criminal law in accordance with the directive, but points out that the legal reservation has meant that Denmark has not been able to influence and help shape the common rules. The Children's Council, Children's Terms, provides basic consultation answers with the same message. I think it should be safer to be a Dane. Therefore, I fully agree with the Children's Terms. Their hearing answer gives a good example of how a child becomes a throwing ball between different authorities in long-standing legal cashiers. It would be easier if it were decided clearly how to decide, and according to Children's Conditions this can be done, by Denmark electing family law acts that simplify and streamline the treatment of cross-border disputes. So there are a number of good proposals and there are a number of good arguments for saying yes to an opt-in system. I think we should leave the theoretical mist talk about whether this is in accordance with the Constitution. That's it. It has been answered in the answers to the questions that have been raised. Let us, however, talk about what is practical, namely that we must participate fully and fully in Europol. From the majority, from the yes-party side, we have pointed out quite specifically 22 acts that we want to participate in, because we consider that this is something that Denmark benefits from; we consider that it is something that Danish citizens and companies benefit from in everyday life. Finally, I would like to say that it has been mentioned from several quarters that one could only get a parallel agreement. This is certainly the proposal of the Danish People's Party. I do not believe that a parallel agreement can in any way substitute for the fact that we in Denmark should be fully involved. It is also said by the police and the other authorities in this area that they do not want a parallel agreement. They want a full and complete deal. And the only way we can be sure of that is by choosing an opt-in system. Then why have we opted for an opt-in system in which we say yes to these 22 acts? We do, because we believe that the 22 acts strengthen the Danes. We have said no to other legal acts, including some legal acts, which some of the five parties behind the agreement might have thought were right to have included. But we have a principle that it is only where we agree that we choose. This also means that we have the authority in the Folketing so far that it is we who choose what we can choose for the future. Those are the terms. I don't want to hide that. On the other hand, like Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says that when I assess what this Things has the right to choose from decisions in relation to Danish citizens, Danish companies, Danish legal relationships, then the 22 points that we now choose to accept are points in which we can safely choose to participate. Moreover, we have already been very close to what the rest of the EU countries have chosen, but we do not have any influence on what will happen if there is a renewal in this area. By saying yes, by creating an opt-in system, we have the possibility of being able to choose the way of influence in the future and influence if changes occur along the way. That brings the government together to say that we are hoping for a yes. It has turned out that the first reading was not enough to clarify the whole debate, so now we have to see whether the second reading is here. At any rate, I welcome the fact that it is still a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament that supports a 'yes' vote and thus supports the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144459	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There's a bunch of questioners, and the first one is sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144506	I'd like to sign for the Secretary of State's speech. As the Minister himself said, there was not so much new in today's debate, but I can also say that there was not much new in the Minister's speech either. That sounded a little like a record. So I guess there's no one here who owes each other anything. However, I would like to ask the Minister's comment that the government has seen this as almost a waste of time, and it has also been said that there has been a lot of nonsense and false claims. Then the Minister referred to a complete appendix of various ministerial replies which have come from the Ministry. It is, of course, worthwhile for us to have many answers to the questions that are being asked. If, however, the Minister came up with a whole European pallet to stay in the European Parliament with new ministerial statements on all sorts of funny questions, a fool would never be changed at the preface of this bill, and that is that it is not just the 22 acts that we give up. That is all that is outside the 22 legislative acts. We are trying to get the government to see that it is actually quite wrong for Denmark, because in a large number of other areas sovereignty is handed over to a simple majority here in the Folketing, and the Minister must acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144623	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144625	Now it is the case that the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament require the Minister to respond to the debate, and if the debate has been a reflection of the first reading, it would be strange if I did not respond to the debate that had taken place. That is why I have used my speaking time to answer the debate and the questions that have been raised. I would have liked to have seen us spend the time talking about what is more forward-looking than doing a repeat of much of the first reading, but then we would have missed what is the purpose of the Minister's speech at the end. In relation to the confirmation that Mr. His Kristian Skibby wants to know that I've given it several times. I have said on several occasions that this is a question of us holding a referendum because there is a surrender of sovereignty. We make it so clear where it is that we choose to use that surrender of sovereignty, and that is on Europol plus 22 legislative acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144715	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144717	That was the record again. The Minister himself is obviously not aware that there are other things in this bill, and that is what the Japanese are trying to avoid discussing. If you do not want to try to debate it, then that is fair enough, but the Minister must clearly be able to state that it is absolutely correct that there are a whole series of other things which are also renounced in terms of sovereignty. This is, among other things, how the authorisation should be able to accede to a long, long series of other future conventions coming from the European Union. That is what the Minister apparently does not want to debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144753	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144756	I do not understand it because I indicated once again that we are surrendering sovereignty and then I indicated how we choose to use sovereignty. This does not mean that we do not give up sovereignty in the way we do it. I have made it quite clear what is happening. It happens that it will be the Folketing that will be able to choose what we wish to participate in in future. If a new piece of legislation is adopted today, in which Denmark wishes to participate, because it benefits Danish citizens and companies, then we must ask the others for legislation. In the future, we in this Parliament can be allowed to choose for ourselves that Denmark should participate. I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144829	The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144835	The Foreign Minister said that the European Union is moving and, after all, we can agree on that, because the European Union is moving towards an ever closer union, and more and more power is moving to the European Union. Then the Minister said again that this is about Europol. That is why I have to ask the Minister: if it is Europol and the 22 other pieces of legislation that the government has so much hoped for Denmark to join, why on earth are we not only voting on these? Why are we voting on an authorisation for the Folketing to take over the competence laid down in Article 20 of the Constitution? Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110144917	This is really the easiest question of the day, because it is the case that when we are to surrender sovereignty in this area, we do so according to section 20 of the Constitution. We are doing this according to the rules on how to give up sovereignty, and we are doing it in a way, so that means that we are now choosing an opt-in system. We have agreed with the other EU countries that Denmark can have an opt-in system that Britain and Ireland already have, which means that in future it will be the Danish Parliament that chooses what we participate in. I have said several times and I would like to repeat here that the 22 acts are what the parties behind the agreement have agreed to. Then we have said no to ten other specific acts, and we have also said that what is Article 78 and Article 79, namely the area of asylum and immigration, is not included at all. That is what Enhedslisten's long sword of questions to the SF today confirmed: we are not voting on asylum and immigration policy. The Enhedslisten almost regretted that we did not do it; I think it is gratifying that we are not doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145012	Thank you to the Secretary of State. The next question is... there's another round). Sorry, Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145017	Now, listen to this: we can of course choose to join an opt-in system, but still maintain away the provision contained in section 20 of the Constitution that the people should vote if sovereignty is to be given. Why, then, has the government not chosen to take the starting point and say that if we are to surrender sovereignty in the future, it will be after hearing the people or by finding a five-six majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145048	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145050	Because it is the case that I believe that the area in which it is reasonable to give up sovereignty is whether or not we should participate in an opt-in system. That is what we are voting on. Then we have stated politically on the part of the Left and on the part of other parties that if we were to get there at some point, that we should vote on asylum and immigration policy, we would politically demand that this should happen after a referendum. That's what we're saying. There we think there is something special. However, if, in general terms, the rules on restraining the law against spouses were to be changed, the rapporteur's proposal would require a new referendum. I think it is fair that the Folketing should be able to take a position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145132	Thank you. Then the next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145136	The Foreign Minister regrets that there is nothing new in the discussion. So, what is at least new since first reading is the Enhedslisten's proposal. It has come since first reading. That is why it is perhaps a little strange that it is precisely something the Foreign Minister does not comment on, which may be surprising when the Minister for Foreign Affairs is looking for something new. However, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether the Foreign Minister cannot confirm that the Enhedslisten's proposal is fully in line with the answer that has been given by the Ministry of Justice to question 21 and that, of course, it is possible to carry out votes in accordance with Article 20 of the Constitution, if one wishes to do so, in relation to individual acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145219	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145221	I think sir... Søren Søndergaard would be busy enough not to ask this question if he didn't know that the answer would be yes. So I think that the amendment has been drawn up entirely after the answer to Question 21. I just don't agree politically with the answer. I do not believe that it is the case that if you subsequently have a legal act that needs to be changed on a corner, but a corner where it requires a new piece of legislation, then it will require that we in Denmark hold a new referendum in order to do so. And I think that, when I read the comments on the Enhedslisten's amendments, will be the consequences of that, namely that even with small changes, with no real substance, it will require a referendum or five sixths majority in this Parliament, in accordance with the principle of sovereignty. I do not think that is necessary. I believe that in the areas in which we are involved it can be done in exactly the same way as in all the other areas where, since 1972 and Denmark's participation in the Community, we have had a market committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145324	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145326	I am very pleased that we now have both the confirmation by the Ministry of Justice and the confirmation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the proposal put forward here today by Enhedslisten is fully feasible. It is in accordance with Danish law, with the constitution, and it is in accordance with EU law. What is left is why, for example. The government will not support that proposal. And it has to be said that the fact that the government will not support the proposal has the consequence that Article 20 of the Constitution is in fact, de facto, suspended and that, in this respect, the individual acts are indifferent. The Minister has just said this, and that is what the next three weeks will be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145407	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145409	There again we have the trick: No, we have a vote after paragraph 20 and then we see how the outcome will be. I hope that's a yes. Sir. Søren Søndergaard hopes it will be a no. However, the outcome will determine whether or not we participate in an opt-in arrangement, according to § 20. I do not understand the fact that I had to admit something in connection with the Enhedslisten's amendments. In fact, I consider my own amendment, supported by the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Conservatives, and the Enhedslisten's amendments to be the same, in other words, that we indicate that in some areas there is a political will to have a referendum or a five-sixth majority. We are just saying that it should be in the area of asylum and immigration alone, where the Enhedslisten wants it to be in any small area where, for example, we want it to be in any small area. will have an improved legal position vis-à-vis citizens or businesses. Then, according to the interpretation I have of the Enhedslisten's amendments, you must have a referendum or five sixths majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145509	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145514	Thank you. Let me start by correcting the Secretary of State. He came to say that the favourite country of the Danish People's Party is Britain. That is not the case, it is Denmark, and that is why we recommend a 'no' vote on 3 December. Because we care about Denmark and the Danes. Now it has been established, so let me ask the question: the Foreign Minister started out by saying that we have this referendum because the European Union has moved and we therefore have to move with it. What action has the Danish Government taken to prevent this move of the EU and to hold the EU to the place where the Danes in 1993 asked for the EU to be? How has the Danish Government tried to maintain the EU where the Danes wanted the EU to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145605	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145607	It is the way in which Europe moves. Because we are debating how Europol should be forward-looking, and those countries that do not have a legal reservation have decided that it should be moved into the second pillar. This means that Europol will be there, and that means that when it is moved over and Denmark stands still, we will get out of Europol. I know that the Danish People's Party doesn't like it, because the Danish People's Party is trying to draw a picture that it doesn't matter and that you can just bypass it. But when the European Union moves, we will get out of Europol unless we choose to move with it. That is why Denmark has done the job of getting the right content in Europol. But we have not worked against this being another cooperation, because that cooperation is being discussed by those who do not have a legal reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145656	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145658	Thank you. It is of course a pity that the Danish Government does not work according to the wishes of the Danish people for the location of the European Union, but one must accept that as a Dane. I just think it is strange when the Foreign Minister says that it is very important for Denmark that we should maintain this influence in the European Union, when the Foreign Minister is now here admitting that the European Union is simply moving, and then we just have to follow suit in Denmark. So I guess that influence you can win can be in a very small place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145732	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145734	Listen to this once: we have a legal reservation that means that we cannot be involved when the others make decisions. We are outside the decision. That, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen is asking for us to interfere with the decision in an area in which we have a legal reservation. We can interfere if we choose an opt-in system and choose some of the legal acts for which Europol is elected. Then we can get involved. If we interfere in an area where we have a legal reservation today, the others will say: it is not your table. So we do not have the opportunity to interfere where we have a legal reservation. If we are to intervene and help steer the direction of the European Union, we must vote in favour on 3 December and ensure that Denmark is given the opportunity to have an opt-in system where we can take part. When we have a legal reservation, there are a number of areas where we are outside. I do not think that is wise for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145818	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145825	I think things are getting clearer and clearer, and I think that is a good thing, because what this referendum is about, and that is also what comes out here, is who we are talking about, who we are deciding in the future. The Foreign Minister continues to say that we can choose here in the Folketing ourselves, and that is precisely the point. If Denmark is to join in the future it can be in an infinite number of areas of legal policy, around our courts, our family law, the right to strike, the list is endless; we do not know that, because there can be future legal acts • it is a decision that can be taken by a majority of the Folketing without a referendum. If it were the case that we had a history in Denmark that there was a fair match between what the majority of yes parties in the Folketing thought and what the people thought might be safe. But the history is exactly the opposite. It is notoriously the case that the 'yes' parties are usually in a completely different place from the people. We saw this with the euro, and we have also looked at the recent euro measurements, as we have seen in so many areas when we voted on the Maastricht Treaty. Well, that's notoriously the way it is. So I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether it is not true that there is a great risk that when this is left to a majority in the Folketing, decisions will be taken which a majority of the Danes do not agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145951	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110145953	I believe that Enhedslisten's parliamentary group has been on such a rhetorical course, for now they say it was revealed. I would just like to point out once again that if Mr. Pelle Dragsted had participated fully in the debate at first reading, this would have been equally clear to Mr Dragsted. Pelle Dragsted at first reading, as it stands now. Nothing has become clearer and clearer. It has been openly presented from the outset that it is the case that we in the Folketing are allowed to decide for ourselves, instead of the situation that is today, where if we want to participate in an area we have to choose to ask the other countries if we can join in. Today we have to go down and knock on the door and ask the other countries if we can join in. Then they can say yes or no, and we must respect their decision. In the future, Denmark, through the Danish Parliament, can choose to say that we want to be part of that, and we do not want to be part of it. If we want to be involved, the others have no way of preventing us from doing so, because then we have the right to choose for ourselves, and I would rather have the right that lies in the Danish Parliament than it is in the parliaments of the 27 other countries and the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150058	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150101	I don't think I got an answer to the question. I would also like to point out that, although you are not here during a debate, you can fortunately revisit the debates on Parliament's television. So let's leave that claim alone. The fact is that the Enhedslisten has tabled an amendment. That amendment is actually quite simple and, as the Foreign Minister himself says, it is identical to what the government has put forward, and that is why we support it, contrary to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his opening speech. We think that we should have as many referenda as possible in crucial areas, not the areas that the Foreign Minister describes with some small corners, but in other areas, we will manage that with five sixths here in the Folketing. Can the Foreign Minister not once again explain why it is that the Danes should have the opportunity, in a referendum, to block this majority in here from giving power in an area, but in other areas which could be equally crucial to the lives and welfare of the Danes, that is something that they want to hold to the yes parties, and that decision should be able to take over the Danes' heads?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150159	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150201	If that's the case, sir. Pelle Dragsted has re-examined the first reading, it is only a rhetorical trick to say today that something has been clarified and something is new if it was mentioned at the time. That is why Mr. Pelle Dragsted must have followed closely what was said then. In relation to the Enhedslisten's amendments, Enhedslisten is tabling an amendment stating how you want to use an option system if you have it. We also have an option system and how we want to use it. We have indicated that. In relation to whether you are in agreement with the population, that was the first, Mr. Pelle Dragsted said, may I not just remind you that last time we had a referendum, we got a recommended yes, a very, very clear support from the people for what we said we should have, I guess I'd be happy to correct it if I remember wrongly against Enhedslisten's recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150247	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150253	Then I would actually like to follow up right where the Secretary of State actually left off. Because it is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that the government has proposed some form of electoral system and that the amendment tabled by Enhedslisten, on which we are to vote today, proposes a different type of electoral system. The Minister talks a lot about this here we are and the Foreign Minister means by us when the Enhedslisten talks about the possibilities that we think we think that is why we propose to send all major things, where there is no five sixths majority, to a referendum. Just like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we believe that this should be the case in the area of asylum, for example, if this is the case. to change significantly on the Danish courts in the future. So why is it that the government's opt-in system, where there is one possible referendum, is better than the Enhedslisten's opt-in system, where there is the possibility of more in key areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150405	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150407	First of all, I should like to begin by looking forward to it. I would like to welcome the fact that the Enhedslisten, with their amendments, confirms that the way in which the government has proposed an amendment that ensures how to make a future procedure is a strong way of doing it. For Enhedslisten has chosen the same approach • just with a much wider scope, in relation to what should be referendum about. I think it is excellent to confirm that this is a strong way of doing so, because there are others in this Parliament who have said that it does not matter at all what the amendments say. Now, it's gratifying that we agree on it so far, so well. Then I just don't think that the scope that Enhedslisten is setting is necessary in relation to what is then being changed. If the bankruptcy regulation were to be amended, it would be one of the things that would need a five-sixth majority in the future or a referendum in order for us to be able to take part in it on the Danish side. I believe that, like what we can decide on in the field of business or taxation, it is not a matter of scale, so it should be dealt with in the future by a majority of five sixths. This can be decided on on an equal footing with other areas by the Parliament, which the Danes have composed in a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150520	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150521	I don't know why the Secretary of State was just surprised there. In other words, we support the government's amendments because it ensures that people are consulted if more self-determination is given. That is why we have also tabled another amendment to ensure that people are heard even more if self-determination is given in large, violent areas. The Foreign Minister says that this will not be supported because it means referendums every time there is a small change. No, it doesn't. If there is just a tiny change, you can settle for five sixths of a majority. Our amendments ensure that major key areas of self-determination and sovereignty are put to a referendum. Why doesn't the Secretary of State want to be a part of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150606	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150607	First of all, I should like to say that it was not such a surprise; it was just a gratifying observation that I had not made earlier in my speech. Because I think it is gratifying that Enhedslisten thereby confirms that the government has chosen a strong way. Enhedslisten just wants it on a larger scale than the government wants. Then why don't we want it? We do not want to do so because, for example, we do not want to do so. Considers that there is no guarantee that there will be a five-sixth majority in the Folketing for small changes. That is why we believe that any changes that may be made should follow the normal procedure. When looking at the 22 acts adopted, they are in line with other areas to which the European Committee of the Folketing can today agree or which the Folketing can endorse if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150648	Thank you to the Secretary of State. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150653	Thank you, and now to something else: firstly, I would like to ask the Minister not to travel around claiming that the Enhedslisten is in favour of us giving sovereignty to the European Union when it comes to asylum and immigration policy. Enhedslisten has never said that. On the contrary, we believe that in this area too we can and must work together at an intergovernmental level, and the Foreign Minister knows that very well. So don't rush around with that claim. I would like a promise that the Minister will not do so anymore. So I would like to ask: can the Minister confirm that in the legal area of which the referendum is about, more than 600 legal acts have already been adopted in the European Union and that a yes means that a majority in the Folketing, without asking the public, can join Denmark in all these many legal acts if the majority so desires?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150748	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150749	In relation to the number of acts, as Mr. Finn Sørensen mentions that an answer would require that you know exactly what legal acts there are. I don't understand. Finn Sørensen is asking the question here at a time when we have been through a very, very long committee procedure where any question of this kind has been dealt with either by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or by the Ministry of Justice through the ordinary procedures that have been in place. The fact is that in the draft law we have referred to what 22 legal acts we actively want to opt for; we have mentioned which ten legal acts we do not want to opt for; and then we have said that the issue of Articles 78 and 79 concerning asylum and immigration policy will not be debated at all. We are putting this into a particular category, in which we politically state that if we are ever going to go in that direction, it will first require a new referendum in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150846	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110150853	Thank you. Now I think that the burden of proof in this matter lies with the government. It is the government that wants to abolish the legal reservation. We should then have done the same, for example. to look up the Internet in EUR-Lex, where you can see how many acts have already been adopted. You can also see how many proposals are on the way. There is also the fact that a yes means that a majority in the Folketing, without asking the public, can join Denmark for an infinity of legal acts that may come forward. That's what a yes means. Then I just think it would be honest and honest for the government to tell the public that this is the case, rather than giving the impression that it is only 22 acts which, moreover, will not be properly accounted for. There we have asked whether we can find out what the legal situation is in the other Member States as far as this is concerned. Then we shall have something, I think, hovskisnovski is told that it will take far too long to examine it, that it will not be possible to do so, and that, moreover, it is not expected that the results will be in line with the efforts made. Is it not reasonable that, when it is the government that wants to abolish the reservation of law, it should be left open to the public what the consequences are?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151001	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151002	Now, once again, we have a member from the Enhedslisten who asks me to confirm that this is about the surrender of sovereignty. If Members of the Enhedslisten speak in future about who should ask what, and I answer it, then perhaps we could have time for some other questions. Because I have said clearly that when we have a referendum here, it is because it is a question of surrender of sovereignty. We have clearly stated how we want to make use of the surrender of sovereignty, what 22 acts we have jointly chosen to choose for. But it is a surrender of sovereignty. That is why we have the vote and we indicate what future procedure will be in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151042	We have another question. Mrs. Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151046	Thank you. The Minister says that by a yes on 3 December we will have more power here in the Folketing to choose to do so in relation to the European Union. I fully agree with the Minister, but at the same time we are depriving the ordinary Dane of the right to participate in that decision. We see time and time again that there is much more scepticism among the population with regard to the European Union than there is with the yes parties in the Folketing. Then it seems to me that the ja parties are now pushing for power to decide without involving the population, simply because the Danish people are not working. Like the Foreign Minister, I come from Jutland, and there we don't call it slaves, we actually call it a disaster. Will the Minister guarantee that a 'no' on 3 December will respect the people's judgment and not demand a new vote in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151145	The Secretary of State. Can we just get a little more quiet?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151146	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Karina Due for confirming that by a yes the Folketing will have much more to say in relation to the other countries. I think it is gratifying that the concession by the Danish People's Party came on the table. In relation to how you choose to use that influence, I will not draw any conclusions as to whether the parties choose to involve ordinary Danes. It is well known that some parties are more top-ranking than others. I can say that in the Left, when we take a position on a whole range of issues, we involve our Members and we have a dialogue with the citizens on how this should happen. You use social media, you use traditional media, you use meetings to hear what happens, and you involve citizens in the decision-making process. But I can only answer for my own party and not for the decision-making procedures of other parties. To the question of whether to respect a decision: Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151241	Mrs. Karina Due's apostate. There are no more questioners, but Mr. Enhedslisten's. Søren Søndergaard has asked to speak in another round. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151303	After all, the Secretary of State came up here and threw a large pile of documents on the table. It was all these answers that were given to the questions, and the Foreign Minister then hoped that we had read them. And yes, I am sure that all members of the Folketing have of course read them. That is also why I have to say that this is after-the-counter, because just as among the answers to those questions, there are some who are quite excellent and thorough and thanks to the officials for that, we also have to note that there are a large number of people who simply refuse to answer the questions, where they simply do not relate to them. A few examples: please tell us how many times Europol has provided information on Danish citizens to third countries. That's relatively interesting when we talk about register security. Or a question about how many times Norway has been denied access to Europol databases. It is quite interesting when we are talking about a Norwegian scheme and what that will mean. And the answer from the Minister is that it will be far too extensive to investigate, it is not possible at all. Or an even more concrete question which has to do with the daily lives of people or at least for some people. That is where we ask, for example. on how many countries legally recognise co-mothers and whether recognising co-mothers has implications for decisions in cases such as: custody. We are talking about specific people out there, not in this Chamber, but in the country, which may be affected by the fact that there are countries that do not recognise fellow mothers, so that they can be hit in cash. And what does the Minister say? The Minister replies: A full answer to the question will require extensive collection of information, including, among other things, the following: We just have to note that a number of the answers that have been given do not leave any room for real discussion. We think this is a pity, especially since it is the Minister and the government who have set the short deadline. Finally, I would like to say that we do have a specific amendment from the Enhedslisten here. We are pleased that the alternative, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance support that proposal because it is not an ideological proposal. It is simply a proposal that we do not transfer power from the people to a random majority in the Folketing; that we maintain that there are major decisions relating to the surrender of sovereignty, then in the legal field it is ultimately the people who have to help make that decision. That is why I hope that the other parties in the Folketing will vote in favour of this amendment, because then we will be able to give substance to the rest of the debate on the specific legal acts, whereas if the government and other parties vote against it, it is an expression of the fact that Europol, as a crowbar, wants to have an unlimited opportunity to transfer sovereignty. And then it's just like the example I gave. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has 100 DKK. By me, for me to get the Secretary of State's credit card and code? Well, that's what this is about. It's very good to get 100 kroner, yes, but if what you pay is something that can be much more expensive, then you shouldn't. We in the Danish Parliament should not do that, and we think the people should not do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151645	Thank you to the rapporteur. I should like to know if anyone else wishes to speak. There is not, and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151654	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment, 32 (DF and EL), against 77 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. Secondly, we shall be voting on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (EL) and joined by another minority (LA and ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment 46 (DF, EL, LA, ALT), against 62 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Secondly, we shall be voting on Amendment No. 3 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen), elected by a majority (S, V and KF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment 78 (S, V, EL, LA, RV, SF, KF) voted against 30 (DF and 1 (LA) (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. It has been proposed that the proposal be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151852	The debate is open. I would like to ask you to leave the Chamber calmly so that we can continue the negotiations. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nick Hækkerup, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110151937	Thank you. Social democracy supports membership of the bank for three reasons. The first is that it looks after foreign policy interests. Membership of the bank is a signal that Denmark is interested in and wants closer ties with Asia, not least China, and the bank gets a size after that, so that it can have a real impact on the development of Asia, which is why it is of course important that we are involved. The second is in relation to the defence of development policy interests. Among other things, the Bank has: to promote sustainable development and strengthen cohesion through infrastructure and investment, with particular attention to the least developed countries. The third is that this is also about safeguarding our own commercial interests. The Bank will be able to help open markets to Danish companies both directly and indirectly and thus be of importance to the companies' ability to sell their products on those markets, and this in turn leads to jobs being created at home for the benefit of growth and welfare. It appears that the bank will initially concentrate on the transport, energy and water sectors, all areas where the needs are enormous and where Denmark has a lot to offer. For these three reasons, there is every reason to support our membership of the bank. The motion for a resolution shows, and I quote, that during the negotiations on the establishment of the bank, Denmark has worked to ensure that the bank, including in its policies, meets international standards in terms of governance, procurement rules, poverty orientation, environmental and climate considerations and social responsibility. It is important for the Social Democratic Party that Denmark's efforts in these areas bear fruit. It has been explained that a good deal of progress has been made, but it is something that has not yet been completed, but we will, of course, follow the further work with interest. Finally, we note with satisfaction that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in reply to question No. 1 states that it is the assessment that governance and decision-making procedures meet the standards that should be required of international development banks. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can support the draft parliamentary resolution on Denmark's ratification of the agreement establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110152202	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110152222	The Danish People's Party has examined with interest the Government's proposal for ratification of the Agreement establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Dansk Folkeparti notes that the Bank's objectives include: is promoting sustainable economic development, creating prosperity and improving infrastructure links in Asia. Dansk Folkeparti also notes that the purpose of the bank is, among other things, to: to be implemented by using the available resources to finance such development in the region. The resources referred to are, among other things: total approx. 500 million kr., as the government proposes applied to the bank; in addition, approx. 2 billion kr. as guarantee capital. As far as the Bank's main objective is concerned, namely the development of infrastructure in Asia, the position of the Danish People's Party is that infrastructure is an extremely important element, partly in the fundamental development of any region and partly subsequently in order to maintain or even further develop an acquired position. The proposal put forward shows that the Minister for Foreign Affairs shares the view of the Danish People's Party on this point some way along the way. In fact, it would be desirable for the Minister of Foreign Affairs's positive view of infrastructure to rub off on other parts of the government, as it were. in relation to the necessary extension of motorway E45 between Randers and Horsens; here is a slightly more subdued commitment to infrastructure investment. Who knows, maybe this Asian investment bank will come to the rescue of East Jutland before the government does. But back to the bill. As I said, ratification will entail an expenditure of 500 million in the state budget. kr. It has to be said that there is nothing wrong with the level of ambition. However, in order to ensure that the funds become a reasonable investment, it is very important, in the opinion of the DF, that the government should take action to ensure that Danish companies are taken into account when the investment bank's projects are to be implemented. As in all other contexts, where Denmark accounts for significant resources in development, it is important that the government continues to ensure that the funds of the investment bank are managed properly and with care. The Danish People's Party is convinced that the government can agree to this, and the Danish People's Party welcomes the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110152441	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110152449	Thank you, President. The previous speakers have very well explained the content of this quite comprehensive basis for the present motion for a resolution. This kind of international agreement is actually quite complicated. On the other hand, the aim is easy to understand: it is about creating development and prosperity that hopefully can help lift some of the world's poorest countries out of poverty. The creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is an important tool for helping developing countries in Asia, in particular, with self-help. A well-developed infrastructure is essential for creating growth and development in many of the countries in Asia where prosperity has gone in a bow around it. Here, a loan from the investment bank can be a great help in initiating essential investments in the infrastructure. A good example could be Myanmar, which has just held the country's first free elections. If the democratic forces in the country are to have any opportunity to change the lives of the millions of poor, it requires support from the outside world. Here the investment bank can play a very important role. This applies both to improving Myanmar's own infrastructure, but also to linking it with neighbouring countries and the rest of the region. For the Left, it is important that Denmark participate actively in the investment bank by providing capital. In this way, Denmark helps to create opportunities for sustainable development while increasing cooperation between the Asian countries. A crucial factor in setting up the investment bank is that the Asian countries themselves contribute funding, even from certain countries, with quite considerable amounts. The developing countries are thus helping to take responsibility and to take up the risk which, of course, is associated with being part of an investment bank. It is also essential that the investment bank is a broad cooperation between traditional donor countries in the West and the countries of Asia. Danish participation in the investment bank may in the long term have an impact on Danish business and the possibility of increasing exports to Asia's many emerging economies. Denmark is thus sending out a clear signal that we give priority to Asia and development in the region, and this will undoubtedly be an advantage for Danish companies specialising in energy, the environment and water. The Left can therefore support Denmark's presence in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and vote in favour of the proposal. I would just like to say that this speech was also made on behalf of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110152734	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110152743	Thank you. Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is a lovely light and manageable word. The Enhedslisten is critical of the content of the word and of the proposal. The most important argument against supporting it is the absurd use of so much money from development aid to promote Danish commercial interests, while at the same time cutting down so brutally, especially on development aid. We see Danish participation in the bank as part of the government's co-thinking policy on development and foreign policy, i.e. that Danish participation in development must also be reduced and thus subject to industrial and security policy interests. In this context, the Danish commercial interests in Asia are particularly important. The Finance Act, for example, says:: Denmark must also make a difference in other countries, for example: in Asia, where opportunities for interaction with Denmark's commercial interests are also significant. • And further: • development assistance is focused on organisations and themes that most effectively promote Danish priorities and deliver results. As for this bank, it's been called China's Trojan horse. It must be seen as a Chinese interest in strengthening its position in the area and internationally with the inspiration of other great powers' good experiences with the development banks, such as: World Bank. A lot of countries apart from Denmark want to join, as most people may have lurked that it pays to try to get a bite of China's cake and be good friends with this country. I have a strong feeling that the government, under the guise of development aid, wants to strengthen cooperation with China in order to gain better commercial interests in the region. So little about free trade and investment banks: although China is the largest investor, it seems that the bank will be created with the inspiration of other development banks. An official statement, for example, says:: Foundation will be built on international best practices and the lessons and experiences of existing Multilateral Development Banks and the private sector. Well, well, then we know what we're dealing with. Although we do not yet know the bank's practice, as it has not been established, it is likely to borrow money in exchange for liberalisations, structural adjustments, etc. Furthermore, it is likely that the type of infrastructure for which loans will be granted is primarily about improving the export and transport of natural resources and goods. Another concern we have is how we guarantee workers' rights and the environment in an organisation dominated by China, which, after all, does not have the best reputation in these two areas, and which is inspired by other development banks, which have, of course, devastated the globe in a very negative way. It would be natural to ask the Minister how on earth he will secure it by investing in such a bank. One final point is that some will applaud the initiative, as it is seen in itself as positive that it is breaking with the US rulership. I personally do not think that the Chinese-dominated development bank will differ significantly from the banks we know. Still others speak of a new Chinese imperialism or even subimperialism. I will conclude by saying that we are critical of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110153122	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110153137	In the Liberal Alliance we see it as such in relation to this resolution that we absolutely think that there are very good arguments for Denmark to join, and then there are some elements and some issues that make us perhaps also a little concerned. For, of course, the argument that Danish membership in the long term can open up Asian markets to Danish companies is more than they already are, and also the strategic aim that this will strengthen our ties with Asia overall, and we are in fact fully in agreement with and fully in agreement with those arguments. If we are also a little concerned then it is more related to the economic aspects of the proposal that Denmark should pay 500 million in a capital injection and this guarantee guarantee of 2 billion. kr. 2 billion kr. is quite a lot of money and, of course, we are concerned about the risk that the 2 billion will fall if the bank is unable to comply with its obligations. In relation to the 500 million to be financed within the framework of development aid, I think it is right to question whether spending 500 million is a proper priority. kr. of our development aid at a time when the refugee crisis in and around Syria is escalating day by day. With those words, I would like to say that we are in a position to take a positive view of the proposal as a starting point, but we will do our final position when we are more enlightened than we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110153323	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110153339	There are many positive elements in the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, ALLB. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that the main objective of the Bank's creation was to promote sustainable economic development and regional cooperation in Asia through investment in infrastructure. The Bank is expected to play a very important political and developmental role for Asia and will also be growth-creating and open markets for Danish companies. Membership of the Bank, as the Foreign Minister points out, will undoubtedly strengthen the possibility for Danish companies to be eligible for contracts offered. At the same time, Danish membership of the bank is an important signal to the Asian countries that Denmark wants closer ties with Asia. This could be used both to influence the development of the countries in a positive direction and to spread knowledge of Danish primary competences within, among other things, Denmark. The energy sector. Danish membership of the bank will therefore be foreign policy, foreign economic and development policy important to Denmark. It also counts on the plus side that Denmark, during the negotiations on the establishment of the bank, has worked to ensure that the bank meets international standards in relation to, among others. management, procurement rules, poverty orientation, environmental and climate considerations and social responsibility. In addition, studies are also being carried out on a possible specific fund within or outside the AIIB, which can be targeted specifically at investments in climate- and environmental-friendly solutions. So what's the problem? Well, the alternative thinks it is a huge problem that it is expected that the Danish contribution of 1⁄2 billion. kr. All or part of this could be categorized as development aid. This is particularly so in view of the fact that the Government has strongly downgraded bilateral cooperation with Asia in its 2016 Finance Bill. The question for the alternative is first and foremost whether development aid through the private sector will reach the 1.2 billion people estimated by the UN to be living in extreme poverty today and to what extent the donor countries' own trade interests will affect the design of development aid in the future. When Denmark uses funds earmarked to combat poverty, there must be a clear result for the world's poorest. This effect shall be measurable and documented. Without discussion, the environment is a very important element in the fight against poverty. The question here is how prominent a place the environment will have and how prominent a place Danish business interests will have. Despite all the positive elements of the resolution, the alternative cannot support it if it is to be financed from development aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110153717	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110153728	Thank you very much, President. The Radical Left is in favour of this proposal. It's because of a lot of things. First of all, this is actually a rather unusually open invitation from China, not least in terms of getting in and influencing the entire investment strategy facing the Asian continent. After all, the OECD expects that over the next 15 to 20 years we will experience a doubling of the world's GDP, and that will change a great many things, geopolitically, commercially, innovation, and crucial to whether the growth we are going to experience over the next 15 to 20 years will actually be sustainable both in a social, in an environmental and in an economic sense, is that the investments made over the next 15 to 20 years are the right investments. Having the opportunity to influence those investments is therefore clearly in Denmark's strategic interest, both for the sake of the environment and the climate, for the sake of influencing social development in Asia and also in our economic interest. That is why we believe that this is the right decision to take. But, of course, you have to go because you want to use that membership for something too. That is why there must be a strong call here for the Foreign Minister and the government to be active, I would almost say active membership of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. First of all, of course, I am thinking of ensuring a setup in an organisation that is transparent, which is open, which follows the international rules of the game that we know, including that the majority decides. Secondly, I am thinking of the fact that we would so much like to use membership to push on so that the investments that are being made move in a more sustainable direction. Denmark has a unique starting point here, because we already have close cooperation with a large number of Asian states, not least China, in that particular area, and there is even great respect for Danish experience here, and therefore I think it makes sense that we are also trying to take that spirit and cooperation with us in order to try to influence the decisions of the investment bank. Thirdly, there are often many people who, like this, put up a contradiction between having such economic cooperation as what we are discussing today, and then fighting for human rights and democracy and other values in countries such as China and other Asian countries. I would like to say that my experience is quite the opposite. I believe that the closer we come to decision-makers in these countries, the greater the opportunity is also available to use the new cooperation to bring down the constant critical dialogue on cooperation, and I would therefore also call on the Foreign Minister to use this new opportunity to strengthen the critical dialogue, not least with China. All in all, there are plenty of good opportunities, but of course you can also say a duty and a need to use that membership actively.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110154051	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110154104	We are also in favour of this proposal as a starting point. It can be said that, in a sense, it reflects some of the changes in the power structures that are taking place in the world in these years, when China is increasingly trying to challenge the American hegemony, and this is an expression of their desire in the economic field to be able to provide an alternative to the institutions that are currently known. That is also one of the reasons why, to put it mildly, the United States has not been happy with this initiative and that they have seen it as a competitor of US dominance in the financial markets. That's why it's interesting that there's a Chinese alternative here. I also agree with those who have said that this was a very open invitation from China and that in this context it is true that we have responded positively to it and that it is natural that it is part of Danish foreign policy that we go in and influence it and try to influence the direction that the investment bank should take and that we also use the opportunities to gain more Danish influence in that area of the world. It must then be said that the funding, as others have said, is not in order. This is, of course, part of the fact that the government is already cutting back on aid from the developing countries, which it seems to us is extremely unsatisfactory. And there is, if I may say so, more of what could have gone to the fight against poverty, because it has to be thrown in as a capital injection into this investment bank. I'm not so afraid the money's gonna be lost. I'm sure they don't. I think it will be quite, quite effective, because the Chinese are talented and there will also be a broad board behind this, so that is not what I am worried about. That is more the context in which it forms part. So with the critical remark, I would like to say that we are positive about this proposal, but we do not think that the funding is in order, also because it is linked to the cuts in development aid that the government is going to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110154354	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110154410	Thank you for your many comments on the motion for a resolution. First of all, I would like to thank you for the broad support behind what seems to be going to be. I think I have to say, however, that I am not sure that the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank covers East Jutland. And as much as we want the E45 to have a rapid expansion, even with the possibility of a rapid settlement of a very urgent traffic challenge, it will therefore hardly be AIIB that provides the funding for enlargement. At any rate, I would say that would be somewhat detrimental to the concept that we have signed up to from the start. Otherwise, I'd just like to say to Mr. Simpson, too. Christian Juhl, that we from the government are part of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank for several reasons. We are involved for development policy reasons because we believe that infrastructure in Asia is a huge shortcoming that is needed for both energy infrastructure, transport infrastructure and telecommunications infrastructure. And that's why it's important that some people have the muscles to fund it. That's why we're in. We are also involved for foreign policy reasons because we want to contribute to strategic cooperation and strategic partnership with Asia, which will be an increasingly interesting partner for Europe in a wide range of areas. Then we are also with quite open-mindedly not undercover, but completely open-mindedly because we believe that by seeking influence we can influence in the direction of creating better development opportunities for Danish companies, better business contacts. If we push the development bank's focus towards areas within which Danish companies have strength positions, we also have the possibility that it throws orders off. That is why I am pleased to be able to say that, and that is also a little an answer to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who asks us to be proactive in our membership... that we have actually been activist before we became a member. We have been proactive in drawing up both the statutes and in relation to the areas that have been chosen as priorities in the first place. Three priority areas have been selected, namely transport, energy and water areas, in other words three areas where Danish companies, at least within the last two, have clear positions of strength and are already highly recognised in Asia and especially in China in terms of their ability to deliver. Therefore, I would like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that we do nothing under the guise of business interests. This is because business interests are also one of the three legs on which Danish participation in the development bank can stand. Much has been said about what role it will play in the future and asked whether it will now be a competitor and whether it is because China wants a foreign policy weapon. I do not know if it was from the beginning, but if you look at the statutes that are now written, you will see that it is a development bank in line with other development banks, i.e. the Asian Development Bank and the European Development Bank, and in relation to what the World Bank Group is doing. That is why, when we make a deposit here, we also assess it, in relation to where the contribution is to come from financially, in the same way as with all the other groups we support financially. I was just sitting there trying to get through the entire Finance Act on the iPad to get down to what we really support. But if you look up under Section 6 and go down under the World Bank Group, you'll see that in other areas we actually also support with loan facilities through these development banks around the world as part of our development aid. For although it can and will hopefully provide a professional gain for Denmark, and even if it will give us a strategic foreign policy interest, the purpose of the bank is the reason why it is there to be a development bank; to combat poverty; to create links, new opportunities, better transport, more stable energy, cleaner water, better management of waste water and thus help to create a positive human development that is in line with the new world goals adopted by the UN at the summit prior to the General Assembly this year. In relation to the bank, it can also be said that perhaps from the beginning it was looked at with some scepticism by the Anglo-Saxon world, by the United States, it has become the case that a large number of the European countries with which we are normally associated are now with us in the Alib and that the World Bank is working with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank on a number of specific projects. I even think that the Asian Development Bank will find it interesting to work with them. That is why it is quite excellent that we are in it. To one of the very specific things that has been asked, that is to say, in relation to the concern of the Liberal Alliance as to whether we are going to commit ourselves to more, I would say that this way of financing the credit institution is to give a concrete deposit and to provide a guarantee we have done before. And after a quick consultation of greater expertise and some with a better memory than myself, I would say that we have not succeeded in finding an example of how such a guarantee has been activated. So I don't think that's gonna happen in this case either. In relation to the fact that we are financing it in the field of development aid, it is also for the Alternative, I would say: yes, because it is a development project and we choose to go into this because we believe that here we are getting more development than if we chose to spend the money elsewhere. At the same time, we get a plus in relation to foreign policy pressures from other countries. So I'm just gonna finish by saying to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, who made a call for an activist foreign policy, that I am always happy about it when it comes from the Radical Left, and that I listen very much to it. As I said, we are not just going to do it forward, because I believe that we have already done so now in relation to getting the right statutes, the right guidelines and the right priorities for the first few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155024	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155029	I am completely reassured by the Minister's replies, because then we are on the right track with our criticism of this bank, I understand. What often happens is that business interests take precedence over development interests or that security policy interests prevail and that development money is then used to clean up after misguided and wrong wars. That's what we're worried about. And we are worried that these banks, as a major trend, have had the function of creating greater inequality in the world when they have been out making their demands on countries in the form of liberalisations and structural adjustments. I can only remember two countries which have had a minor inequality when they had finished an adventure with one of these banks, namely Argentina and Iceland, which made some counterclaims and said: we should not borrow money if it is the case that we have to destroy our system that benefits the poorest in the country. That's why I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155133	The Minister for Foreign Affairs,
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155135	It is difficult to find the question, but it is also short remarks, so I want to replicate that I think it is difficult to find a country that has been forced by a development bank to accept a loan that it did not want. I think it is difficult to find a country where money has, as it were, been squeezed into the country's treasury, even though the Minister for Finance has said that it would rather not have it. So we should not leave it to the countries, I would say to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, himself to assess whether they want to apply for a loan on the terms of the loans which are now provided by the Asian Development Bank, by the World Bank or, as here, by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. With regard to the priorities, I would like to reiterate: we are in the bank because it is a development bank. It helps to create development, to combat poverty. Next to that, there are some winnings, I don't want to hide that. I would say that it is good that they are there, but that we are not there because we have the benefits of strategic foreign policy cooperation or Danish corporate interests. We're in AllB because it's a development bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155242	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155247	Now it is rare that countries that are on their asses financially feel that they have any freedom to decide where they want to go... Fourth Vice-President (Mette Bock) rise It had Argentina, and it had Iceland, and fortunately they stood firm. The IMF said to them: okay, then we'll find a new way to do it, because we'd like to help you anyway. Fortunately, it is also becoming a trend towards these banks in some critical parts of the world that you cannot run the old-fashioned model, because it does not even provide development. After all, the World Bank shows a string of bad examples of how to destroy countries. That is why we are warning against it, and that is why we are saying that that basis must be in order. We have to see where that bank is going before we have to get money in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155337	Minister for Foreign Affairs
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155338	I strongly disagree with the assessment of the World Bank. I believe that it is an excellent institution which has helped to bring about the progress that has been made over the last 15 years, that we have not only achieved the goal of halving the number of extremely poor people in the world, but that we have more than achieved the target we have more than halved the proportion, among other things. Because of the fact that the World Bank has helped to create development. It has helped to lay down the requirements for a better industrial situation in the countries concerned. So I basically disagree with Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155409	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155427	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dam Kristensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155454	The UN has asked Denmark to contribute further to a conflict in Mali, which we know and which has been escalating for a long time and is a violent conflict. I do not want to say that I think the government got into that debate elegantly, but leave it alone. The starting point of the Social Democracy is that when the UN asks for help, we owe it at least to the UN to consider it very carefully. That is what we have done in the Social Democratic Party, and we think that the contribution that the government is now asking us to make is a sensible contribution. I guess that's how we contribute in three areas. On the one hand, the number of staff officers, whom we now have 20 down there, can be increased to up to 30 people. On the one hand, there is a contribution that applies to transport aircraft. We all know that the need for transport is crucial in such conflicts. Finally, there is probably what has been most focused on, namely that we also need special forces for up to 8 months, 30 men, to Mali. That is because there are some tasks that only special forces are able to handle, but which are important. It is the acquisition of intelligence, it is long-term patrol activities, etc. that we think are sensible. The starting point is then also that it is a UN mandate. We would like to acknowledge that this morning the Minister for Defence informed the parliamentary rapporteurs quite thoroughly about the UN mandate. I think this was quite useful, both when it comes to the possibility of prisoners being taken, but also because we have a contribution here, which is what we define as a hard contribution. I would therefore like to say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party that we support the government's motion for a resolution to provide UN assistance in Mali.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155643	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155657	The Danish defence will of course be used to defend Denmark. It's in the name. When there are wars distant from Denmark, where Denmark has no national interests, and there are no threats to Denmark, it does not always make sense to use the Danish defence. This is nice to do-missions and not need to do-missions. Mali is such a nice to do mission. But such a nice-to-do mission is not very nice if there is a very high security risk for the personnel in custody, and that is where it is. Several UN soldiers have been killed as a result, among others. roadside bombs in Mali. Nor is it very nice when the operation is costly and the defense lacks money. Finally, it is not so nice that our special units should be deployed as UN soldiers, but with tasks that tone down the neutral UN perspective. They come under their duties with intelligence to look like participants in an African civil war suspiciously much. This is an uncertain situation that worries us in the Danish People's Party. Either you are a UN soldier with everything that it requires of neutrality and clear blue markings, or you are an active participant in war. We are very concerned about sending soldiers on something that looks like a middle-point between these two poles. All in all, the circumstances surrounding this mission concern us so much that we think it would be wrong to support this resolution. So we don't support B 26.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155830	Thank you. There are a few questions, and the first questioner is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155836	The Danish People's Party attaches great importance to the fact that if you are to send soldiers out, it must be to defend Denmark, and therefore you are against it here. Could the rapporteur not tell me the difference between this and Afghanistan? To what extent has the fact that we have been in Afghanistan for so many years been a direct defence of Denmark? Has it been more so than this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155859	It has been because there was a threat from Afghanistan because Al-Qaeda operated out of Afghanistan. It was like the purpose of the Afghanistan operation. And then they wanted to destroy the possibility that al-Qaeda could be rebuilt.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155917	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110155919	Well, there are terrorist groups in Mali, too. And I think that one can argue that the terrorism in Mali is as great a threat to Denmark as Al-Qaeda and the Taliban were in Afghanistan. So I do not think that the arguments put forward by the Danish People's Party are connected at all. I therefore agree that there is no direct military threat to Denmark in Afghanistan, and perhaps not in Mali, but a military threat is not always an argument for finding it reasonable to go somewhere, because there may be other issues, for example. refugees who are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160003	There are different degrees of threats. It is true that there are Islamic groups around the world, and if we wanted to eradicate Islamic groups around the world, we would certainly get very, very busy. That is why, of course, we need to give priority to saying that they are the ones who have the capacity and the ability to actually threaten us, to whom we must use our very limited resources. That is why it makes sense for us to be active in the fight against the Islamic State in Iraq, but it does not make sense for us to be active in Mali, where, moreover, many others can take on these tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160045	The next question is Mr. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160049	Thank you. I just think it was a little unclear in the rapporteur's speech: are the Danish soldiers we send off marked as soldiers who have been sent out and participate in a UN operation, or are they not?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160109	They are, but they are not clearly marked. They may participate in operations where their markings and their UN legitimacy are toned down so that they are not exposed to additional risks. You can understand that, of course, but it just gives us some sort of grey area that we do not like to see our soldiers in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160124	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160127	Does the rapporteur not agree that if those soldiers are sent on a mission such as the one in the United Kingdom? It is a question of collecting information, of monitoring, of observing, so can they not have a blue flag hanging over their heads, because then it is difficult to fall into the terrain? Is the rapporteur not confident that the Danish soldiers will, of course, have a sleeve mark on which they say they are part of a UN operation, but also that they will be able to adapt the marking to the task they are going to carry out? And is that not in line with the UN mandate you have?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160200	I have so much respect for the Danish soldiers that I do not want to send them on missions that can in any way give them a lack of clarity, and I believe that this is a lack of clarity. I do not want to send Danish soldiers on missions where it is not absolutely clear whether you are a warrior or you are a neutral UN soldier. I do not think that is a sensible task. Of course, our soldiers can solve the tasks they are assigned to, but I do not want to put them to an unclear task.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160232	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Peter Juel Jensen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160247	Thank you, President. The crisis in Mali is closely linked to wider regional instability that extends into both North Africa and neighbouring countries. This means that several states of the region have limited control over their territories, which has given room for separatists, terrorist groups and organised criminals. At the same time, a massive poverty and lack of job opportunities in the region contribute to irregular migration, among other things. against Europe. On 25 April 2013, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution No. 2100, which established the UN peacekeeping mission in Mali, whose mandate has subsequently been extended. The mandate shall include, inter alia: support for a peace agreement and support for the implementation of a ceasefire and focus on security, stabilisation and protection of the civilian population. Denmark has supported the mission since its establishment in 2013. We are sending out the Danish soldiers with a robust mandate in a mission where we are invited by the United Nations, which means that they are sent out under both international law and the laws of war. The Secretary of Defense had this morning invited the rapporteurs for a review of the mandate, and the rapporteurs were given a thorough and reassuring review as well as a new invitation to follow the transmission from the clear UN mandate to the mission-specific mandate with which the Danish soldiers are sent. The units will primarily deal with more demanding intelligence pick-up tasks, including long-range patrol activities, monitoring tasks and area analysis of local environments. And you want to work with well-known partners. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160442	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160457	The UN has asked Denmark to contribute to the UN Mission MINUSMA in Mali. I think it is very important that Denmark backs the UN and, as the situation is in Mali, I also think there is a need for the UN to be present to help ensure that the peace agreement is respected, to bring relief to the people and to help prevent human rights violations. Therefore, I also warmly support Denmark's need to increase development aid to Mali, and we also supported it in the Enhedslisten when Denmark earlier sent a transport aircraft to the UN mission in Mali. However, the contribution that the government is now proposing, where, in addition to a transport aircraft, Denmark also has to make with 30 hunter soldiers, I think there are some problems and ambiguities which make it impossible for us on the part of the Enhedslisten to support the specific proposal. It is a very complex situation in Mali where it can be difficult to assess which situation we are sending Danish soldiers out to, and I do not think that what the government is proposing here is necessarily what is most needed. It is also a problem that the tasks to be solved and the guidelines for the soldiers deployed are not satisfactorily described. Then it is also just very important for me to say that there is a huge discrepancy in the fact that the government is on the one hand ready to send soldiers, but on the other hand has systematically reduced Denmark's support for UN organisations. This means, for example, that Denmark no longer supports the UN Peace Building Office, which is doing some very good work both in Mali and in a number of other countries also promises a very important task of ensuring peace and stability. I think that is simply the wrong priority at a time when the world is full of war and conflict. That is why we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party cannot support the specific proposal that has been put before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160658	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160704	I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Enhedslisten is saying no to this, because this is a completely classic UN operation, a peacekeeping, peace-building task, and I find it difficult to see that it is not something that the left should support. I understand that this has to be properly investigated, I understand that. Priority can also be discussed in relation to other activities within the UN. But the alternative to this is not the other tasks of the United Nations, it is the war in Iraq. Despite the wishes of the Danish boss down in Mali, when the government sends a much more limited mission, it is because you do not want to empty the box, because you have to decide whether to continue in Iraq. Does the Enhedslisten not think it is more relevant to be in Mali than to be in Iraq?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160813	Thank you very much for the question. Yes, I think it is much more important to prioritise the UN missions than to have the efforts in Iraq, which we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party do not support either. And this also applies to many of the efforts made under NATO. I would also like to emphasise that it is absolutely essential that we have discussed this in such depth in the Enhedslisten that it is precisely a UN peacekeeping mission. As I said, I have great sympathy for the United Nations being present in Mali. But I have to say that at the same time we take a specific position in each case, and that is what is on the table here. In relation to the specific mission, there are some uncertainties that we do not feel safe about, and we do not think that is the right contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160901	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160907	Yeah, but isn't the truth that Enhedslisten wouldn't be able to agree to support this, that you're afraid of internal disagreement, that's what it's all about, and then you find a hair in the soup to go against it? And isn't it about Enhedslisten having at no time supported a military operation, of course, once, and there you quickly withdrew again and that you like per. the definition will not help to support military operations, even if this is a UN mission, even if it is a completely classic UN peacekeeping operation? I really think it is a pity that the left is playing off the field in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110160946	It is true that we in the Enhedslist believe that military intervention should be the very last resort. It also means that it is simply something we can support only in cases where everything else has been tried. But it is not the case that we cannot sometimes support it if, for example, it is. is to prevent genocide or serious violations of human rights and there is a clear UN mandate. Then we can actually support military interventions. We have also previously supported a Danish contribution in the form of transport aircraft and military assistance to MINUSMA in Mali. So, yes, we can support UN missions, even when they are sometimes military aid, but it has to be said that at the same time it is our party democracy, and that is to say our National Executive, which every time makes a very thorough assessment of whether this is a mission that we think it makes sense to support. And here we have some concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161038	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161046	Thank you. Now I am sorry that it is the rapporteur who is standing on the platform and not the National Executive of Enhedslisten, because I can hear that that was where I should have addressed my question. The mandate with which we send out the Danish soldiers and the task with which we send them out must include: ensure that a peace agreement is supported. It supports the implementation of a ceasefire and focuses on security, stabilisation and protection of the civilian population. What is it in the handful of tasks that Enhedslisten's main board has a challenge and thus a problem with? Why won't Enhedslisten back this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161127	What the rapporteur of the Left mentions, that is to say there is a peace agreement in place, is one of the things that has done that we have considered this very, very carefully. I think it is very positive that there is a peace agreement in Mali, which the UN force must maintain. I have to say that I do not think that the tasks that the special soldiers sent out by Denmark have been clearly explained. When, for example, can they do so? Go in and have a more offensive role, and what will happen to the intelligence that they collect? This is one of the things we are insecure about, and I think that is a whole relevant concern for which both the board of directors and myself can fully vouch.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161204	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161208	We were at the same meeting this morning. We had a good discussion about this. I think there was a clear answer to all the questions that were asked. We were given a second round of prospects in connection with the transmission of the UN mandate to a mission-specific task. They've been trying to accommodate us all the way. The problem is that when Enhedslisten does not support this, you are also left with the impression that Enhedslisten is a party that does not go in and take responsibility when we have the very clear mandates, that Enhedslisten does not take responsibility when it comes to protecting a civilian population, implementing a ceasefire and ensuring that the rules of the game are respected. Why is Enhedslisten so irresponsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161252	I do not think it is irresponsible to have a very thorough discussion of the specific situation every time, and I think the rapporteur is quite aware that many of the guidelines for the soldiers deployed will not be ready before the final decision is taken. In fact, I think that is an irresponsible way of dealing with the issue of war. This could easily have been a better process that was stretched further out. That's one part of it. The second is, as I said, that in some cases we can support UN missions, but we think there are some problems in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161322	Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161326	I think that Mrs Eva Flyvholm's analysis of the situation in Mali was actually very precise, and that is why I can also say that I am perhaps surprised at what then came to be the conclusion of that analysis. I would therefore like to ask: if you want a whole lot of good things, what I recognise that the rapporteur spent time reflecting on, can it not sometimes be necessary in order to do the good things to also have to use tough methods? And if you are not able to use the hard methods, for example, when the United Nations is asking for it, can it not stand in the way of wanting the good things?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161402	The UN has asked for a large number of different contributions, and that is the government's choice, it can be said that Denmark is making this particular contribution. There I think there might have been good sense in suggesting some other things. Moreover, I think we should also look at the fact that nothing can stand alone, nor can the military contribution stand alone. First of all, we must make efforts to get political developments moving and also to ensure that there is adequate development in the region. I don't really think enough is being done for that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161428	Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161431	But it was an excellent confession response that was given here, because the UN has asked for a large number of things, that is correct. And what I almost hear the rapporteur say is that some other countries will have to get their hands dirty in order for us to be allowed to have clean hands. That may seem to me to be leaving the problem to some others, because then we will not model it in Denmark. But I just think it's a recognition that you sometimes need to use some a little hard-handed methods to be good. This is accepted by Enhedslisten in the answer here, but some others just have to take care of it. Maybe I don't think that's so sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161509	Our concern is that we do not think that the guidelines for this mission are clear enough. We have to deal with that, no matter what it is. We would have dealt with that too if one had made one of the other proposals. In other words, we have to deal with what is actually there, and we do not think that our concerns have been met there. But yes, there may be a need to protect, for example. emergency convoys and so on, but it is absolutely crucial that we have a broad strategy for what is going on and I cannot understand why the government has chosen to point precisely at this contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161542	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161544	After all, we are all interested in having full clarity about the contributions, and I myself have been very, very concerned about the fact that, for example, if there is one. are taken captives, we know exactly what the guidelines are. In fact, I think that the government has been at a joint meeting of the Ministry of Defence this morning, and it is the United Nations that is going to vouch for any detainees. And in the last 24 hours, I think, we've become much smarter. So I just want to know if Enhedslisten shouldn't consider taking the issue back on his board now that the issues that Enhedslisten had and I also had have been resolved? Because it does not matter whether you signal that you are also ready to support the UN here or not. It is a little too bad, I think, if a UN-friendly party such as the Unity List chooses to allow the United Nations to blunder in a situation like this where the United Nations itself is asking for help.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161645	I very much agree with the radical rapporteur that it is essential to support the UN, and in fact I believe that Denmark should do so in a large number of other areas. As I said, aid to the United Nations institutions has been drastically reduced, and I believe that the rapporteur and I are very much in agreement about this is a disaster and something that needs to be re-established. So, I do not think we are going to get a proper picture of what kind of tasks it is that need to be solved before the proposal is to be dealt with in a week's time. And that is a real concern that is very much in our minds.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161721	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161723	Now we're gonna get a lot of things straightened out. We have already had some clarification today, and it was information that was not available when Enhedslisten held the main board meeting. So my question was whether Enhedslisten's parliamentary group wouldn't consider taking it back to the main board, i.e. because you had an uninformed basis to decide on this weekend.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161742	As I understand it, there will also be a large number of these guidelines which will not be finalised when we vote on it on Tuesday. So I don't think that's gonna change that much. The second concern is what kind of scenario you send people into. And is this something that contributes to peace in the long term, or could we do some other things that were more meaningful?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161807	There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, so thank you for this time. We move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Leif Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110161815	Thank you. It is regularly discussed whether defence policy is not conducted behind closed doors. This is done in the context of major investments, aircraft purchases or missions. This certainly cannot be said about this matter, because it was the press that could tell us that there would now be a request about it. So it can be said that we as a party were actually taken a little with our pants down or whatever we were. But at least we have had the opportunity to express our opinion on what we thought our party would respond to it long before it was even discussed and long before the government even asked us for anything. So it can be said that it is almost as open as it may be, that it is the press that is asking the Folketing to answer whether it is going to support a UN mission. However, we in the Liberal Alliance have not changed our position in relation to what we said at the time, and we can also see that the government has made a proposal for a contribution that is less than the first statement and perhaps more balanced and appropriate. So that's what it is. That is why I just want to say today that this is a UN mission. This is an important mission. It is a measured contribution that is requested and the transport aviation contribution and the special operation in the form of a strength contribution that we can provide here is important. It is peacekeeping, and it is important for Denmark to be there where, in all contexts, we try both to keep peace, but thus also to combat all the actions that create terrorists in the world. And finally, we can say that this can also counteract some of the possibility of emigrates to Western Europe. So with that series of reasons, the Liberal Alliance can therefore support this government proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162025	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. René Gade, rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162037	Thank you. As I said, I am the peace and defence rapporteur in the alternative, and from the outset, even when it came from the press, we have been very positive about this work, as we believe that we have an obligation as a country to participate in the UN operations where it makes sense. That is why we have not really changed our position either. We're still backing up. However, I have to say that we have become a little more critical after our meeting this morning, perhaps because we were very positive at first. But our meeting this morning made me very unsure whether the speed with which this is negotiated is simply too intense. In the alternative, we suffer or have the good thing that we, like Enhedslisten, listen a lot to our hinterland. And speed is sometimes a problem for us when we sit here in the Folketing, where things have to go really fast. And sometimes we talk about the policy of necessity, where we really have to hurry. But this has to come up again on Tuesday, and I simply do not believe that we will have the answers we requested today on Tuesday, and that has nothing to do with the fact that I do not believe that the mission will be as it should be, or that the information I have been given is correct. I simply do not believe that we will have the full basis in writing that we have asked for before Tuesday. Our partners from the Netherlands may also need to provide some information. I do not yet know how and how this is going to happen. So the situation is actually that we are very positive about the efforts, but we should just bear in mind that this effort is being made because some things have happened in Mali that have nothing to do with the United Nations. It is a instability that we have not yet seen how we are going to solve since we have come down there and made this contribution. It's not the government's fault or the defense's fault that I'm not aware of it yet. I am simply the one who has not been asked the right questions yet, so I shall hurry to do so before we meet again. But on the other hand, we have to say that we are sceptical about whether we will be able to obtain the information that is needed before we send our soldiers into action, even if it is a peacekeeping effort, and even if we trust that the intention is the best. I also miss hearing very clearly from the defense that this mission we are about to undertake is something that makes sense for the defence. We've had a military assessment. We must make a smaller contribution than that assessment indicated, as I have understood it, and it is guaranteed that it is right and proper, but it is important to us and is very important to us in the alternative that the people we send should think that what is happening is meaningful. If the mandate from the defence side is as it should be, if everything is applauded and clear and the manual that has been talked about a lot is not necessary, then it hasn't been since 2009, it is said and it isn't now, then it's okay with us. But I am very unsure whether we do not rush through this too quickly. April is a long time away, and if it is because we want the UN to be welcomed with a quick announcement, then I think it would be better to please our defenses and then get things right. And then we will be very positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162356	There are no brief comments to the alternative rapporteur. So we're gonna go over to sir's. Martin Lidegaard, rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162405	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Radical Left is in favour of supporting the motion for a resolution. We are because in our optics there is a clear need, there is a clear UN mandate, and there is a clear mission. The clear need is revealed by the fact that the Sahel province, with Mali as a central player, has the potential to become the next hell that will produce a myriad of refugees who will produce a myriad of displaced persons and who could pose a real security threat both to the European Union, but not least to the many civilians living in the region. Therefore, I have to say that I have a vertical disagreement with the Danish People's Party, which says that this is only nice to have and not need to have. I dare not think about what will happen if the situation in Mali gets out of control. So there is a clear need. There is also a clear • I would almost seldom say clear • UN mandate. Because not only is there an invitation from the Malian Government, but there is also a political agreement signed. It is a genuine peacekeeping mission, in which our task is to help ensure that the agreement negotiated locally can be respected. That means what leads me to it with a clear mission that this isn't something that happens at the expense of other bets in Mali. That is why I do not understand the refusal of the Enhedslisten to contribute to the UN in this context either. On the contrary, I understand that we are increasing support for Mali on the side of development aid, while at the same time doing so here. This means that there is indeed an opportunity for Danish action on humanitarian, development policy and diplomatic, and now also in the military field to go hand in hand. That is also one of the reasons why we think it makes sense to support this effort. But it is clear that there have also been some concerns on our part. I have made it very clear early in the process that I think it was absolutely crucial that the men and women we send out have a clear mandate, even if it is a matter of taking people into prison. I am therefore pleased that this morning the Secretary of Defense had invited us to a briefing which made it quite clear that the Danish soldiers deployed will follow the UN rules and the specific instructions that also lie down over the mission in Mali. At least it was something that comforted me. It is a completely different story from what we saw in Iraq in the '00s, and therefore we look forward to getting the last, you might say, powers in place. We have been promised that we will get it and that it will be within the framework of the UN rules. That makes us feel better. Finally, at a slightly later stage, I think it might also be worth following up on whether there will now also be the contributions to Mali that have been asked for. After all, the government has decided to reject a request to send ground transport forces. It may well be that it makes sense that it is African troops who take that part of the mission. We are in that way on board but, on the other hand, we think it is important that there is enough help to carry out the overall task. That is why we would very much like to keep up with this issue and ensure that the United Nations can, overall, lift this mission, both militaryly and in terms of development policy and diplomatically. With these words, I can therefore say that the Radical Left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162750	There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162754	Thank you for the floor. If the Danish defence is to be deployed where there is a need to combat extreme Islamists around the world there are many of them; that is, Mali is not the only place where how many times does the rapporteur think that the defence budget should be doubled? What is the rapporteur's proposal for the future defence budget? Because it's gonna be a lot of missions we're gonna have around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162831	It goes without saying that Denmark cannot, of course, contribute to all UN missions, or NATO missions for that matter, in the world. Priority must be given to this and, moreover, we expect roughly the same defence budget for international operations in the coming years. But when we think it's a good idea in Mali, it's because Denmark has a history in Mali. We are experts in Mali, if I may say so, because we have been providing development aid to Mali for many years. We have participated actively, including with military contributions, and I think that is why, in this case, the United Nations has specifically asked Denmark about this. Then we have a Danish force chief who enjoys great prestige, and that therefore also means that our soldiers will be in good hands. So there are many reasons why I think it makes sense to prioritise this. And there are not so many other places we have been asked to contribute, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162919	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110162922	So I understand from the rapporteur that no more money should be spent on defence, but that it should just be hyperactive around the world. So may I not just give the rapporteur the advice to give priority to Danish action, according to where the threats to Denmark are greatest, because that is the only thing that makes sense when we need scarce resources. Then, of course, it must be in the neighbourhood and where there is a real threat coming from. And Mali doesn't do that. It may be that there are extreme groups that are correct but there is just so
ParlaMint-DK_20151110163000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110163003	I am seriously afraid that the Sahel province, where Mali is located, has the potential to develop very quickly into a nearby area for Denmark if one understands an area that can produce even very large quantities of refugees for the European continent and therefore perhaps also for Denmark. I think there is a risk of that, and sometimes I think it is a good idea to be at the forefront of such a development before it costs too many soldiers and bombs and before it becomes too expensive. At least that is what I have learned from Libya: there we were too late and it has cost us dearly. But there are 500 million. kr. A year to this. We can afford to go into Mali and at the same time be in Iraq, so I see no priority problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110163042	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110163052	After all, Denmark has a power chief in Mali: Michael A. Lollesgaard, Major General. I think we ought to be proud of that, namely that we have a man placed so high in an important operation. And we should actually support him as much as possible. Therefore, in my view, to the extent that there should be criticism of this, it should be more specific that we are not sending enough, that we have desavouated a wish from Lollesgaard that a much more robust contribution of strength is being sent out. It's something he's been asking for. The government would not do so, apparently because it is nervous that it can weaken the war in Iraq, which seems to be more concerned. You want the F-16s back by force and force, I understand, without knowing whether they will be needed, whether it makes sense whether they can be used at that time. So it has been decided to downgrade the effort in Mali. That's the truth of this. That is why I do not understand why the Enhedslisten is in this way opposed to what we are actually contributing. One should then criticise the fact that not enough is being contributed to the UN, because the UN is important. We believe in the SF that the UN is. Denmark has downgraded the UN for several years in various areas, including military ones. In fact, in the past, we had a tradition of participating very much in UN peacekeeping operations. We have downgraded that. Today it is more NATO operations; it is sharp operations with US leadership that have had a higher priority than the classic UN operations. There is a classic UN operation here and, in fact, I think it is important that we contribute to it, also because the whole situation in Mali is certainly very, very dangerous. One can always discuss what constitutes a danger to Denmark. I understand that the Danish People's Party is trying to patent it. They believe that al-Qaeda, Afghanistan and Iraq are a danger to Denmark and that what is happening in Mali is not a danger to Denmark. I don't agree. In fact, we believe that Mali is very much as much a risk and danger to Denmark as the IS in Iraq and Syria. In addition, IS also operates in Mali. To the extent that you get a terrorist in the whole Sahel region with IS and other terrorist organisations, it is fatal, including for our part of the world. So I very much disagree with that analysis. That's the way it is. But at any rate this makes sense, precisely because it is the United Nations, because it is a peacekeeping operation and because it is an operation in an area which can become quite, quite explosive, also for Danish interests. It must also be seen in the context of the fact that, as with all such military operations, there is no military response to this. Nobody's saying that. After all, it is a question of going in and helping in a political process and ensuring that the civilian population can be there, that the parties are separated when necessary and that society can function in the way society now needs to do, despite the many conflicts there are. This is the classic role of the United Nations in this kind of situation. I think it must be quite natural for Denmark to participate in it, and I really look forward to having a discussion on how Denmark in other areas can prioritise support to the UN, including in the military field.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110163513	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110163530	Thank you. I will go straight to the conclusion, which is that we would have liked to have seen a small contribution to Mali and therefore cannot support the proposal in its present form. We would have liked to have had the opportunity to have a discussion along the way on whether a slightly smaller contribution could be envisaged, but if that is not the case, we do not support the proposal. For our part, this is simply a matter of priority. It is a question of prioritising which conflicts we should be involved in, and it is also a question of prioritising defence resources. If I have to take the last thing first, I would say that it is the case that when I am around talking to people in the defence, I hear everywhere that it is believed that we have thrown Denmark into too many military actions in recent years; that the defence staff have been too tense; that there have been too many broadcasts; and that this is a problem which has contributed to our having this relatively large staff dissatisfaction in defence at the moment. We believe that there should be coherence between objectives and means and that we should be reluctant at a time when we are already having difficulty contributing as much to other conflicts as we would like to do to make as much a contribution to Mali as has been proposed here. It is still not as much a contribution as what the media wanted from the Danish boss down there, but it is a major contribution which is actually not so much less than the contributions we have in Iraq and Afghanistan. With regard to the priority of our resources, to which conflicts should be thrown around, this is a less important conflict for us than the conflicts that exist in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. It is difficult to formalise what are the most important conflicts, and it is certainly not because I will neglect the essential nature of the conflict in Mali. It is of great importance to West Africa and the stability of the region there, so certainly it is a significant conflict which can also, in the utmost consequence, infect Denmark's security policy situation with regard to terrorism, refugees, trade and many other things. So I would not say that it has no relevance to us, but the Conservative People's Party believes, however, that Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan are more relevant to Denmark. We also believe that there is better scope for making a difference there, and we think that the history of our involvement in those countries so far also makes it more logical for us to give priority to those conflicts rather than to scale up as much in Mali as has been proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110163824	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110163835	Thank you to the very many parties that have supported the proposal. I think it is gratifying to see such broad support behind a decision to participate in the UN mission, MINUSMA, which is, in concrete terms, about creating peace in Mali, but which, in the larger picture, is a question of whether one holds together a fragile state in a fragile region; a state that, with the collapse of Libya, is really only one border from Europe. I do not have to hide the fact that, when I assess it myself, but perhaps especially when I have talks with my colleagues from the rest of Europe, I get a very clear picture that, if we do not support peaceful development in Mali, we can, by doing nothing, ensure that a basis is created for a conflict that will spread to other countries, create migratory flows across Africa towards Europe and help foster freedom for terrorist groups, which, unfortunately, we are already establishing and establishing a foothold in Mali. Mrs Marie Krarup said that we were in Afghanistan because there were terrorist groups there or that we were elsewhere because there is a concrete threat to Danish interests. But why wait until the problem has grown big? Why not stop the problem in the bud? Why not be present where we can see that there is a conflict that not only has dangerous potential but is a concrete impact on the whole area and where we can see that there are migratory flows up against Europe, which will only get worse if we do not respond now? I think it is wise and thoughtful to react at this stage. I also think it is wise to make a total contribution, which means that we both support the staff functions at headquarters, provide easier and better transport and also help solve some of the difficult tasks by sending out special strength operations contributions. They must be able to carry out their task effectively, and some of their tasks are therefore to be able to be unseen in order to be able to observe others. It's part of the task of the Special Forces Operations Contribution that we're sending out. There is the fact that it may sometimes be necessary not to be as visible as a UN mission should otherwise be, because it is precisely destroying the task of collecting information. That doesn't mean they're not UN soldiers. They're per. definition when issued. But they must be in such a way that they will carry out the task in exactly the same way that the Dutch special strength contribution has so far done quite well. And the Danish part will be an independent entity in collaboration with the Dutch contribution. I think it is a good thing that a number of the issues raised by the parties have been clarified this morning. I understand from the alternative that you do not think you can get answers to the last questions during the period of time. The Minister for Defence has confirmed that the information will be available in sufficient time to assess it in the run-up to a second reading of the proposal. I am, of course, sorry that, because of the next two weeks of the referendum and subsequent participation in COP21 and other international forums, we have had a small amount of calendar problems, which means that we must try to see whether we cannot clarify the outstanding issues until next week. This will probably be necessary, and we in the government will take care to clarify the issues. However, I think I would like to thank the broad circle of parties, including parties which have usually been more reluctant to send out Danish forces. They have here made an assessment of what is in Danish interest, and therefore they have chosen to contribute and support. I am sorry that it is not possible to have a dialogue directly, as Mr. Peter Juel Jensen said, with Enhedslisten's main board, as it is ultimately they who decide whether Enhedslisten can support it. But I hope that through the dialogue with the Enhedslisten Parliamentary Group we can influence the mood of the Enhedslisten National Executive to see the same as the SF, as the Social Democracy, as the Left, as the Radical Left, as the Liberal Alliance and as the alternative see in the proposal here, namely that they help to strengthen Danish security as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164333	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has wished to speak in the debate, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164355	The debate is open. Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164411	Thank you. The proposers of today's motion for a resolution want to oblige the government to present the decision-making basis for the forthcoming election of Denmark's new fighter aircraft, in order to ensure a transparent and democratic debate. I have great sympathy with the concern of the authors of the motion for a resolution here, but I do believe that the motion for a resolution is superfluous, because I would also refer to the press report yesterday on the process which the government sees for the future decision on how to choose Denmark's new fighter aircraft. Because we want, and I want, a process as open as possible, and that also means that the basis for the decision which brings together and reproduces the evaluation results of the three combat aircraft candidates will be published, and that those things which may then be of either a commercially confidential nature or which may be confidential for military reasons, the Folketing will then have access in the Ministry, so that the parties of the Folketing will have access to all the material underlying the decision to be taken, and thus also the basis for the attitude that the government will adopt to the Folketing in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164602	There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164616	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense for your answer. B 11 is basically identical to a previous motion for a resolution. It is a re-submission and, in this respect, reference can be made to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind, and Nicolai Wammen, Minister for Defence at the time, who explained our position. We note that we will soon be faced with a major decision to buy new fighter aircraft for defence, and that is, of course, for quite a large amount of money. That is why it is a major task that the defence committees have taken on. We also take it very seriously from the Social Democrats. Some people have to pay the bill, which is why it is perfectly understandable that Enhedslisten has put forward this proposal. It is the case that there are a number of things that we have to deal with, and I would like to quote the then Minister for Defence, because there are a number of factual reasons for limiting how open one can be. He said: "At the same time, there are a number of objective and reasonable considerations which make certain information impossible to make public. It may be information that is militaryly classified and it may be commercially confidential information. It is not only about regard for the fighter aircraft manufacturers, but also about security policy considerations regarding Denmark's cooperation relations with the countries involved. It is clear that this is also a negotiating situation. We must not weaken our negotiating situation by providing information about all things. But to that extent, and there I fully share the present Secretary of Defense's view of what can be put forward, we have no interest in keeping anything hidden. It's a decision that a very, very broad circle in the Folketing has taken, namely that we're gonna have these planes. And yes, they cost some money and they have to be financed, and we know how many candidates there are. So there's a process going on. Depending on the process, it will be possible to obtain information about it. But first of all, it is clear that we have a process that belongs in the conciliation circle until we have the choice of type. And then there will be a number of decisions that I have mentioned. So in this case, as in so many other cases, we want as much openness as it is possible to have, but of course there are a number of things that make it impossible to have complete transparency about this, and we in the Social Democrats respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164852	Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164854	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur when he thinks this basis of decision should be presented to the public. Now I was a little slow on the button before, so I didn't have time to ask the Secretary of Defense about it. When should it be presented to the public? I think it is very important that this should be made known, but also that there is plenty of time for a public debate. Therefore, I would also like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will not support the Enhedslisten's proposals, so that we give the people a common promise that there will be proper openness in good time on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110164937	No, I cannot support Enhedslisten's proposals in this regard. But we have no problem with the view of as much openness as possible. But you cannot set a date and a time when you have to publish certain information. As the questioner knows, we are engaged in a process and it is a long process that we have had here, where we have had a split race and are left with three candidates. There are some very special rules of the game for that. The conciliation circle has not yet made the choice of the type. It will not be until later, and so I cannot go on to say when it will be possible to make things public. It must come at the rate agreed by the conciliation circle in relation to the choices to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165022	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165024	I think it is very, very relevant to the promise of openness whether this basis of decision is presented before or after conciliation has taken a decision. Would the rapporteur like to make a statement as to what the rapporteur thinks is reasonable? I mean, would 14 days in advance be fair? Or is it enough that it is an hour before the conciliation circle announces which plane is intended?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165054	I can quite understand the question, I think it just turns out differently. In other words, we have to decide which type to choose, and there is concern for the other producers. We should not put ourselves in a situation where they will have the opportunity to complain that we have published some things that could be the price. This is also quite commercial, which is why there are a number of restrictions, so that we cannot tell about it until we have taken the decisions in the order in which, among other things, we take them. The line of defense has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165128	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165138	Thank you. The Danish People's Party cannot support motion for a resolution No. B 11, as we cannot agree to publicising things that are militarily or commercially confidential. But, of course, we also want maximum transparency on the purchase of fighter aircraft, and that is why we think that the Secretary of Defense's proposal to publish the decision-making basis. But excluding the military and commercially confidential parts is a good idea, which we would like to support, but we cannot support B 11.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165211	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165213	I would just like to ask the rapporteur: why not? In fact, it is exactly the same thing that lies in the Enhedslisten's proposal, namely that the decision-making basis for the purchase of fighter aircraft should be presented in good time. But otherwise we are very open to looking at what the precise form should be and that there may be some information that cannot be provided. We can discuss this further in the process if the Danish People's Party or others have specific objections to it. So I do not really see what prevents the rapporteur from actually supporting our proposal as it stands here. It says that we want openness, so what is preventing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165249	If B 11 is to support the proposal made by the Minister for Defence, namely that the military and commercial confidentiality should be taken in advance, then they are identical, but I have not understood that B 11 does, that is to say, that it is intended to be removed in advance. It is clear that we cannot publish military and commercially confidential things in connection with the purchase of fighter aircraft, because then we can, for example. do not negotiate a real price forward, and we are going to tell too much about how our defenses are arranged. So if you take it out in advance and that is part of B 11, we can support B 11, but it has not been my opinion that that was the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165323	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165324	We are certainly very open to discussing what needs to be done so that the other parties can support this. I fully agree that there may be things that need to be taken out. What matters to us is that we put forward this basis of decision so that the people can discuss this purchase of billions, and if the Danish People's Party could be interested in supporting it, I look forward very much to the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165352	Then I think that Enhedslisten should support the proposal made by the Secretary of Defense. That is what we support, and we think that is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165402	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Peter Juel Jensen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165408	Thank you, President. Enhedslisten invites the government to present the decision-making basis for the forthcoming election of new fighter aircraft. We cannot disagree with that, as the Minister has already resigned. And I would like to read from the press release: Before the negotiations with the Defence Committee Peter Christensen will publish the decision-making basis and the government's position on the choice of which fighter aircraft to replace the Danish F.seg16 fighter planes. That is why I will publish the decision-making basis when the government has decided in the coming months on which aircraft the government will propose to the defence committee to replace the current F16 combat aircraft," says Secretary of Defense Peter Christensen. The motion for a resolution consists, inter alia, of: of a collection of evaluation results for combat aircraft candidates as well as the government's position on the choice of new fighter aircraft and will subsequently be discussed with the conciliation circle. This also means that the information which cannot be published due to. military or commercial confidentiality, of course will be available to both the Defence Committee and the Danish Parliament," concludes Secretary of Defense Peter Christensen. If it is left, the decision-making basis will not be published in its entirety, as the material will also contain something that is either classified militarily or will be commercially confidential. And the Left will not be involved in publishing material that could endanger the lives of Danish or Allied pilots. Then, of course, there are also considerations of public finances. There is no need to publish expected prices for both aircraft and maintenance, as this will, of course, be the subject of a negotiation before a contract is concluded. But when it comes to openness, except for the three things here, Enhedslisten kicks in an open door and the Left cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165616	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165619	Thank you. I'm actually just thinking that this is a great opportunity for the government and the conciliation circle to create this openness that we are talking about. I think that Enhedslisten is almost extremely open to bending this idea and making it edible to all parties. I don't think there's anyone at Enhedslisten who's going to provide confidential information. It is more a question of having the opportunity to debate widely what is actually decided, and I guess it is also in order to create an understanding among the people that it is right to spend so many billions on the purchase of fighter aircraft. Why is it that it is not now that you have to make a best practice on what it is like that the government will be open? I simply do not understand that. It seems a little like you insist that when it comes from the Enhedslisten, you don't want to say yes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165711	After all, I am speaking on behalf of the Left, and in the Left we would like to have as much openness as possible about this. We have just the three reservations I just read out. However, I do think that the press release issued by the Minister for Defence provides for all possible openness, but there is just what is confidential in military terms and what is commercially confidential. There is consideration for the Danish pilots, and there is of course also the consideration for the estimates that have been made by the Danish side when it comes to the price and price of maintenance, which of course you cannot report out. It is also clear from the press release that this will be announced before the Minister has a discussion with the defence committee. So I actually think that there is every possible openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165753	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165757	I am very much in favour of the business community and also our suppliers being given good opportunities to make a good deal with us. But I am extremely incomprehensible about what I referred to earlier today, also in relation to the speed of the decisions we are taking in here, namely that once again there will be no guarantee that there will actually be room and time for this to be properly discussed. I hope that what is coming will come in good time, and if it is published in the morning of the day, then I simply think it is a pity. I do not understand that this is a symptom of the openness that the Left wants to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165838	I refer to the process initiated by the Minister for Defence, and there I think the Minister for Defence has actually put forward a process that has been agreed in the conciliation circle since the decision to buy new fighter aircraft was taken. That process has been open, but of course there are some things here where you are forced to go quietly with the doors. I don't think the alternative should be so worried. We have the Minister's word in the press release that this is going to be open, but there are just a few things that cannot be discussed, partly because it could put Danish pilots or allied pilots at risk, but also because it may mean that we are going to pay a significantly higher price for the new fighter planes and for the maintenance of these fighter planes than well is, and it may not be in the interests of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165926	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110165929	Now the rapporteur of the Left points out that Enhedslisten is kicking open doors, and it is nice to hear that it is rare that we are so close to agreeing on such a proposal. But if it is really about kicking open doors, I find it hard to understand why the Left will not support the Enhedslisten's proposal. That's all we're dealing with in the Folketing. And why not support this proposal to back the promises that have also been made by the Secretary of Defense from the Left to show openness? What's to stop it? We are very open to it if there is some detail in the proposal that needs to be adjusted and then we can do it during the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170010	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170012	Thank you. Well, Enhedslisten is overtaken inside. After all, the Minister has put forward what has been agreed in the conciliation circle about how this process is going to run. I mean, there's basically no need for us to stand here. It's an open door, Enhedslisten kicks in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170029	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170032	I am very pleased with the assurances on openness, but I have to say that I do not think it is a question of kicking in an open door until we have a clear assurance as to when this basis of decision will be put forward. It is quite crucial that there is proper time for a debate. That is why I would very much like a clear statement to be made: is it at the moment when the Minister sends the basis for the decision to the Conciliation Committee? Will it also be presented to the public there? Or is it something that can actually only happen after? Or can it happen one day before the decision in the conciliation circle is taken? When is it being put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170105	Oh, my God, I tried so hard to read! I try again and this is a quote from the minister's press release: the government wants a process with maximum transparency. That's why I'm going to and I'm in this case the Secretary of Defense... to publish the decision-making basis once the government has made a decision in the coming months on which plane the government will propose to the conciliation circle. In other words, the Minister for Defence will publish the decision-making basis before a decision has been taken in the conciliation circle. And then it's open to the public, and then the debate goes there. But it must also be the case that if an agreement has been reached with a conciliation group, that conciliation group will also have an opportunity to look at the basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170157	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we turn to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170218	Thank you. This motion for a resolution comes at an interesting time, because, as most people have probably noticed, there are also people other than Enhedslisten who think that this is such a shady thing going on behind closed doors. A television broadcast has been announced tomorrow, I think it is scheduled for tomorrow, where, no matter what the Secretary of Defense says here, and whatever the rapporteur says today, it will almost appear as if it is shady and as if it is behind closed doors, no matter what. And that is really a pity, but it is not always that reality affects, nor does the news stream and television. The Minister for Defence has replied very precisely today that the basis for the decision will be presented when it is available. Then it will be submitted to the decision-makers and the Folketing. That cannot be said more clearly, and that is why there is really not so much more to say than that this process will run as openly as possible in relation to the fact that there are some tenderers, if any confidentiality is of course to be respected, so that no more is to be published for a wider audience than is appropriate, given that there are competitors who are also bidding. It has been tried by many stakeholders; I think there has been quite a lot of lobbying in this matter by a number of stakeholders, so we have heard about it for a long time. I do not agree that this resolution from the Enhedslisten is so similar to what the Minister says. No, the comments on the proposal state that it has not been in force until now that there has been openness. I disagree with that. There has been all the openness that has been able to exist so far, because the basis for the decision is not clear. That is why, of course, it is not possible to present it. That is why the good answer that is being given today, and I have a quiet hope that it will also affect the public and perhaps even television, so that in future we will be free from being portrayed as shady elements working behind closed doors. So the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170436	Thank you. One more brief comment came at the last minute, and that is Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170443	But does the Liberal Alliance believe that there has been sufficient and full transparency in the purchase of the fighter aircraft here so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170455	There have been thorough briefings from the responsible politicians to ensure that the process leads to a proper basis for decision-making. There has been good orientation from those who have worked with it, but that is to say, you cannot drive it is naive to believe it is such a process in public and openness, as long as there are tenderers and before you have identified who actually makes offers in the end. What the Minister is saying is that when the basis for the decision is there it will be put forward. That is why I believe that the open process has been carried out, it is even possible to run, if we also have to respect tenderers and give them the opportunity to put everything forward so that it is not the case that tenderers should try to keep things hidden, because the public should not have insight and neither should competitors. So I think there has actually been the openness that has been able to exist so far. Now we have been told that it will be really open when possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170549	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170551	How long does the Minister think it appropriate that from the point of view of decision to conciliation, the final decision should be taken? How long does the rapporteur think a reasonable period is to ensure that there is a public debate so that something can also be put in the press and so that relevant organisations can contribute and have a discussion about it here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170614	It is the rapporteur, and not the Minister, who is in the chair, so the rapporteur is the one who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170622	That is quite correct. And that is not an answer that can be given here today. Hopefully, that process will be organised as appropriately as possible in relation to decision-makers, so that there is the necessary time. But what is the signal today is that, as soon as the basis for the decision is clear, it will be presented, and then the decision makers will have to plan the time needed to make the decision. It would be strange, however, to stand here and say today that it must take so long and so long at all costs, or that it must go so quickly at all costs. I won't offer that here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170700	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170709	In the alternative, and not least in this case, we believe that experience and knowledge overcome skepticism, and that is why I will also be very, very listening to the good arguments that are coming and there is much of this knowledge that I do not have for good reasons, because we are not in the conciliation circle. I'm just constantly wondering, and it may then again be that it's a lack of knowledge that this analysis that you're doing, as I've understood, where you evaluate the individual aircraft to find out what the individual aircraft can do, can be so terribly secret. I have been in a lot of negotiations in the past, not about fighter planes, I must confess, but how much of the information available can be disclosed without the risk of higher prices, and perhaps just as part of a normal negotiating dialogue you pass them on, and then you might get pressure on the provider or whatever it may be. So what I really ask is: can it really be true that this process, where you find out what the individual aircraft can do, i.e. where you almost folder them or map out the skills that the aircraft have, if an aircraft can have skills, so that they can see if they can do what we need them for, can be so secret? I just don't understand. I understand that there can be a process that cannot be allowed to begin with when we need to find out what Denmark's contribution on the defence side and foreign policy should be in general, and that may be what ends up in deciding which aircraft we should have. I would hope that this is what will determine it, that is to say that we have a vision of what we are going to do with the Danish defence, what we are going to do in the world. If you're going to use fighter planes for that, we don't immediately back up the alternative, but in any case I think this is such a funny version of the hen and the egg, that is, that the study we're having now, which maps the ability of the planes, and what they can, should be kept so secret. It has nothing to do with what Denmark needs them for. That is my view, and I must then be corrected, that is what we are about to find out only after the analysis has been received in the conciliation circle, that is, what Denmark's contribution is to be, what we are going to use them for. Right now we're just getting facts and basic data on the planes. But maybe I'm wrong. So we are so supportive of Enhedslisten's proposal. In fact, I think it is a very mild proposal, an outstretched hand, in which we want to create this openness in every way, and it is very difficult for me to see a conflict as well. I note that the Liberal Alliance may have a point in that it is mentioned that there is something that needs to be and that was not before, that is to say a little hint in a remark, but I think it is an outstretched hand in allowing openness to be shown, so that we support the proposals of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170952	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110170953	That is because I would like to ask the rapporteur something. For the rapporteur says that what the aircraft can do cannot be secret. I should be very surprised if the rapporteur's attention has passed, that if there is something that the three who are now left have tried to do to everyone, then it is to tell us about what these planes can do. This has really been known everywhere. You've been invited to meetings and air shows, and what do I know where you've been told about what these planes can do, and that one is better than the other. So if Enhedslisten is missing something there, it's just to mention it. Then I'm sure all three of them would stand here in a row telling me everything the plane can do. So it can't be a deficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171031	Well, that's exactly why I'm wondering about this analysis. I may need to be corrected, because I do not know what those who are doing this quite large feasibility study have been asked for. But I think they are just sitting here and finding out what these planes can do. Can these planes fly what they must now be able to, based on what has been proposed in the procurement plan that is? But I do not see that it fits in with how Denmark should use the planes. That is my view, and I have at least been told by several experts, that this is not what is being examined right now. Right now, you find out what the planes really can do. And when you get the answer to it, you have to find out what it is for one of the people we choose. The process, from what the planes actually can, and to what it is then chosen, is interesting, and it is okay that it lies in the conciliation circle. But I simply cannot understand that the rest of us must not be told what you, as a conciliation circle, have been told and what has been said there, just as they themselves go out and tell. You can tell that. There may be some business secrets and some things that make there are some elements that you do not want to disclose. I think you can take them out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171135	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171136	This is an interesting discussion. Because it is true that one thing is what the producers think they can do. We've got our ears full of that. And what do we need the planes for? Therefore, it is quite foolish to stand here today and have to answer Enhedslisten's questions about how long to go and how quickly to decide it. We get what these planes can do, and they can do something different in different contexts... is it a task in the Arctic, or where is it? It's the process. That's where it is. And it would be foolish to short-circuit it out of the wish that we should answer here today on scout's honour how quickly it should go. I do not think this should be done very quickly, to put it plainly. It has to be thorough.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171217	After all, we are all subject to something similar to scout's honor, so I'm not thinking that's what's going to disturb anything. But the other way around, I guess that's not what Enhedslisten is asking. I guess that's an interval. I mean, you get a message, and within a given period you have a number of days or weeks to figure out what's up and down in this, so there can be a proper debate. I do not think that this is an exact date to be sought, because it may be a little difficult to find, but a guarantee that the range will be given to have a proper debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171246	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171259	On the radical side, we fully agree that it is essential to have as much openness and as wide a discussion on the procurement of these aircraft as possible, both because it is as much an investment as several rapporteurs have mentioned, but also, as the rapporteur of the alternative has just pointed out, because it has quite a lot of implications for what we are getting and what tasks we can perform. We have many views on this in the Radical Left, and we look forward to discussing them when it comes to it. However, having a proper basis to discuss, including for those parties that are not involved in the defence settlement, is quite fair and right, and so I am also extremely pleased that the Minister for Defence has said so clearly that the basis for decision we have as defence mediators will be laid before the Folketing and the public at the same time • if I understand the Minister for Defence right as we get it in the conciliation circle, so that there is an opportunity for everyone to take part in the debate and ask questions. It is quite obvious that there will be some technical details not only to show, but the more fundamental things which are also of interest, as I hear from both Enhedslisten and the Alternative, one can of course put forward and discuss, and we will look forward to discussing them with all the parties of the Folketing and with the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171411	Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171413	Thank you so much. I'm glad we understand that we want this openness. I would also like to ask the rapporteur how long it takes the rapporteur to ensure a proper debate. It does not need to be precise on the number of days, but is it days, weeks or months that are necessary to ensure that the people can have a proper debate on this combat aircraft purchase from the point of view of the decision-making process? What do Radicals think would be appropriate? I hope then that radicals will also be included in the discussion which I would very much like to have of this proposal in the Committee on Defence and Defence Policy in further consideration. Then it may be that we can meet, so that the other parties can also vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171500	It is difficult to say that when you do not know the basis for the decision, and I do not know what it will look like and how clear the position will be. But I would like to say that I am not in a hurry, that the Radical Left is not in a hurry. We will be absolutely sure that the basis for the decision is right and that there has been an opportunity to discuss it here in public and with all the parties who want to take part in the discussion, so I do not really dare to guess. But at least a few weeks, let me put it that way. That's all I have the imagination to imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171528	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm? No. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There is no rapporteur for the SF present, and that means that we move on to Mr Conservative People's Party. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171555	Thank you. I agree with the other rapporteurs who have rejected the motion for a resolution. I also think you kick in an open door. One might say that this could be voted in favour, but I nevertheless think it is wrong to go in and table motions for resolutions which are unnecessary and have faith in the Minister for Defence to ensure that there is the openness that there should be, of course, about the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171623	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is first the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110171645	Thank you very much. I have been looking forward very much to this debate today, because I think it is extremely timely to discuss the openness of the biggest public procurement in the century, and we are currently faced with the fact that the parties in the conciliation circle are very, very close to choosing which fighter aircraft should be invested in 30 billion tax dollars. So I think that is a very, very exciting discussion. I would like to say that I think it is very positive that yesterday the Minister for Defence has been out to state that the basis for decision will actually be laid forward, including to the public. This is something that we in the Enhedslist have been asking for for a very long time, and I am glad that it has been announced in advance of the debate here. I just have to say that I think it is very important to have a clear statement of how long there will be between this decision-making base being put forward and the conciliation circle taking the final decision. Because I think it is absolutely crucial that the people have a proper opportunity to discuss this combat aircraft purchase, and I think there has been too little openness in the process so far. In particular, when it comes to something as important as our foreign policy and about 30 billion tax dollars, I really think that we should all take responsibility for giving people the opportunity to discuss it. So if there are details of this resolution that various parties in the Folketing do not feel quite comfortable with, then I am very, very open to adjusting it in the next reading. But I would like to say that, after the many reports that Enhedslisten is kicking open doors in since yesterday, I would like to stress this proposal for openness on the purchase of fighter aircraft, then I hope that this is something that the parties can broadly support. I have also heard that the Minister for Defence has just promised to come to the platform and say a little more about the time perspective in this. That is precisely what is incredibly important to us. Finally, I would just like to say that I also believe that decisions will be better if they are taken after a thorough discussion, not only in a small, closed conciliation circle, but also with other actors in society. We know, for example, that one of the aircraft that is on the field, Joint Strike Fighter, has there been extremely serious problems with the engine setting out, the software strikes and other similar things. This is one of the reasons why I can be concerned that Denmark is running into the next IC4 scandal here. I think it is important that, for example, there should be a ban on the use of hormones. is a proper discussion of whether that is what you have to invest so many tax dollars in, and not least also of what factors are being weighted, what foreign policy you want to conduct, and what importance it has, what type of aircraft you then choose. Well, one of the arguments in connection with Joint Strike Fighter is that that plane has many other NATO countries too, and then we can go to war with them. Is it one of the most important things, or is it the patrolling of its own airspace that is? What are some of the factors to be emphasized? It is, of course, a discussion which I hope will come, which is why I very much hope that in here we can agree that there should be openness on the purchase of the fighter aircraft. I am glad to have heard from the Minister that there should be a meeting, but also another element that lies in the Enhedslisten's proposal, namely that there should be a reasonable time, from the foundation, until the conciliation circle takes the final decision. I am, in fact, very open to discussing how long it should be. I just think it would be quite obvious to give people an assurance that they are also willing to put action behind the words of openness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172043	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen, the Social Democrats, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172052	You must not run out of the square, and there must also be room for a statement. I would like to say that I fully agree with Mrs Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten that there has been no lack of transparency in this matter. But fair enough that Enhedslisten wants more openness. I still think it's a little weird that it's just this area. We have bought a lot of equipment in recent years, we have bought helicopters, we are buying armored crew cars, but I have not seen the same debate there. It is precisely about the fighter planes that we want a special form of debate. However, the decision to have them has been taken and the question is how and there are some restrictions on openness. What's in this thing that's different from the other stuff?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172143	First of all, I would like to stress that I think it is important to have openness on all these purchases. I also know that with e.g. The helicopters were actually presented with the basis for the decision, but that was after the decision had been taken. And we want to avoid it being in this order of things, so that the basis for the decision is presented before. When I think it's so important to discuss the fighter planes, it's also because this is a huge investment. This is actually the biggest public procurement in Danish history. We do not know exactly how much yet, but we are looking at an amount of some 30 billion. kr., at a time when we are constantly being told that money is missing to lift e.g. welfare around the country's municipalities, yet all parties from the Social Democratic Party to the SF and the Danish People's Party and the Left, etc. So we agree that 30 billion can be found here. kr. I think that is also interesting to discuss, i.e. whether it is the right priority for 30 billion. kr. At the moment. I'll tell you what. So it has something to do with size, and then it has something to do with which foreign policy we are committed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172248	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172250	The only new thing that has happened in this way since the Folketing last dealt with it is that we have a new government. Does it justify having a debate in the Parliamentary Chamber? Perhaps this could be done to ask the new government whether it has the same view on the issue of openness as the previous government did. But since the majority of the parties are members of the same conciliation circle, that is something everyone wants to see openness about. Therefore, if this is another discussion about whether or not we should have fighter planes, then it is not this resolution that we are going to discuss, then it is a completely different kind of discussion that we should have. That's why some of us may think it's a rather strange kind of discussion when it comes in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172330	I would say in relation to the specific proposal here on transparency: it did not come to a conclusion because of the elections in the spring, so once we have retabled it, it is of course in order to have it dealt with in a very sincere hope that the declarations of openness that have been made can also be translated into a joint political decision here in the Folketing that this is something that is really wanted in this process. So that is very real, and I hope that we can have a discussion on that in the discussion of this proposal, regardless of what you think about the purchase of fighter aircraft, and that is why I am also pleased with the assurances on transparency. But I would say that yes... well, I will say no more.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172410	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of Defense for round two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172422	Thank you. Everyone's for openness. All parties have agreed positively that it would be desirable for the decision-making basis for the choice of new fighter aircraft to be published. Everyone wants a good debate on that basis of decision-making, and that is why it is a little difficult for me gradually to hear what the disagreement is really about. And whether the Enhedslisten will adjust the motion for a resolution so that it fits exactly with the great openness of the government, I am not supposed to interfere, but what must at least reassure the Enhedslisten is that when you are against fighter aircraft as a party and say to the government that you want time to be against fighter aircraft, you are told that there will be time in the decision-making process to be against fighter aircraft. It should actually bring some kind of joy. At the same time, all those parties who want to buy new fighters who want to have a good time to discuss which fighters to choose can also be happy because there will be plenty of time to have that debate, but we can feel a debate on an enlightened basis, because then we know the evaluation of the various candidates. I understood from the author that there was a fear that it would be presented in the morning and then the decision had been taken in the afternoon. I can guarantee that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172618	Then there are two too brief remarks, and the first is Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172622	But I am actually extremely glad that the Minister has been so clear about the fact that this decision-making basis will be put forward. I think that is absolutely crucial. I am also glad that it is aired that it is stretched over more than one day. But I would still like to have a slightly clearer assurance of what the timing is in this. Are you willing to guarantee the press and the people that there will be at least one such thing? 14 days, 3 weeks, 1 month to have the opportunity to discuss this very, very important decision after the foundation is laid out?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172711	Well, it's basically up to Parliament's parties how long you want to negotiate this issue. It is clear that it will be those parties who want to have fighter planes that will influence when the decision is taken, because it is they who make the decision or say otherwise: it will not be the Enhedslisten that will decide how long other parties will have to make a decision. But it is my impression that what was said by the Radical Left was that it was imagined that at least weeks would pass before the Radical Left was ready to take a decision. And that would also be my answer to the Enhedslisten. The parties that have to make this decision must have exactly as much time as it takes to ensure that they are confident that they are making the right decision and that they can feel confident that they have the level of knowledge needed to make that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172810	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172811	I would also like to thank the Minister for coming a little closer there. It is absolutely crucial to me, whether you are in favour of or against buying new fighter planes, that there is agreement that there must be the necessary openness in the process here. And I hope that we can make a report in the Defence Committee in which the parties can agree on what is a proper way of ensuring that here too we have given the people a hand in ensuring that there is that openness and that it does not just depend on what the parties in the conciliation circle think is a reasonable timeframe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172852	What the various parties might want to adopt through motions for resolutions, I do not really want to interfere as a minister. I can say that the discussion there seems to me to be somewhat superfluous, because if the Enhedslisten wishes to put out all that one can, with respect for the fact that something is commercially confidential and something else is militaryly confidential, but that, as a starting point, a visible basis of decision is being put forward, which also makes sense to those who read it, namely the members of the Folketing, then I find it difficult to see what it really is that we are having a discussion about right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172936	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110172939	Now it should not be the fault of the current government or the Minister for Defence that there are probably large parts of the Danish population and also individual parties here in the Danish Parliament who think that for a period of more than 10 years there has been a certain secrecy in the defence and also in the official work. That is why it is, in fact, a little too bad, I think, that it is being laid out as if it were decided. It is possible that Enhedslisten has decided not to buy fighter planes, but in the alternative we do not know yet, because we are just awaiting to become wiser. The fact that we then have no mandate and no decision-making powers in this process is then our own fault, you might say, or at least in the future, if we are not in the conciliation. I'd like to ask you something. Now that people and defence areas are questioning whether it is really the right thing to spend so many billions buying fighter planes, when our budgets mean that there is a lack of resources elsewhere, could we not put out the pre-analysis that is being made right now? Then it could work to decide what it's like for Denmark to use this analysis, in conciliation. But what prevents the analysis from being started immediately with individual gaps?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173051	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173052	The reality is that when we adopt this defence settlement, we have decided that we want to have the capacity that means that we have fighter planes, because we say from some defence policy analyses that this is an important part of Danish defence. And then we have said that we want to have a good basis for decision-making so as to be able to choose which aircraft it should then be, and when that basis of decision is clear, I say that the government will then lay it before the public, for all parties, of course, and then there will be a political debate about which candidate you then choose. And at the same time the government will also put forward what we think it takes to be able to have the necessary capacity, and probably as important how to see it just funded. Then there will probably be a political debate on the basis of that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173159	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173202	I don't have much more. I would just like to say that I still see nothing to prevent that pre-analysis from being carried out, so that those who cannot understand why it should all be so closed with these decisions could have a look at the matter and start thinking for themselves some independent thoughts, just as journalists and others here in the Folketing could sit and work on what is really up and down in this. We also see this in other policy areas. In the European Union, they are also trying to expose all the different nuances and clues that exist, and then you can make your own decisions and shape your ideas and opinions on that basis. Then it is up to the government to decide what is going to happen, but it could be healthy to have the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173239	I don't really know what we're discussing right now. In other words, a large number of parliamentary parties want to continue to have fighter planes. It's been discussed a lot of times. I am sure there will be even more opportunities in the future to discuss it. And if you agree that we should have that capacity, then there must be a process so that it is possible to make a sensible choice as to what the replacement for F-16 should be. In this context, I can add, as a Liberal, that the alternative's wish that there should be good considerations behind those priorities is therefore not patented as a new member of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173325	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173328	Thank you. Well, it's nothing new that there's a majority in the Folketing who want fighter planes. For many, many years, there has been a majority in favour of new fighter planes. It has then been postponed and postponed. During that period, there has been an enormous amount of information. I assume that is the case in the defence committee that has been sitting and discussing it. I do not know, because I am not sitting in it, just as the rest of Denmark does not know what information has been transferred to the defence committee. After all, the democratic problem is that there is no possibility of having an informed democratic debate, and that is what Enhedslisten is trying to achieve with the resolution we have tabled here. I just have to say that I think it is a pity that the Minister for Defence does not seem to have as much interest in the people having an enlightened and democratic debate for which he has a passion and support that the conciliation circle should be able to have an enlightened debate. I fully understand that there is something that needs to be kept confidential, but why can we not have the debate out in the open democratically so that all Danes can participate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173432	I have the impression that there has been a public debate over all these years about whether to say that when the F-16s can no longer, because they have served their military service, if I may use that expression, you want there to be a replacement for them. It has been discussed for many years. I guess we're actually getting closer to the truth about what it's all about for the Enhedslisten, namely that you're against there being a replacement for F-16. That is a legitimate political point of view, but I think that accusing the government and the conciliation parties of being opposed to a democratic and open debate is wrong. In other words, it has been discussed for years whether there should be a replacement, and now we have entered a process where we need to translate the political desire, namely to find a replacement for the F-16, in a proper process, from which we also have a proper basis for decision-making. And when that basis of decision is there, it will be laid before all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173544	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173547	The problem is, of course, that the Minister for Defence has yet to explain to me and, I think, the rest of Denmark why it is that the whole population should not have the opportunity to hold a debate on an enlightened basis, so why the stated basis should only lie within a closed conciliation circle and not be openly promoted. You can have all sorts of attitudes about what Denmark should have of fighter planes or not to have of fighter planes, but our idea with this proposal is that everyone should be able to take that debate, of course, with due regard for confidentiality. So why is it that it should not come out if it is not because one is afraid to get the debate on an enlightened basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173627	It is simply a false disagreement that one is trying to build up. Well, now we have made it clear by the government that everyone has to have access to this information, and I almost get the impression that it annoys Enhedslisten that the government is the guarantor of openness. Because what might this be about? Exactly that Enhedslisten is against buying new fighter planes. So say it honestly instead of accusing the government of secrecy, when the clear message from Parliament's platform is that we will lay out the basis for the decision, so that all Danes who wish to spend their free time learning all the details about the abilities and opportunities of all three candidates can do so. I will not be surprised if there are Danes who say that this is probably a little complicated, but it has to be their choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173728	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee and, if no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151110173743	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 11 November 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
