ParlaMint-DK_20150327100002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr (EL) and others.: Bill No. L 182 (Proposal for a law amending the law on compensation and compensation for former soldiers and other State employees with lately diagnosed post-traumatic stress reaction (Enlargement of the secured passenger circle). Stine Brix (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 113 (Proposal for a resolution on accompanying measures for the handicapped) and motion for a resolution No. B 115 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on improved accompanying arrangements for children and adults with disabilities). Rosa Lund (EL) and Henning Hyllested (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on higher support for continuing vocational training). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 117 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a whistleblower scheme for defence and police intelligence staff), motion for a resolution No. B 132 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a better and more effective response to stalking victims) and motion for a resolution No. B 138 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prevention of forced entry). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 118 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the use of an economic model to prevent social marginalization) and motion for a resolution No. B 147 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on clear rules for the definition of single parents and single pensioners). Frank Aaen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 119 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution allowing low-income citizens to freeze the ground debt). Pernille Vigsø Bagge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 120 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of shared municipal tax) and motion for a resolution No. B 122 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a Public Sector Simplification Forum). Esben Lunde Larsen (V) and Per Stig Møller (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 121 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to ensure that Danish universities can offer education in Danish at the universities of neighbouring countries located in the border area to Denmark). Liselott Blix (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution No. B 123 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on strengthening efforts in the field of sclerosis). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V) and Lars Barfoed (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 124 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the continued use of the Crown by royal privileged inns). Rosa Lund (EL) and Christian Juhl (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 125 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection of internships). Jan E. Jørgensen (V) and Preben Bang Henriksen (V): Motion for a resolution No. B 126 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stepping up action against media which improperly violates privacy or brings false stories). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 128 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on compulsory information on social proceedings on the local authorities' websites). Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 129 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the relocation of state jobs). Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Kim Christiansen (DF), Villum Christensen (LA) and Mike Legarth (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 131 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the modification of speed limits and the use of automatic speed control at dangerous points in traffic). Rosa Lund (EL) and Nikolaj Villumsen (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 133 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on voting on school closures). Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 134 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the holiday allowance system). Peter Skaarup (DF) and Mai Mercado (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 135 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the provisions of the Penal Code on title). Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 137 (Proposal for a Parliament decision requiring foreign nationals to pay the full amount of the residual penalty in the event of an entry ban). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 139 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the publication of the decision-making basis for the election of new fighter aircraft). Eigil Andersen (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 140 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on 75%) by an aircraft crew shall be directly employed by the air carrier). Kim Christiansen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 141 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on raising the speed limit to 90 km/h. On the road). Henning Hyllested (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 142 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the law on the carriage of goods by road so that all trains can be detained). Henrik Høegh (V), Pia Adelsteen (DF), Villum Christensen (LA) and Daniel Rugholm (K) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 144 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cessation of biodiversity reductions in the form of State forests). Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Pia Adelsteen (DF), Villum Christensen (LA) and Daniel Rugholm (K) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 145 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on improving river maintenance opportunities). Trine Pertou Mach (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 146 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on initiatives to provide children with day-to-day services with a developing, safe and healthy children's environment and a health and safety law for children). Peter Skaarup (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 148 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increased penalties for making bomb threats affecting public transport, etc.). Lars Barfoed (KF), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF) and Mette Bock (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 149 (Proposal for a decision of Parliament to ensure confidentiality between the patient and the physician). Stine Brix (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 114 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the simplification of assistance for children with disabilities). Özlem Sara Cekic (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution B 127 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on unpaid treatment, transport and transport allowances in accordance with the rules on hospital transport for all patients referred to the Øfeldt Centrene, which at the moment. are provided for in Sections 71 to 72 of the Health Act. Stine Brix (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution B 130 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the extension of the target group for the Foreign Service Act). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution B 143 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the admissibility of the infringement of the Treaty on the sale of snuff). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 114 and B 130 are referred directly to the Social Affairs Committee and that motion for a resolution No. B 127 and B 143 are referred directly to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327100620	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327100640	The debate is open. Sir. Henrik Høegh as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327100700	Thank you for the floor. According to the Landsforening and the government, housing for approx. Twelve thousand refugees, of course. is due to the current situation in Syria. After all, the Integration Act lays down the municipalities' obligation to find permanent accommodation and until such time as it exists, the municipalities are obliged to assign temporary residences to newly arrived refugees. It is a huge challenge for the municipalities to provide these housing, and I therefore note with satisfaction that this bill sets out to launch concrete initiatives to meet the challenges of the municipalities, in particular to find or establish housing for the many refugees. After all, the draft law provides that municipalities can override, bypass or decide for themselves in relation to the planning law how they will provide these housing opportunities. That's really, really good speech. For long periods of time, we have fought to soften up a very rigid schedule law, and we have plenty of examples where the law of plans prevents sensible development for smaller industries, for a store that might set up a coffee machine and two chairs, it is suddenly a restaurant, and then you are asked to shut down. So we look forward to this legislative work. I think I can say that we will explore the possibilities of finding other openings in the planning act during the committee work so that we can avoid some of the things that put an end to local growth initiatives. We are not so afraid of giving local authorities more autonomy and a little more room for manoeuvre in this area, so thank you for the opportunity to get into dialogue on this. We shall look forward to this during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327100906	Looks like sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has asked for a brief comment. That can't be right. He's not here. Laughter was it, sir. Christian Langballe? Yeah, well, here you go!
ParlaMint-DK_20150327100920	Excuse me, Chairman. This is, of course, an exception to the law on plans, which has been introduced solely to provide these homes for refugees. I would like to ask the Left about the refugee policy that the government is now pursuing and about the reasonableness of simply introducing an exception when it comes to refugees. We would have preferred the Danish People's Party to place these refugees in the asylum centres and to bring these people back home, as they should have been meant to come, and not to integrate them into Danish society, not to come out and get a job, because that is not the point of being a refugee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101022	A debate on refugee policy in this area does not belong under this bill. There are other rapporteurs who have to deal with that debate, so I will not go into it right now. I shall confine myself here to saying that this is an exception to the law on plans. We are very, very pleased about this and we will of course try to expand it during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101044	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101046	Now, listen to me: this is a piece of legislation which is entirely in line with the general policy on refugees. I hope the rapporteur will agree to that. That is why I am simply asking in general about the fairness of this proposal. It must, of course, be put into the wider context, otherwise it does not make sense for us to debate it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101112	I will go as far as to say that we are in favour of the people we receive, we must find out what we can offer in the period they are here and that all those we can integrate at all we can easily need in our society. But otherwise I will not go further into a political refugee debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101133	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101141	Thank you very much. After all, this bill is about a change in the law of plans. It is a question of providing temporary accommodation for refugees, and the proposal actually comes against a sad background: the situation in Syria, and we have rarely seen as many refugees come to Denmark as we see at the moment. We have to accept them. We'll take care of them. This bill is by no means about how many refugees we should have in Denmark, how many we should accept. Nor is it about how we are to deal with them on the whole. However, the draft law is about the municipalities having to have the tools needed to get their job done so that they can solve it. There is a very large and urgent need, and therefore there has been a close dialogue between the government and the KL on how to resolve this. So what is it that the tool can and must be able to do when we're making this change of law? It is, of course, that municipalities should have the opportunity to use existing empty buildings for temporary housing. It is KL's assessment that they will need it. They will need to be able to use buildings which may today have a different purpose from housing. It is, without having to change the local levels. So it is a question of temporarily changing the terms of reference of the buildings. It is therefore a question of temporary housing, because it is the case that the municipalities have to provide permanent housing, but here it is precisely the case that the number of refugees makes that task impossible in certain parts of the country, and that is why the municipalities must at least have the opportunity to resort to it here. It may also be a question of new construction or conversion without the need to draw up new local plans. Like the previous speaker here on the platform, Mr. Henrik Høegh of the Left, said, it's up to 12,000. This is a large number, and even if they are distributed in 98 municipalities, the task is very large, and therefore it is now that we have to give this helping hand to the municipalities. But I have to make it clear once again that this is a temporary solution that we are talking about, and it is a question of the municipalities getting permanent housing as quickly as possible. That's how it is. Then there has also been a consultation phase on the bill here. A few important points have been corrected. On the one hand, the time limit is now set to be a five-year derogation. This is right and proper, we consider, also on the basis that it gives the municipalities plenty of time to ensure their planning. It has also been incorporated into the bill that there will be a revision after 3 years. It also makes a great deal of sense for the long-term perspective of the bill. We think this is a very good legislative proposal and we are pleased that our very good planning legislation can be taken up when there is an urgent need for it. That is why, of course, we Social Democrats support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101509	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101512	Thank you for the floor. In other words, I am glad that the Social Democrat rapporteur is of the opinion that this is part of a wider context, namely the refugee policy pursued by the government. And we all agree on that. But what I would like to ask is: is it now reasonable to make such derogations because they are refugees? In other words, we would have preferred the refugees to be placed in the asylum centres, because what lies in the concept and being a refugee is that you have to go back to your country of origin, and that is what the government's so-called austerity meant at the time. Maybe you forgot about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101600	I am very glad that the Danish People's Party is asking me this question. That gives me the opportunity to say: yes, that is the difference between the thinking of the Danish People's Party and that of the Socialists in relation to refugees. I just wanted to have the opportunity to ask the rapporteur the question: had it been Bornholmers who had been forced away from their island and had to have a good temporary stay in Denmark, would the Danish People's Party also make sure that they would stay at the asylum centres, or should they go to the right country, close to citizens, close to the Danish culture, close to the possibility of getting a good everyday life instead of being at an asylum centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101641	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101643	Now the picture is not very good, because Bornholmers are just as good Danes as you are I. Now we are talking about people who travel down from Syria, and these are even some of the very privileged people who travel down from Syria, while others remain in refugee camps. What we're just saying is that it's in being a fugitive, and that's what I heard the Prime Minister say when she talked about someone being able to return home. That's what was meant to be. So, does the rapporteur not agree with that, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101720	I fully agree with what the Prime Minister has said. However, it is fantastic that Dansk Folkeparti says that Bornholmers are as good Danes as any other Danes. What is the difference is that, as a Social Democrat, I think that those who might come as refugees from Syria are just as good people as Danes. This is obviously not what the Danish People's Party means, and this is where I think it is quite obvious to say that there is a difference. The rapporteur then laughs, but in fact I think that is the seriousness of the difference in attitude towards people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101756	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101807	Since the Danish People's Party's Environment Rapporteur cannot be present, I should like to read out her rapporteur's speech: the proposal is part of the concrete measures that the government will take to meet the municipalities' challenges of finding or establishing housing for the many refugees who come to Denmark. Therefore, the government proposes a change in the planning law so that municipalities can grant permission for construction without following the general requirement of the planning law that, for example, there should be: I'm gonna make a local plan. And then the municipalities can authorise a change in the use of existing settlements, again without complying with the planning law's requirement that local plans be drawn up or granted land zone permission etc. It is then proposed that the municipalities may establish temporary residences for the refugees, which the municipalities are obliged to designate as temporary accommodation. The derogation itself is limited to five years and it is voluntary for the municipalities to use the option. At the same time, there will be a 2-week consultation period. In the parliamentary year 2017-18, the Minister for the Environment will then make proposals for revision of the law with a view to possibly repealing it. In the Danish People's Party, we are of the opinion that many of these refugees should stay in the asylum centres, that being a refugee should be something temporary and that it should also be possible to deal with it in a way that most people can return home. Therefore, refugees should not be distributed in the municipalities, and therefore refugees should not be included in the integration programmes during that period. For the same reason, the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101941	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lone Loklinde as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327101956	We have a very special situation, since there have never been more refugees in the world since World War II than there are now. Therefore, many refugees also come to Denmark, and the municipalities have an obligation to find places of residence for them. In this context, it has proved difficult for many municipalities to find accommodation on the basis of the circumstances, which is why we have here a legislative proposal to allow municipalities to temporarily accommodate refugees in housing that has not so far been applied. The municipalities will then have the opportunity to do so without having to go through an ordinary local plan change. This means that a derogation can be granted to use other temporary dwellings with a maximum duration of five years. This also means that, in spite of everything, before doing so, you must have a two-week consultation period, so that neighbours and others in the local area will be heard. However, it is also said here that this is an initiative which it is voluntary for the municipalities to use. It is therefore local decision-making whether to take advantage of this option. We have a government that wants integration from the first day, which is why it is very important that we have the opportunity to accommodate the refugees around the country. This is a change of plan, which is why it is about the law of plans, but I can hear that there are different opinions in the Chamber. Some will turn this into an integration or refugee debate, and it is of course interesting to hear how the right-wing side does not agree on how we deal with refugees or how we deal with them. Nor is it a debate on the law of plans at all, although the Left would like to make it. There may be many reasons to talk about more temporaryity in relation to the law of plans, but this is not about the possibility from now on of being able to circumvent the provisions of the law of plans in all possible ways, because the municipalities have a large and strong tool in the precisely the law of plans, where development can be determined and planned. But here we are talking about a legislative proposal to enable the municipalities to carry out the task, which is a big and heavy task in some places, to have so many refugees who need to be accommodated in a short time. And it is much better that we can have the opportunities rather than experience, as in the 00s, that asylum seekers were in camps for years and, I would almost say, rotted. Here there is an opportunity to integrate people quickly into local communities and thus also to enable them to maintain and develop their qualifications until the day they go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327102333	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327102343	Thank you. In this case, I am here instead of Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who is the rapporteur. The SF supports the proposal. It is, after all, common sense to solve an acute problem and thus also to live up to the agreement or understanding that the government has with KL to resolve an acute problem. The acute problem is the huge influx of refugees that is coming because we have a conflict in the vicinity of Europe, which is huge and dramatic. There is a little room for this, and so it has to be said that it is small things, that we say that we can actually make, you might say, a different interpretation than the one we otherwise have in the planning law, in order to provide those people with accommodation, because we simply have to act quickly. So I guess it's just care and care that we adopt this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327102504	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327102510	It is true that the background to this bill is that there are large-scale wars and conflicts in the vicinity of Europe which have led to millions of people fleeing. It has left its mark in Europe and has also left its mark in Denmark, although one must at least be a Dane in order to perceive Denmark as particularly exposed and particularly challenged. The fact is that it is a very, very small, microscopic part of the refugees who are found as a consequence of the conflicts in the neighbourhoods of Europe that are coming to Denmark. It doesn't change anything about the fact that the challenge in some places in Denmark can be experienced as great. What we are dealing with today is how to deal with refugees who have been granted asylum. As far as the first part of the refugee's life here in Denmark is concerned, we have made sure that they are in camps. That is why we know a little bit about what happens to people when they are in refugee camps. And you can be reasonably certain that if you want to destroy people, it is an effective method. Therefore, I think we should be fully aware of what the Danish People's Party is up to, and that is that people should be able to spend year after year in refugee camps and have their lives destroyed. These are the consequences of the Danish People's Party's policy unless the Danish People's Party believes to have a knowledge of the conditions in Syria, Libya and Yemen and elsewhere that exceeds our knowledge and that within a short time there will be peace and opportunity to return. You can have a dream about it, and if that's the dream the Prime Minister has, I'll share it. However, one might also consider it a bit realistic and say that there is not much to suggest that it is going to be so fast. Now this bill is indeed about something as normal, boring and bureaucratic as the law of plans. This is just another example of the fact that the planning law is often anything but boring, at least not the consequences of it. Just as we, as a society, have an obligation to receive refugees who come here morally and humanly, but also as a result of the conventions that we have signed, we also have an obligation on the municipalities to ensure that refugees, once they have been granted asylum, have housing. And there is the starting point, of course, that what is absolutely best is if you can provide the refugees with a permanent accommodation where they can become part of the local community, the community they will also have to live in in the years to come and establish the necessary contacts. That is also what I think every municipality would like. Then many municipalities have experienced because of the general housing situation in Denmark, where in many municipalities, at least in the large cities, they have probably also closed down cheap housing, because they would rather have some housing where people can live, there are a little more wealthy places and there may be other problems in other municipalities that can not be solved immediately. We need to set up temporary housing. And then it is the case that if you have to do it with respect to the law of plans, that means it takes a little time. That is not the problem here, so it cannot be done. After all, this bill does not provide for the establishment of housing in a single place where it would not be possible to do so, but it would suggest that it could be done more quickly. And in this situation, we think that is right, really necessary and sensible and a good help to the municipalities, which have, of course, very clearly declared that they are actually fully committed to helping to solve this challenge. So we are really helping with this bill, not the refugees, but we are helping the municipalities. And then it may be that we help the refugees by giving the municipalities better opportunities to make good and sensible solutions. I have noticed that there has been sensitivity to sensible consultation responses on consultation opportunities for citizens, limiting the temporary nature of the period from 10 to 5 years, and then, and I think this is a good thing, the desire to ignore provisions preventing refugees from being placed close to airports where noise pollution means that housing cannot actually be established. We think it is very good and sensible that this has been rejected. Then I would just like to say to Mr. Henrik Høegh, that now I don't think, sir. Henrik Høegh must be overly optimistic, in view of the fact that we are changing the entire law of plans, but if that is the case, we could agree that it was Mr. Høegh. Henrik Høegh, who negotiated on behalf of the Left, and that he was given fairly free hands, and that the dedication was the wishes of the KL, I would not be very concerned that we could quickly enter into negotiations and perhaps also have some sensible solutions. But it's probably gonna be hard to get to before the election, and then Mr. Simpson... Henrik Høegh is no longer here, and I dare not even think about who is going to speak for the Left and on whom this rapporteur becomes dependent. I therefore believe that it will be very difficult to have fruitful negotiations, even though I have often had them with Mr Beazley. Henrik Høegh and also would have liked to have had it on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103013	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103021	The Liberal Alliance has nothing to object to this change of law, if necessary, if it is to be possible for the municipalities to fulfil their obligation to assign temporary residences to newly arrived refugees. With the pressure on the municipalities in this matter, it will be essential to incorporate the necessary flexibility. In this connection, we stress the fact that this is a temporary arrangement whereby exemptions and permits may be granted for no more than five years and that the scope of the provisions is linked solely to refugees. This means that the special conditions are fenced in and that, moreover, the draft law does not alter the rights of parties and other principles of administrative law in relation to decision-making, including the right to appeal. For these reasons, the Liberal Alliance can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103117	Thank you. In recent times, many municipalities have received many refugees. Finding some relevant acceptable housing has given rise to some major challenges in many places. We have seen examples of everything from hotels and cabins to completely newly built apartments. Many municipalities have ended up with expensive solutions, others have had a hard time finding opportunities. There is a great need for temporary accommodation, which is why the government and KL have had discussions on various measures. In the light of these discussions, we are now discussing this bill. With the bill, municipalities will be able to authorise construction or change the use of existing settlements without complying with the planning law's requirements for new local plans, land zone permits, etc. Of course, it is voluntary for the municipalities to take advantage of the possibilities or simply act in accordance with the general requirements and procedures of the Planning Act. It is not an open barn for the municipalities, because the changes are solely for the purpose of establishing temporary residences for refugees. Municipalities must also limit any derogations and permissions to 5 years. Finally, in the parliamentary year 2017-18, a future Minister for the Environment will present a proposal for revision of the law with a view to possible repeals, because it is a temporary solution to an acute and important problem in many of our municipalities. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103244	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103254	I would like to thank you for your broad support for this bill. I think it is a good thing that there is broad support for the fact that we are now giving the municipalities more tools to address the urgent need to find temporary housing for the many refugees who are, after all, coming in the light of the special situation that several rapporteurs have also described as the greatest flow of refugees in the world since the Second World War. It also affects Denmark, of course. That is why, of course, the government is also listening to the municipalities in terms of helping them to carry out the big task. Planning processes can be time-consuming, and the bill therefore gives the municipalities a special opportunity to derogate from the rules of the Planning Act, which sometimes make them time-consuming in order to be able to carry out this task quickly and urgently. The government agrees with KL that the Planning Act should not be an obstacle to quickly finding accommodation for the many refugees who are coming. In relation to our general willingness to listen to the KL, I would like to remind you that we currently have a review of the law of plans in progress with the National Association of Municipalities, where we have had a committee to work since the last economic agreement with the municipalities. It is just a reminder to those who want more to be done in relation to the law of plans, that I expect that committee to report out here during the spring and that we will also find common ground on other matters in the area of the law of plans. But that's not what this proposal is about. As I have said, we are proposing, in the light of an extraordinary situation, to allow municipalities to grant derogations, to grant permits which will allow municipalities to set up these temporary dwellings. On the basis of the hearing, we have made a few changes to the bill we sent to the hearing. This is primarily in relation to the fact that there must now be a mandatory two-week consultation, so that we ensure that residents and others in the areas concerned are given the opportunity to express their opinion and that we grant the authorisation for a five-year period, so that it becomes temporary, which the municipalities also consider appropriate. All in all, I think that we have come up with a very good model, which will also enable the municipalities to quickly get a new tool to carry out this very specific task. So I am glad that there is broad support in the Folketing to help the municipalities with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103538	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103554	The debate is open. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327103626	This whole chemical problem can sometimes be a bit of a jungle to move around in. We want to secure our consumers against harmful chemistry. We must be able to rely on the fact that the things we surround ourselves with in everyday life are safe, and that is unfortunately not the case today. After all, we all come into contact on a daily basis with a great many different products that may contain harmful substances, for example. the phthalates to which the motion for a resolution refers. It can be anything from vinyl floors to the plastic mat on the dining table and the wires in our headphones; it can be in our children's toys; it can be in our clothes; it can be in the cosmetics and the other products we use on our bodies. The substances are endocrine disruptors, and thus they can contribute to e.g. reduced fertility, that especially boys are born with malformed genitals, high incidence of testicular cancer and low sperm quality, where Denmark is unfortunately one of the countries that has some boring statistics. That is why I fully agree with Enhedslisten that the use of these four phthalates should be limited where appropriate and possible. We must limit the substances in the products with which children can come into contact, and we must limit the substances in the products with which pregnant women come into contact, because we also know that embryos are particularly sensitive to these substances. That is why the government has been pushing for a long time in the European Union for a ban on drugs throughout Europe, and I will continue to do so. Indeed, it is a ban at EU level that gives us the best protection as consumers. Today there is already a ban on using some and we already have a ban on other phthalates in toys and childcare articles, and that ban was introduced in 2006 before REACH and still applies. But there is not enough protection for consumers in Europe, especially for children and pregnant women. That is why we must go further. The four phthalates dealt with here in the motion for a resolution are covered by what is known as the authorisation system under REACH and REACH, which is, of course, the regulation that exists at EU level in the field of chemicals. This means that it has been illegal to use these four phthalates in production in the European Union since 21 February this year, unless the European Commission has applied for a limited period of approval. Unfortunately, the scheme does not apply to goods produced outside the EU. For example: We know that we get a lot of goods from outside, for example. from China, and they can therefore legally contain phthalates, and there are currently no rules for importing those goods into the European Union. That is why the Danish Government is also pushing for more regulation, which also applies to imported products. Fortunately, much is happening at EU level, from which we look forward to the outcome. Let me mention four significant results. At the beginning of March, the Chemicals Agency completed their preliminary assessment of phthalates, and they now agree with Denmark that further regulation is needed. And this is not least due to hard work on the Danish side. On 11 March, I was able to inform you that the Chemicals Agency, together with Denmark, will be preparing proposals for new restrictions. You have simply asked Denmark for assistance in drawing up the new restriction. That result shall be clear at the beginning of 2016. The Commission is expected to adopt by the end of March a ban on the four phthalates in electronics products produced inside and outside the EU. This means removing phthalates in a wide range of electronic products, which are typically produced outside the EU's borders. It can, for example, be done. be the headphones we put into the ears, wires and cell phones. The rules must apply to the European Parliament and the Council before the final adoption, but it is very positive that we have now come so far. Since we in Denmark would like to have stricter conditions for authorising the use of the four phthalates in the EU, we proposed in 2014 that the substances be included in the candidate list of particularly problematic substances that are endocrine disruptors. A majority of the Committee of Member States of the Chemicals Agency supported the proposal, which was a great victory. However, the adoption was not unanimous and that is why the Agency has now sent the proposal to the Commission, and we are now waiting impatiently, of course, for the Commission's consideration, because we think there is good reason to go further along that path. However, much is pointing in the right direction, although there is still a long way to go. The previous Danish Order on phthalates, which is also mentioned in the motion for a resolution, limited the use of phthalates in all articles for indoor use and articles that could come into contact with skin and mucous membranes. However, the notice was issued in parallel with the examination of the Danish proposal on EU restrictions, and this was contrary to the procedures of REACH and the principle of loyal cooperation. That is why the announcement was lifted and we are now waiting for the outcome of the ongoing activities in the European Union. I expect the result to be new restrictions at EU level, but if things go differently, I will see if there are grounds for making more national restrictions on phthalates. I recognise that there is some room for manoeuvre in drawing up national rules. Of course, this presupposes that we follow the EU rules and procedures that exist when we want to make special regulation for Danish consumers, and this presupposes that we can document a risk at national level and, at the same time, cannot demonstrate that there is a need to deal with that risk at EU level. Already last year, in connection with our having to withdraw the Danish Order, I asked the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to investigate whether there is a new basis for Danish phthalate rules. We should have that in our hands if the Chemicals Agency's assessment does not lead to common EU regulation. As I have said, the Chemicals Agency has now announced that they will, together with Denmark, make a proposal to restrict the use of the four phthalates. This means that in the meantime no other Member State can impose restrictions, and that, of course, also applies to Denmark. That is why I am not setting a national process in motion until the process in the European Union is complete. As I said, I agree with Enhedslisten that the four phthalates should be phased out as soon as possible, where appropriate. The use of phthalates poses a health risk to be addressed, and Denmark has been fighting for too long. It is a step in the right direction that the Chemicals Agency has now also come to this realization. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution banning the four phthalates, but, of course, I am following developments in the European Union closely and pushing constantly to speed up. In general, we have good and broad cooperation here in the Danish Parliament about our chemical strategy, and it is my feeling that we agree that we want to protect our citizens from endocrine disruptors. That is why I would also like to call for us to work in committee on this proposal on a joint report so that we can send a clear signal to the European Union that the Danish Parliament is united in this matter. I think that would be very strong, so as to call for us to try to look at a joint report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104402	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104407	Now I've been working on these chemicals for so many years that I've learned to live with that there's a lot of words I can't pronounce. I don't usually talk about that, and I'm sure everything's gonna be okay. But the fact is that it is almost five years since the majority in the Folketing decided that a national ban should be implemented. So much has gone badly and well since then, and now we are faced with an opportunity to have a breakthrough at EU level. I agree with the Minister for the Environment that you must, of course, pursue. I understood what the Minister for the Environment said, so that if it turns out that the expectations we have of something happening in the European Union during 2016 are not being met, we will pull the possibilities for the national ban out of the drawer again. I also understood that the Minister for the Environment is working at the same time so that, if necessary, we will be ready at that time. And if that is what the Minister for the Environment has said, I would say that I fully agree with the Minister for the Environment today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104502	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104504	In other words, it was gratifying if we could get to where we agreed that we think that the best solution here and the best protection for our consumers is a ban at EU level or a restriction at EU level. So I would say that I think it is gratifying that today, when the Enhedslisten has chosen to table a resolution, we can actually make such good news that we have reached where the Chemicals Agency has now recognised that there is a need to limit these phthalates. So all in all, I think that we are on a very good basis for achieving the goal that we have been fighting for for many years together. But yes, as I said in my speech, I recognise that, in REACH too, there is scope for national rules, and I will, of course, look into that if we fail to achieve a satisfactory result in the EU process that is now under way. However, I think that the very best thing, including for our consumers, is that we will have a restriction on substances at EU level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104602	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104604	I agree with the Minister for the Environment with the clarification that, in the case of Enhedslisten, it is about the larger areas of the world in which these substances are banned, the better it is, and the easier it is of course for Denmark to administer a ban. For the more countries which require producers in third world countries that they do not want these chemicals to be included, the easier it is to comply with it and develop some other products. So there may be some variations in the perception of the European Union here, but basically I agree with the Minister for the Environment that there are some sensible options.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104641	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104643	But I will be very pleased to hear that, and I would just like to draw your attention to it. Per Clausen's attention to the fact that I mention just now in my speech that I am also working to ensure that we have rules for the products coming to Denmark from outside the European Union. After all, we have the challenge today that there are no rules for the goods that cross the borders of countries outside the European Union. So I think we also agree on the ambition that the more countries that limit these substances, the better. But we now have a very good platform in our European cooperation, where we are now seeing an open door for the first time in a long time, and we must of course use it. And we have even been given the opportunity to enter the area where the rules have to be drawn up. I think this is really pleasing and even a big shoulder patch for Denmark for the legwork we have done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104729	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. Then it's mr. Henrik Høegh as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327104750	Thank you. It is clear, then, that the European Commission will not accept Danish unilateralism in a ban on these four mentioned phthalates, which the Enhedslisten otherwise proposes with this motion for a resolution. Therefore, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, acting Minister for the Environment, decided to postpone the entry into force of the previously announced phthalate ban, after which the Minister for the Environment decided on 1 July 2014 to withdraw the phthalate Order altogether. The withdrawal took place because a ruling by the European Court of Justice ruled that Denmark cannot maintain a national ban on the four phthalates. The substances are included in the authorisation system of REACH, our directive in this area, so after 21 February 2015 it has been no longer allowed to use the substances without an authorisation. Unfortunately, it will not matter if these substances are found in products imported from outside the EU. And I am glad that the Minister is also prepared to allow that work to spread. After February 2015, as the Minister also said, the EU has started to examine whether there is a basis for imposing a restriction on the EU of goods containing the four phthalates that work we would very much like to support. In this context, we will examine whether there are new data that provide the basis for a ban. This is all very welcome and we fully support the Minister in her work on a ban in the European Union. The EU Chemicals Agency has also agreed, on the basis of the new data, as the Minister says, that there is reason to propose limiting these four phthalates. The Chemicals Agency is now completing a report. That is why we believe that this is a totally wrong time right now, when there is a positive development in the European Union in this area, to start introducing an isolated Danish ban. So full support from here for the Minister. I understand that there is a proposal for a report along the way, and I would just like to say from here that we must of course look at this during the work of the committee. We would very much like to contribute to a report that supports the Minister's work in the European Union. We will be concerned if this report concludes at the same time that if this work against expectation does not succeed in the European Union, Denmark must go on its own. But we must look at this during the work of the committee. For the time being, we support the Minister's work in the European Union in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105038	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105041	As far as that is concerned, sir. Henrik Høegh quite in line with the position of the Left in 2010, when the Left was not part of the majority that supported a national ban. But I just want to say to Mr. Simpson... Henrik Høegh said that it was not now because of the European Commission that the then Minister for the Environment dropped it at first; it was on the basis that the industry succeeded in convincing her that everything would collapse if a ban was implemented. Then she put it off, and then the European Commission entered the field later. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Henrik Høegh, that Denmark has not been convicted by the European Court of Justice in this case. This is a verdict against the Finnish Government, which was about another case, but it is claimed that it has spill-over effects on this. So the case is a little bit more complex than Mr. Henrik Høegh explained, but I would like to admit that it takes an unusual nerdy brain to always keep up with these transactions. But we have to discuss it further. I am a little sorry if the Left has not gone further on this issue than it was in 2010, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105139	In this way, I would like to express our full support today for the Minister's work in the European Union. We very much support the fact that if this is to have a value, it must have an effect, so at least it must be something that has been agreed at EU level. Well, that's right, then, as sir. Per Clausen says that when it first dawned on the then Minister for the Environment that a ban on these plastic softeners, as some of the four phthalates are, could actually have the consequences that something so often done as blood transfusions in a hospital would be difficult to implement, because no alternatives to the current ones have been found, yes, it is true that the Minister also got a different attitude in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105224	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105227	However, it is strange that something that cannot be done at all in one year can be done the year after just the EU adopts it. I mean, what I'm going to say to Mr. Knox. Henrik Høegh, is that the campaign that the industry was running at the time was deeply unspeakable, and with regard to exactly what we were talking about, hospital equipment, there are alternatives. There are alternatives produced in Denmark, but it is true that they are a little more expensive. It's kind of the challenge. But otherwise there's nothing new in this. After all, the Left has always refused to take any national initiatives to protect citizens from dangerous chemicals, and they have then referred to the European Union. There is one exception. I think it was while sir... Henrik Høegh was the Minister for Food, because it actually succeeded in getting the Left to support an intervention against bisphenol A, which could be used exactly the same arguments as can be used here. So it would be possible to press the Left; let us see if it could not be done again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105317	If sir... Per Clausen was a little more geeky... I'm pretty sure he is, but sometimes you can have a selective memory... then there was exactly the area around bisphenol A in babysuckle easy available alternatives. There was a direct warning from our Danish researchers in the field. That is what caused the then Minister of Food to take action and that it was quickly followed up by other countries in this area. But otherwise, I am delighted today that Mr. Per Clausen shows the necessary patience in relation to the Minister for the Environment and her work in the EU. It is not always that we in the Danish Parliament see that Mr. Per Clausen has respect for the work of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105357	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Mette Reissmann as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105409	I guess there's only ugly things to say about these four phthalates. The mere fact that the phthalates can affect our ability to have healthy children can make you very, very angry. What can they not do to our children at all, born as unborn? Indeed, it is almost unbearable to have to think the idea to the end, and there should be no doubt here or elsewhere that the Socialists are very concerned about protecting consumers from harmful chemistry. So thank you to Enhedslisten for bringing up the debate on the four health-damaging phthalates; this is an incredibly important debate. Nor can there be any doubt that we should have the harmful substances banned. That is why I am also pleased that we in Denmark have pressed hard for the EU Chemicals Agency to see the sense of a ban. You have now asked us to help, as the Minister has already mentioned in his speech, with a proposal which, as a follow-up to the Agency's Scientific Committee, could lead to the European Commission banning the substances. And with the help of Denmark, the Chemicals Agency will also finalise the final assessment of how far-reaching restrictions are needed. For the way forward, common rules are in the EU; that is what will protect us consumers most. That is why it is also true that the Minister for the Environment and the Government have put all the effort into speeding up, and the pressure is still being kept very hard to get better rules in the European Union. And precisely the pressure under the European Union for a ban on drugs throughout Europe is what this is all about. In Denmark we have a ban on phthalates in toys and products for young children, because the REACH regulation has limited some phthalates. We also have a ban on other phthalates in toys, which were introduced as far back as 2006 within REACH. After all, the four phthalates mentioned in the motion for a resolution have been illegal in production within the European Union since 21 February of this year. And, as has just been said in the Minister's speech, there is also a world outside the European Union that can of course cause concern. We do not have an import ban on products with phthalates that should come from third world countries. The previous Order on phthalates taped the use of phthalates in all products for indoor use and products that could come into contact with skin and mucous membranes, but the Order was issued at the same time as the Danish proposal on EU restrictions was dealt with. This was contrary to the procedures of REACH and the principle of loyal cooperation. The Order was repealed because the government is not acting in violation of EU law. Now, after all, we are awaiting the results of the crucial activities that are taking place in the European Union and the results of our cooperation with the EU Chemicals Agency, and we hope that it will end up with new restrictions. In other words, the process in the European Union must be completed before any national process can begin. Therefore, given that crucial processes are under way at EU level in relation to limiting phthalates and because the government cannot act in violation of EU law, the Socialists cannot support the proposal. Having said that, however, I would say that we certainly share the concerns and eagerness of the proposers to limit the four harmful phthalates.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105727	That's it? Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327105747	Thank you. Since the Environment Rapporteur of the Danish People's Party cannot be present, I have been allowed to read her speech. The Enhedslisten's proposal is a follow-up to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy of 21 April 2010 on motion for a resolution No. B 47. A majority in the Committee of Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten called on the Minister for the Environment to introduce a national ban on phthalates. This should be done unless the industry itself provided evidence before 1 October 2010 that these substances are safe. This has not happened. The four substances have been on the so-called candidate list of the European Union and, after 21 February of this year, the use of these substances is no longer permitted if no authorisation has been granted. In the Danish People's Party, like the rest of the parties behind the report, we want to protect the population from the dangerous substances. Having said that, I would like to say that, unfortunately, it does not make much sense if the substances are not banned everywhere. And they won't be with this proposal. As the authors themselves write, it is only European companies that use the substances that are affected by this restriction. It will not matter if the substances are found in imported goods from outside the EU, and in a world where everyone gets goods from all kinds of countries, we clearly have a problem. Instead, we should call for a labelling system so that consumers actually have the opportunity to opt out of the substances. Whether this is possible in the jumble of rules that exist in the European Union, we do not know. But maybe the Minister can answer that. In any case, we in the Danish People's Party are looking forward to something happening in this area, but also that it is happening in a way that really protects consumers or at least gives them the option of opting out. But to think that you protect some by going alone in Denmark in this area is an illusion. The Danish People's Party believes that a report should be made, as has also been mentioned by several others, so that we can do something at EU level, as we do, for example. did it with bisphenol A.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327110000	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lone Loklindt as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327110009	Let it be said from the outset that the Radical Left is of course concerned about the dangerous chemicals that cannot be avoided in our environment. That is why, of course, we can say that the intention of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution is that we should get the dangerous phthalates out of our products. That is why it is also very gratifying, as the Minister for the Environment said, that this matter has actually gained a great deal of momentum in the EU system. The fact that we have been banned from February this year, that the four phthalates are part of the production of goods in the European Union, is a major step. But, of course, the most important thing is that it is now also suggesting that there will be an opportunity to have an EU ban on imports of the substances concerned. It is, of course, gratifying that we in the Folketing are generally concerned about the health of our citizens in relation to the many, many thousands of substances with which we are surrounded and about which there is a lack of clarity. However, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Health, we have also had a joint hearing recently on endocrine disruptors, where it emerged that we in Denmark are in fact particularly hard hit. If we compare it with countries such as Finland, Sweden and Norway, this suggests that fertility in Denmark is much lower, and it is still unclear what this is due to. So there is good reason for alarm bells to ring in relation to endocrine disruptors. But when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said before that it should be possible to avoid it and to advise consumers, then I have to say that there are already marks. We do not need to create new brands because there are swan-marked products, and in this way we can avoid getting the substances in question and others for that matter, harmful chemistry in the vicinity of the body and thus avoid health damage. Only yesterday I attended a meeting of the Chemical Forum, where we had a meeting precisely because of the common chemical strategy we have made across all parties in the Folketing. And it turned out that it is also possible for companies to substitute substances, but that it is a process that takes time, just like processes in the EU and the REACH system takes time. That is why the Radical Left is very concerned that we are now pushing for more money for research in the areas in question, in endocrine disruptors, so that we can get the documentation needed to obtain a general EU ban. Having said that, I would like to say that we on the part of the Radical Left would like to see it fail via the EU track, of course we should look at whether we cannot do anything in the national track. After all, EU legislation opens up the possibility of doing so. However, right now it is important that we follow the international lead, because EU regulation will actually provide a regulation that concerns production worldwide, thereby providing consumers with the very best protection, also in relation to products that are imported. As I said, we support the intentions, but not the resolution. I look forward to the committee reading on a report that puts pressure on the EU process, for which the Minister has worked hard, but where we also look at how, if it should happen, it will not become an EU ban, as we want, then we will be able to find an opportunity to legally create a national ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327110436	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327110446	Here, too, I stand and have the first reading instead of Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who is the SF's rapporteur on the proposal. First of all, a few comments on endocrine disruptors in general. In 1995 Parliament held its first hearing on endocrine disruptors. I took the initiative, then I was chairman of the Parliament's Environment Committee. That was 20 years ago. Since then, my party has had a strong focus on how to get rid of disruptive substances. When I mention it, it is also a little to say that in politics things take time. I think I'm gonna write a book saying it's gonna take 20 years. But I would say that on this point I still think that we are not nearly the place we should be after 20 years. We're looking at all hormone disruptors. It is only now, in fact, that we may be getting some breakthrough that is bigger than the one about grabbing the individual substances that we even have to deal with in the Folketing and that sort of thing. It is a much bigger problem, and it is a fundamental problem, almost for the species, if you are to get a little up in the higher air layers. Yesterday we had a similar discussion, not about the four drugs here, but quite generally, in the Nordic Council, where the Minister was also present as President of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and adopted an opinion on non-toxic everyday life, which also highlighted it here. It is of course an interesting thing that the Nordic countries are fairly far in the political ability to decide some more drastic things. We are also one of the places where a lot of work has been done on it. Twenty years ago, American researchers were clearly leading, but today it can be said that the centre we have in Denmark and which my party has made a case for 50 million. kr. I dare not say in the world, but at least by those I can see around, and one of my party's efforts and my own efforts in the coming years will be that we will also make it a Nordic centre for endocrine disruptors and then really make a concerted Nordic effort. So to the proposal. I think the proposal is an example of how I think we should work, and we have been working on it historically. The first ban on phthalates in toys applied to toys for 0-3 year olds, and that was while Svend Auken was Minister for the Environment, and I think one can say that there we just did. That's where we actually did this. We just did it and saw the others that we meant it and we had some documentation, and then it became EU rules. In a way, I think the same thing is true here, that we have received a Danish flag, and then the answer has come that it may well be that you should look at it, and then Denmark has been asked to be involved in making the documentation which, if necessary, should make some restrictions, possibly a ban on this substance. This is a good example of the fact that, from time to time, one has to show oneself and show a will, and then one has to be willing to go in and negotiate and document and drop off the resources that one has to. So full support for what the Minister has said, and that is why it is also important for us that it should be introduced as an EU rule. In these cases, national legislation really needs to be used as a threat and perhaps a way to change EU legislation, because when you make EU legislation, as others have said, it is actually the case on a large number of these points that if you have made EU legislation, it also applies to the products you sell from China. And since China delivers largely, I will not say everything we carry on us, but a lot of what we have around us, we have thus changed quite a lot in China. I would just mention China, but that actually means that since it is the world's production site and we are also addressing the fact that it is what is being sold that comes from outside, it is a fine strategy. So just a word of warning to Mr. Kim. Per Clausen, if you'll allow me to bring this at the end. Sir. Per Clausen's argument may lead directly to Mr. Per Clausen's party will be the purely EU supporter party. I won't be sorry, but I just want to warn you. I've been sitting in those arguments myself, and I kind of know what the slippery lane looks like. That's a nice comment to Enhedslisten... it's gonna come.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111022	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111025	I just don't want Mr. Knox to... Steen Gade is going to walk away with some hopes that cannot be met. I have managed to be 60 years old without changing my view of the European Union. Unless it was to happen in the senile phase of my life, I think I can promise you. Steen Gade, that there will be no change in my perception of the European Union for the next 20 years either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111051	I'd like to say to Mr. Per Mrs Clausen, you can say that for a very long time until you discover that you have argued in such a way that you have become a European supporter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111103	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111105	I would like to ask that Mr Seligman be allowed to speak on behalf of the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group. Steen Gade stops saying something like that. It is directly harmful to me and makes my life in my own party very difficult. So with that, sir. Steen Gade says here, he'll probably take me in the opposite direction to what he wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111122	I'm receiving the warning, but I might be able to see that that means that Mr. Per Clausen is close to understanding what I'm saying, but that he can get into trouble in the Enhedslisten. But I'm not gonna give Mr. Knox. Per Clausen further difficulties in Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111148	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111156	Thank you. When you read the comments on the proposal here, you see that it is almost a horror cabinet of accidents that these substances are supposed to cause. I have to say this frankly: we have no opportunity whatsoever to take a professional view of the validity of the listed consequences and therefore, as in all other cases of a strong professional character, choose to await proposals for action by the relevant official bodies in this field, not least the European Commission. As the Minister has already mentioned, this issue is in a very good process. So a proposal to go once again in this area in relation to other EU countries will not immediately be tempted by why we do not wish to support this proposal so far. However, as many others have said, the way forward is, of course, common rules on the part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111255	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111301	Thank you. We fully agree that the use of endocrine disrupting phthalates should be restricted, as expressed in the proposal, but I also agree with most other rapporteurs that this should be done at EU level. So our message is like that of most others: let us wait for the process in the European Union before we may start running our own track in Denmark. If the process in the European Union does not lead to new restrictions, then I hear the Minister say that she will start a national process, and then we will have to continue the discussion there. The Minister is fighting a good battle in the European Union, and we support it, it is there, and not only here in the Chamber, that the fight against the phthalates must be fought. I noted that even the Danish People's Party argued for the importance of taking joint decisions in the EU and not going alone in Denmark, and that must also be the signal from this. I have seen the draft joint report in committee. This seems to be a good starting point for further discussions, and we will, of course, work constructively on this in committee. So, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111400	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327111409	That's right, sir. Villum Christensen said that when you read the comments on this motion for a resolution, you can get the impression that these chemicals have really, really serious and harmful consequences. They probably do, and there we are in the very happy situation on the one hand that we in Denmark have some of the world's best researchers and some of the world's best research environments in this field, and it's nice to be able. But it also means that, when we talk to these scientists, we can know how serious the situation is on the other hand. Others have also mentioned the hearing held by the Danish Parliament's Environment Committee together with the Health Committee in November 2014, where a number of researchers, including from different environments, participated in Denmark. And there, when you left that hearing, there was no doubt that there were many of the challenges we are facing now with the development of testicular cancer, breast cancer, deformed genitals and questions about a number of the diseases that we often perceive as lifestyle diseases that can be associated with these chemicals and endocrine disruptors. Nor was there much doubt that what was the greatest accident was basically that even these very skilled researchers were not able to say with certainty where the limit was on when an impact is sound. And it's connected to this with the famous cocktail effects that sound really festive, but which are not at all festive, because it's about mixing the cocktail of hormone disruptors that we are exposed to in everyday life, so it has a much greater effect than if the effects of them were added together individually. All this is, in fact, a rather half-old discussion in Denmark. Sir. Steen Gade suggests it's been going on for 20 years, and he's certainly right about that. At least I know that it has been going on for at least the last ten years, when I have had the pleasure of working on it. It has been, among other things. because at a very early stage we actually found out that there were some serious problems about phthalates. It was on the basis of some relatively simple studies carried out back in 2008 and 2009, where it turned out that there were high concentrations in very many of the products with which children had close contact. At the same time, phthalates were found to be chemical substances with oestrogen-like effects which could damage fertility and cause foetal damage and malformed genital organs, etc. So that's what we knew in 2009, and I just want to say that now we know a lot more, and all the new things we're told are only one way, namely that this challenge is huge. That is also why, on the basis of a motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten on 21 April 2010, a majority of Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, as far as I remember, cannot remember, because we have made several proposals; sometimes there have been other parties, and I do not want to make anyone angry here today, so I take that reservation; but the Enhedslisten was at least the proposer of this decision to make this report, which said that a national ban should now be implemented. We were careful back then. We said that if the industry could prove that this was harmless, we would not implement a ban. We also talked back then about the fact that if something happened at EU level, we would, of course, also agree to go into it. Now, just at that time, when it comes to phthalates, nothing happened at EU level. So it was then agreed to make this national ban. The process has been a little long afterwards. In May 2013, the Acting Minister for the Environment, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, postponed the entry into force of the phthalate ban on the basis of some views expressed by industry, which described a Denmark which would almost go back to the Stone Age if this ban were implemented. It is to be hoped that they have been thinking down in the European Union about what the industry is going to say when we start this ban. I would say that in virtually all areas where industry claimed there were no alternatives, they themselves boasted on their websites that they had alternatives. Well, it makes things a little complicated. And in other areas, we knew that alternatives were produced in Denmark. So it's gonna be okay, with the alternatives. But that meant that the process was postponed. And then it happened that a judgment was handed down which, moreover, was about a case in Finland, which in some way was about something a little different, but where the Danish Government's assessment was that it would result in this ban we were dealing with in Denmark being contrary to the EU Treaty. In the light of this, we tabled this motion for a resolution. And then the lucky and happy thing happened, not least because of the keen pressure of the Danish government and the hard work of talented Danish researchers, I believe that there was a move from the EU which signalled that Denmark would like to be involved in an EU legislative process. Of course, we think it is sensible and good that this should happen. In other words, when we were discussing bisphenol A and were given a national ban in that area, our position was always that, of course, we should work to obtain an EU ban as well. And that is also what we received in the wake of it. So I would like to say that now it was a little difficult for me to understand what the Danish People's Party meant, and I did not want to start questioning the substitute rapporteur in all sorts of detail. If what is meant in the Danish People's Party is that we should use the method we used in connection with bisphenol A, then I am quite safe. For then we implemented a national ban and later it became an EU ban. Despite the fact that the Danish People's Party may have changed a little of its attitude, I do not want to go as far as the Conservative rapporteur to say that DF has changed EU attitudes and now believes that it is always EU solutions that are needed and that national solutions are always evil; it would probably be going too far then I hope that we can maintain that the Danish People's Party can also be part of a joint report. And I have the expectation that both the Conservatives and the Liberals and the Liberals will be able to do so. No one has been directly hostile to this resolution today, so there are good opportunities to create new illusions that the co-operative popular government can work. So although we can well see that a very large majority in the Danish Parliament has today rejected the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, at the same time we have also made it very clear that we support the government and the minister in the process that is taking place in the European Union. I would also like to say that it is my clear impression that the Danish Government and researchers and officials have made an incredible effort. That it can help a little in some situations, I think that there is also pressure here in Denmark on the Danish Government, which makes it push forward, is then a completely different matter. However, it should not change anything about the fact that a great deal of work has been done, and I think that we should back it up and hope that it can lead to a result in the course of 2016. So it doesn't matter that the process started in Denmark a 7-8 years ago that it takes so long. For as Mr. Steen Gade suggested that it sometimes takes even longer when it comes to EU issues. And I also fully agree that the right thing would be if we had a decision that when endocrine disruptors are dangerous, they are forbidden. Basically, I thought that was what REACH was all about, namely not using products that had not been proven not to be dangerous. However, it has certainly been shown that the implementation of this could give the impression that it is almost the opposite, namely that you can use anything until it is proven that it is dangerous. However, I think it is right that we should have a basic solution which went in that direction. As long as we do not have it, we will have to take it, if I may say so, tue for tue and fabric for substance. And I think that with the discussion that has taken place in the Parliamentary Chamber today, and with the opportunity to make a fairly quick joint report from perhaps even a unanimous Parliament, we have now come a step closer to the situation in which these dangerous phthalates have been removed from the everyday life to which we expose our children and, in fact, also ourselves. And I think that would be a huge step forward. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112216	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112219	Thank you. I think sir... Per Clausen was onto some of the right things when he had to say what the Danish People's Party thinks. In fact, we support a report at EU level. It depends, of course, on what is going to be in it, but we hope that we can get the European Union to take part in this task, because even if Mr. Per Clausen is probably in favour of Denmark leaving the EU completely, is the Danish People's Party more sceptical and says less EU, more Denmark, but this is precisely one of the areas where we believe that we will actually benefit from lifting in groups and cooperating with other European countries. It was just to make it clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112256	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112258	I just hope that at the end of this case it will become clear that the Danish People's Party is no more opposed to the possibility of taking national initiatives than the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the SF. That would be a strange situation anyway. Sir, I'm afraid so. Morten Marinus, forgive me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112316	That's it? Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak on this matter. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112340	The debate is open. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112354	I think there is a broad consensus that local wastewater treatment should not mean that landowners who find it difficult to pay for the treatment of their waste water should be turned into criminals. This is also the reason why we have recently adopted a legislative amendment designed to ensure this. We have introduced two things with the amendment of the law quite recently. Firstly, a payment scheme for the economically needy landowners who are required to clean their waste water and, secondly, a subscription scheme for landowners to operate and maintain the sewer lines on the site. This solution ensures that citizens can pay their share more easily without the bill being passed on to the community and other landowners. The Enhedslisten is now proposing, with this motion for a resolution, as I understand it, to extend the system that the Danish Parliament has just adopted, by making the repayment scheme also an offer to all citizens who are required to separate sewer, regardless of their financial situation. There was a reason why we did not choose to offer the repayment scheme to everyone. It is not necessarily entirely free for the community. With a repayment scheme there is also a risk that some people will not pay, and then others will have to pay, in this case all the other users of the wastewater solution. Therefore, it should also be the case that a repayment scheme or a loan scheme, as it is, should only be an offer when it is absolutely necessary. The more on the repayment scheme, the more fragile the solution becomes, and the more expensive it can be for the neighbors. In this context, we also chose to distinguish between sewage treatment on the one hand in the open country, where there is a requirement for wastewater treatment as a result of the water plans and, therefore, a national one, one might say, demand for wastewater treatment, and then separate sewage treatment, which is one of several possible tools for municipalities to use in their climate adaptation. This was the distinction that we made with the bill, where we also had a number of meetings and discussions before we tabled the bill, and where we therefore chose not to include separate sewage collection in the solution for the economically cramped landowners that we agreed on there and which, incidentally, Enhedslisten also supported. However, I recognise, of course, that the citizens who have been ordered to separate waste water and rain water can also be financially intimidated. This is precisely why we have made it possible for waste water companies to offer all landowners a clearer solution with this subscription scheme. They can simply offer the landowners to manage the operation and maintenance of their sewers on the site. As I said, this system can also include separate sewerage, i.e. separation of rainwater and waste water. Then the landowners pay continuously for the company's services and this allows the landowners' cost of separate sewering to be divided into smaller bits. That is exactly what I am reading the Enhedslisten's proposal that you would like. So we have already adopted the subscription scheme, and the solution is therefore also to the challenge described by Enhedslisten. Now it is up to the waste water companies and the municipalities, which own the waste water companies, to take advantage of this opportunity. The Enhedslisten also proposes a payment scheme for local rainwater diversion, which is also called LAR. The municipality cannot order LAR to landowners connected to the sewage system. LAR is established on the ground owner's own initiative and after the municipality's permission. So nobody here is being forced to do anything. Nor is it quite clear to me whether Enhedslisten wants to change the legislation so that it will be possible to impose on the landowners the establishment of LAR, but we may be able to clarify that. In that case, I would not recommend it. LAR is not necessarily a economically viable solution. That is why, in my view, LAR should continue to be voluntary. If a landowner wants LAR, the companies have the possibility to repay part of the connection fee to the landowner, i.e. the landowner's cost of LAR has already been reduced considerably. That is why it is unnecessary to set up a repayment scheme. It will not be able to do anything that we cannot already do, and it will entail an economic risk for all the other landowners who are connected to the sewage system. That is not appropriate. With these reasons, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112823	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112827	Perhaps the last one is one of the core challenges that we see at least, because the impression we have got is that there are several places in the country where we would like to choose solutions other than separate sewering because they are better, but that it is actually really hard to get some of the landowners who are in the area into it, because they see that the economic conditions that are simply worse. So our proposal can be said to be about putting the options that are available in relation to separate sewering on an equal footing with alternative solutions, which one would like to choose in many places, because they can be better and cheaper on the one hand, and some other qualities on the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112912	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327112913	Okay, that was then a clarification of what Enhedslisten thinks and what Enhedslisten wants. So, I do not see that there is such a form, but we can perhaps try to see whether we can get a little closer in committee, what exactly is the problem that Enhedslisten is circling, because I have certainly found it difficult to fully identify it in connection with this motion for a resolution. As I have said, I believe that with the recent legislative proposal that we have adopted by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, we have actually tried to create new opportunities, including for municipalities and waste water companies, in order to be able to go in and set up precisely such a payment scheme for some of these solutions. After all, with previous legislative changes in relation to climate adjustment, we have also provided the opportunity for waste water companies to go in and co-finance different solutions. So I actually believe that today, in their climate adjustment planning, the municipalities have very good opportunities to go in and make plans that are also adapted to the conditions prevailing in a particular local area. But let's finally see if we can get closer to what Enhedslisten thinks is the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113016	Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113018	I think that would be very sensible, because what we know is that in some municipalities and some water companies at least they say to us that they have a challenge to create favourable conditions for choosing solutions other than separate sewering where it is good. There are two options here: either they have misunderstood it and therefore we can clarify to them what opportunities already exist, or there may be a need to make some changes and some improvements. And we are quite prepared to enter into a discussion with the Minister for the Environment and, incidentally, in the committee on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113053	Well, I'd be happy to help you figure out if there are any misunderstandings out there in relation to what you actually have of opportunities today. Because, as I said, I believe that with the various legislative amendments we have adopted, we have provided both municipalities and waste water companies with very good tools to go in and carry out this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113111	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Henrik Høegh from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113131	Thank you. This resolution from the Enhedslisten has some clear parallels to L 86, which, as the Minister also mentioned, allows supply companies to become a financial institution for needy homeowners who have difficulty in paying the costs and connection costs of sewage collection. This was true of open land sewerage, and the new here is so that it should also apply to separate urban sewerage. The Left was against at the time, because the proposal did not contain any funding. There was no economy associated with it, except that it was said that it must be so clear, and it is, as I read, the same model that Enhedslisten is showing here. This means that it is in some of the areas where there are a great many families below these income limits which can be considered and which will benefit from the supply company's activities as a financial institution that the supply company can face serious financial difficulties. Now it is the case that both I and Mr. Per Clausen challenges a future in municipal politics after the next parliamentary elections, and I should perhaps ask Mr. Per Clausen to read about all the warnings given by KL in connection with L 86, and the same goes for this proposal. We are really concerned that the rural community utilities, which have many families below these income limits, will find it very difficult to grant these loans. That means by law that the first three years are free of repayment, and who does not want it? And then what happens? Then a lot of things could have changed. So we have to expect everyone below these income limits to accept such a favorable offer. The Left does not say with this that these people who are being forced on connection costs should not be helped. In fact, I come from a municipality where we have an agreement with a financial institution which, in the vast majority of cases, provides this financing as a private loan. So it's possible to help these people without turning our utilities into financial institutions. That is why I have to say that the Left is also opposed to this proposal. We cannot stand up for a law that says that the utilities must now be financial institutions on behalf of the other citizens of the municipality. There are, of course, municipalities where this will have very major consequences for those who then have the opportunity to pay, and this will have very major economic consequences for the utilities. I would ask you to read KL's warnings in this area. So the Left is against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113429	Sir. Per Clausen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113430	That's right. You always have to read what KL writes. And, of course, we must also try to listen to what individual municipalities say. I'm just gonna ask sir. Henrik Høegh, if he does not agree with me that it may be a challenge to get support for solutions which, from a socio-economic, environmental point of view, may be better than pure sewering if you do not have similar funding opportunities in relation to the alternative solutions. In other words, this is one model; another model could be to say that it was possible for waste water companies to take over responsibility for waste water also on private grounds and thus be able both to finance and implement some solutions, of course in cooperation with the landowners, who were thus financed. Well, there are different options. The problem is that whatever you come up with to reject the proposals that are coming, there is still a challenge that I think we need to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113534	Of course, it is possible to choose the environmental solution, to make a model which would make it so expensive for those citizens who are still trying to live in rural areas to pay their waste water contributions that they are moving from there. Then, of course, once the citizens have disappeared, they will have a solution. Now we are in agreement, including with the Enhedslisten, I hope that we want to keep a population out there in rural areas, and that is why we are at least taking things a little seriously when we read the consultation contributions of the individual municipalities, among others. Guldborgsunds, who says they expect it to be over 10%. of their citizens, who will be below these income limits and thus ask for funding of the supply company. I'm gonna be against this. We have some other solutions out there in reality, and we like them better. It is still the case that the individual citizen is contributing, and we are contributing under the conditions allowed by the financial institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113634	Per Clausen? No. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113646	It is a joint responsibility to ensure that we have a clean water environment throughout Denmark, and we must of course help needy homeowners who may find it difficult to pay for the treatment of their waste water. This is precisely why, in January of this year, we also amended the waste water law to provide aid for economically needed landowners in a situation where the municipalities are required to provide sewage treatment or to improve decentralised treatment. We gave the municipalities the obligation to offer an aid scheme. It lays down a minimum three-year period for the discharge of obligations and a 20-year repayment scheme for the economically deprived property owners who are required to clean their waste water. At the same time, we introduced a subscription scheme for the landowner for the operation and maintenance of sewer lines on the site. In this way, citizens can pay their share more easily so that the bill is not passed on to the community and environmental objectives are also met as soon as possible. The Enhedslisten then proposes that a repayment scheme should also be offered to all citizens who are required to separate waste water and rainwater, no matter how much money these specific citizens have on the coffin floor. We only believe that a loan scheme should be an offer from the Community to the homeowners where it is absolutely necessary. But make no mistake. The well-being and prosperity of the citizens are therefore also of great concern to the Socialists. On the other hand, precisely in this context, we have opened up the possibility for waste water companies to offer all landowners a subscription system for the operation and maintenance of their sewers on the site, and this also applies to the separation of rainwater and waste water, i.e. a quite economically manageable solution. We therefore believe that a balanced solution to the problem has already been found, and the Socialists cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113837	Then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113847	Thank you. Since the Danish People's Party's Environment Rapporteur cannot be present, I have been allowed to read the rapporteur's speech. On 22 January Parliament adopted Bill No. L 86, which deals with some of these issues, which Enhedslisten also writes about here. The Enhedslisten will now expand this scheme. We in the Danish People's Party want to see in the first place whether the subscription scheme we have provided for in L 86 could be sufficient to help those homeowners who cannot pay. The Enhedslisten now proposes that everyone, including in urban areas, should have the same opportunities regardless of income. The Danish People's Party opposes this, but we would like to look at the proposal and ask about it in the committee work before we take a final position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113940	Thank you. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327113954	This motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten does not concern, as one would think, when one has listened to the debate, sewering in the open country, but is about commanding separate sewering. This was, as has already been the case in the debate, something that we chose to take out or not to include in the legislation we made here in January, in order to provide for a loan scheme for the economically needy citizens who had been ordered to sewer in connection with sewage collection in the open country. There are many good reasons why municipalities choose to make separate sewering and, for that matter, also local sewers of rainwater in areas associated with climate adaptation. After all, we have seen how storms and extreme weather have caused our sewer systems to fail in many places, and therefore there are all kinds of solutions that come into use, for example. also LAR solutions mentioned by Enhedslisten, in particular when municipalities lay out new areas for settlement. Otherwise, as an ordinary homeowner or homeowner, you can choose to make a local derivation of rainwater on your property. I do not know whether green roofs count in this respect, but at least rainbeds and other ways of diverting into fascinating possibilities one has and which one can get a contribution to in that many municipalities pay back part of the connection contribution to the sewer. So there are already arrangements in relation to LAR solutions, but in relation to separate sewering, we did so by the last legal process that we allowed municipalities to make subscription arrangements, so that it is of course smart to make separate sewering, i.e. separate rainwater and waste water, in an entire area. After all, it does not make sense to do so in a few houses with which you have to have a whole area. But it would be a huge expense if we were to start giving subsidies here, and where would that money actually come from? you can ask Enhedslisten. One of the opportunities which the municipalities also have, and which we have had very little focus on, is in fact that the municipality or the waste water company can take over ownership of part of the sewer pipes, namely the part that goes from the common system in the way into the base. This is something which municipalities and waste water companies can look at together where it is possible. The Radical Left believes that this proposal is superfluous and does not want to support it, but is very aware that, of course, many different solutions are needed in the municipalities in order to cope with climate change adjustment. Therefore, it is also important that we have a very broad sharing of experience on what measures are appropriate in each area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327114332	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327114342	Thank you. In this case, too, I am the rapporteur instead of Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who will fit the proposal in committee. I would say that, as we have seen from the proposal, we think it is appropriate to find out whether there can be any gaps in what we have adopted, and we will actually use the work of the committee for that purpose. And that means that we are concerned that we are actually using the tool of separate sewering in people's houses. We are also concerned that we can make it work in practice in a simple way not only when new buildings are being built, because that is easy enough to do, but also when it comes to taking out residential areas where it is found that it is cheaper for society and therefore for the citizens of the city as a whole, that you take a whole area and that there is separate sewering. The former Minister for the Environment mentioned something that is also being discussed in other countries, namely that it would be necessary to pay for that water if land had been fortified so as not to see so much water leaked down. She stopped because there was so much opposition to it. However, there are a whole series of discussions here that could be looked at. For it is clear that, in the case of the land owner who has fortified land, that is, where it is all asphalt or it is typical tiles or something like that, there is not as much drainage on the land that he has as on the ground of the one who actually has a beautiful flowerbed or a lawn. So it's not because I'm going to open that discussion now. I would just like to say that we will use the committee work to find out if there is a gap in what we have been created here. The tool that I think is very important, namely separate sewering, and which contributes to the fact that the rainwater does not actually go into the sewer for a large number of properties, so that it can be used and can also be used in large areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327114616	Thank you. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327114622	We have recently adopted a bill which allows households with an income of less than DKr 300,000. may be able to repay their costs in connection with waste water treatment obligations. Several rapporteurs have also mentioned this. In this context, KL pointed out that supply companies could face serious problems in terms of liquidity if they were to go out and act as banks in this area, among others. because, as you know, it is the most disadvantaged with the least possible means of complying with the payment requirements that are the customer group. Now Enhedslisten raises the question of whether these companies should be ordered to extend the scope of financing to separate sewers. There are a great many good reasons for separating white and black water, including when it comes to the economy of the companies, but in this way we need to pay more to houseowners by speeding up very ambitious waste water plans, we see no reason for doing so. Companies already have the opportunity today to take individual account of those landowners who have the greatest problems, and then we do not think that we should push these plans more quickly at any cost than citizens can keep up with. After all, the Minister has already mentioned the subscription system. So with these words, we just want to say that we think this proposal is superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327114744	Thank you. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327114751	Thank you. We recently adopted a legislative amendment that responds to people with economic challenges by requiring improved wastewater treatment as well as the operation and maintenance of waste water management plants. It was about the treatment of waste water in the open country, where there is a concrete need for action against approx. 35,000 properties. Large investments are required here, and not everyone has the opportunity to pay for the connection, and this has led to police reports in some places. That bill backed the Conservative People's Party, not least because it was largely identical to a resolution tabled by the Conservative People's Party in this Chamber that year ago. However, there are significant differences between our previous resolution and the Minister's draft law, L 86, and also now the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. The target group in L 86 was limited to approx. 35,000 properties with special economic challenges. We also provided that the possibility of a loan was for households with an annual household income below DKK 300,000. This proposal also applies to people with a significantly higher household income. Many could probably find it attractive with Enhedslisten offer, but of course the water companies should not go further than has already been agreed at L 86, act as bank for so many citizens. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327114910	Thank you to all the rapporteurs. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327114921	It is true, as several rapporteurs and the Minister have also indicated, that this is a subset which, in some sense, was left over when we negotiated the solution in relation to guaranteeing funding for the citizens who live in rural areas in the open country and who, because they have now been charged with sewers, have been subject to higher costs. It can of course be said that it was a little late too, because it was actually a long time ago that it was decided that sewage treatment should be carried out. So it was an emergency solution that came late, and some might also say that it was too bad for those who had been hit by it earlier. In this context, we also discussed the whole issue of separate sewering, and we also discussed the whole question of whether we could do something to ensure that it was also economically more affordable and attractive for landowners to be involved in solutions that were not clean, if I may say so, improving the sewer capacity, but also about making some of the green solutions • local distractions to fascinations and lag basins, rainwater beds or collection and recycling of rainwater • where, in some cases, we could also make some really large, coherent solutions that could be sensible both from an environmental and from a climate assessment. It is sometimes the case in negotiations that when you get to some point, the Minister begins to look as if you either agree on something similar to what the Minister has already agreed to, or you can find something else to spend your time on in the following weeks, because you are no longer going down that road. That is why we landed it where we landed it, and we voted in favour of the bill and were happy about it. Here we come back with the second issue that we would like to raise again. I would like to say that, in reality, when we talk about this, it is not as much our solution as I am focused on, because it may well be that you have to look for some other solutions, but then it is more the challenge that we have at least. And here I have to say that both DANVA and at least several municipalities and water companies have also said to us that they have the problem, that when you want to make coherent solutions that are actually dependent on doing things at the same time, it is a problem that you may well be able to get the municipality to adopt some fine plan, and then you can impose on the landowners that they have to implement it, and then you get the landowners, and that is fair and fair enough when they have to get the money themselves out and get some time to implement it. But then it actually means that it can block a reasonable plan for how to make a common solution. So the whole discussion here is really about how we solve the task of providing favourable conditions also for solutions that include several landowners acting simultaneously and jointly. I know you can just say that they should be able to find out out out there, but the economy can play a crucial role. I also know that this is an issue which DANVA has raised several times. The trouble with DANVA in this case is simply that they have raised the issue and then they have put forward three proposals which they all end up rejecting and do not want to implement. And one of them is almost what we have proposed here. In fact, I think I will agree with those who say that this may be a matter that we must try to discuss in committee and find out if there are any gaps in which we can agree on are real gaps that we will do something about. 'Cause I kind of agree, and sir. Villum Christensen indicated in what he said that it was the position of the Liberal Alliance that if something was here that was like delaying some things, the Liberal Alliance did not think it was a problem, because it had to be fair enough that it took the time it took to bring the private landowners. I see that differently, and in the Enhedslisten we see it differently. We want to solve that challenge. These are just the words I want to say here at the first reading of this motion for a resolution. We look forward to further work on the issue and then we will see if we can resolve it satisfactorily. If so, this would not be the first time, when we talk about the water sector, that it is both complex and complicated to describe not so much the problems and challenges we face, because it is possible to do so, but to find solutions that are satisfactory. So, with these words, I shall leave this motion for a resolution to the committee, I hope, a substantive and serious debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327115343	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327115410	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be held on Tuesday, 7 April 2015. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr President. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327115425	Thank you very much. The question we have raised is as follows: what can the Minister say about the use of volunteers by municipalities and regions, including to what extent municipalities and regions themselves recruit and organise volunteers, to what extent it is done through agreements with voluntary organisations, to what extent volunteers replace trained staff, and what municipalities and regions do to prevent this from happening? Let me first say a little about what the question is not about. It is not about whether it is good or not good that very many people want to make voluntary efforts in a wide range of areas of society. It's not just good, it's very good. It is a health sign in a society that so many people would like to contribute volunteer work with everything from making coffee in the assembly house, being a sports coach, visiting friends for older people or helping to integrate refugees. Everyone agrees that this is a good thing and that is not what we want to discuss here today. The question has been raised because there is also a reverse of the medal. There is a great deal of evidence that the municipalities in particular use volunteers very offensively. They advertise even after volunteers to solve a wide range of tasks, which it is the responsibility of the public authorities to solve. A whole new language has been devised for co-creation to give ideological reverbs to this exercise. This is of concern to employees that volunteers are being used to fill the gaps after the many cuts that have taken place over the past 5-6 years in a number of welfare areas. That is to say, it is a concern that volunteers displace ordinary employees. This should give us cause for reflection, because, to the extent that it does, it is to the detriment of all parties, for the volunteers themselves, for the citizens to be helped, for the public employees and for the quality of the service that the public sector has to provide, which I will elaborate on later in my rapporteur's speech. That is why we have wanted an open-minded debate on the way the municipalities use volunteers, so I am really curious about how the other parties, and not least the minister, will accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327115636	Thank you. Then it is the Minister who has the opportunity to answer the question, so I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327115649	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Enhedslisten and Mr. Finn Sørensen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM (88) 573 final - Doc. The government is deeply concerned about voluntaryness and the involvement of citizens' resources in welfare solutions. Active fellow citizens who take responsibility and exert themselves in making a difference to others are a huge force for our society. It increases cohesion and makes the community's tasks easier to carry out. It's modern welfare. Modern welfare acts among other things. supporting the development of active citizenship and ensuring interaction between active citizens, civil society organisations and the public sector. Modern welfare is not only created by the logic of the public sector, but by a strong community, and therefore I do not share the premise contained in the question that volunteers are crowding out public employees with their contribution to welfare solutions. The volunteers are supplementing. That this is the case can be seen in a member survey published by the FOA in March. Three-quarters of the members of the dietary and service sectors and the social and health sector here answer that they would be able to solve the core tasks of the workplace without the help of volunteers. Then there is a fraction, one in ten, that does not mean it, but nevertheless the vast majority, three quarters, think so. The same study also shows that cooperation between FOA members and volunteers works well, so I would strongly warn against talking up and making it a problem, because one in three Danes is involved in volunteering, most in sport, culture and leisure, but many also in the social, health, education and integration fields. The last thing I actually experienced last year when I visited Samsø Municipality. Here the municipality, the owners of a closed high school, the Red Cross and active islanders have established an asylum centre in record time. It started with a citizens' meeting where there was great popular support for the idea, and already the next day the first truck with fixtures to the center rolled in, and almost a week later the first asylum seekers came to the island. When I visited the center, I met grateful refugees and engaged Red Cross workers and a mayor and a group of volunteers who took responsibility in a difficult situation and who had heard of the problems and thought: We have room, and we have people who can lift the tasks; we can help, so we do. If it were not for the voluntary efforts of the many Samsinger, that center would not have become anything and could not have been established so quickly. The voluntary effort is first and foremost meaningful for the individual volunteers in the asylum centre, who provide education, care, excursions and cabins, but also for the refugees who benefit from the help, association and commitment of the volunteers. It promotes integration and deserves great recognition. In addition to supplementing welfare, good voluntary forces also help to develop welfare in Denmark. Volunteers, for example, can help to find new and innovative solutions to common challenges, and they can often reach people and places where the public sector has difficulty reaching out. Among other things, it can be done. be in the social field when young volunteers help to break the isolation or insecurity of mentally vulnerable young people, as is the case in the organization headspace, a nationwide voluntary offer with help to young people. The voluntary effort in Denmark is thus both an important addition to the public sector in contact with and between people, but also an evolving fact in relation to the welfare solutions we know. Denmark would be a poorer place without the many volunteers. Therefore, it is also quite natural that municipalities and regions actively support and cooperate with voluntary forces, both in terms of the efforts of individuals and individuals together. That is why I do not see any need to limit municipalities and regions in their use of volunteers, as long as this is done in full respect of the fact that voluntary action is precisely voluntary and does not replace the responsibility of the public sector. Volunteering and the involvement of citizens' resources go as a thread through several government reforms and initiatives in the integration project • All must contribute with strengthened citizenship and the involvement of voluntary forces to carry out the important integration task; in the health reform with increased involvement of patients and relatives; in the psychiatry area, where former psychiatry users will in future be included as a resource in the concrete treatment services, initially on an experimental basis; in the work on the government's social 2020 goals, where voluntary organisations have contributed with knowledge of effective interventions; and in the cash assistance reform, where funds are allocated to experiments with voluntary mentors as part of the overall effort. A major obstacle to the involvement of volunteers is the charter for interaction between the voluntary world and the public. In 2013, the government took the initiative to bring together a circle of trade unions, federations, organisations and councils and municipalities and regions to renew the charter for interaction between the voluntary world and the public. It was published in July 2013 and is intended to help further develop the voluntary world in interaction with the public sector. The Charter stresses that the further development and modernisation of the welfare society is a joint task with civil society as a natural part. The principle of public service involvement of citizens' resources is reflected in the partnership on modernisation. Here it is important that volunteers experience that cooperation with the public sector is worth investing in and exerting energy. From the government's point of view, we are constantly working to clarify and remove barriers to the dissemination of voluntary efforts. For it must be easy to be voluntary, both when it takes place jointly and in cooperation with the public. Last October, the government presented a catalogue of ten concrete initiatives which remove the rules and barriers that stand in the way of voluntary action and eight of the ten initiatives have already been implemented. We have among other things. canceled the mandatory requirement for a hygiene course, so volunteers in, for example, a bedroom can now help cook for the homeless. We have removed demands for workplace assessment for volunteers, which was seen particularly in smaller associations as bureaucratic. We have made it easier to obtain compulsory child certificates by means of a digital solution. We have raised the number of hours that benefit recipients can work voluntarily without being offset from 4 to 15 hours. As a result, benefit recipients will be even more able to make a voluntary effort and become part of the community that can be among volunteers in a football club or in a place. We have not changed the availability obligation, so I think there is the right balance between employment and social considerations, because I think it is important that we do not exclude citizens from the voluntary community. As you know, in the context of the examination of the draft law amending the law on unemployment insurance, the parties also discussed the extent to which voluntary workers are covered by liability and accident insurance if the accident should be the victim of the voluntary. This fact is now being considered, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior has decided to examine whether the municipality must insure volunteers, and this happens after the State administration has decided that it is not legal. It is important that we get a closer look at the issue of municipalities' insurance of volunteers, and this demonstrates the government's strong focus on ensuring a good framework for volunteering in Denmark. Therefore, I would like to recommend that Parliament express its full support for the cooperation between the voluntary and the public sector, that work continues to clarify and remove barriers to the spread of voluntary action, and that we strengthen the involvement of civil society, which contributes to the achievement of the tasks of a community with better results, rather than seeking to impose new restrictions on voluntary action.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327120457	Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, Mr. Finn Sørensen, opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327120516	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. Now that is not an answer to what I have asked, because so far I have not come up with any proposals to put up barriers for the cooperation of volunteers or municipalities with them. We clearly disagree very much on what reality looks like, so I will try to draw a slightly different picture of it from what the Minister of the Interior has. It is the case that many municipalities announce offensively to hire volunteers. This is done in the form of special websites with volunteer job listings, yes, there is even an entire job portal.That's the word you use that is targeted volunteers, and here is a typical example from a municipal website. Under the heading "Become a volunteer in Horsens Kommune" it could also be all sorts of other municipalities, for these are about the same wordings: Do you want to be a part of the pack? Several volunteers are always very welcome. It can, for example, be done. be voluntary at activity centres, visitor friend at a care centre, IT counsellor at the local library or elderly data room, tour companions for adults with disabilities, club helper for young people with special needs, café volunteer at the place of mentally ill, helper at the place of socially vulnerable, initiate in self-help groups, volunteer in schools and kindergartens, volunteer for cultural events. When it comes to several of these tasks, the warning lights should shine, for people with special needs, mentally suffering, etc. Clearly, a trained staff is required. The use of volunteers is also speeding up in the care of the elderly. After the municipalities have cut sharply the number of permanent employees, every other municipality has set up their own volunteer corps, which they use to carry out tasks in the area of the elderly. This is shown by a 2013 Gallup Survey among more than two thirds of the country's municipalities. It also shows that 80%. of the municipal senior managers plan to involve even more volunteers in the resolution of tasks in the area of older people than the previous year. It is no wonder that the employees are worried, and indeed the rest of us should be. In 2013, the FOA conducted a survey of 559 employees in nursing homes and nursing centres. Here, one in three responds to the fact that there are tasks at their workplace which were previously carried out by employees but which have been taken over by volunteers in the last year. A municipality has gone as far as closing an activity centre for the elderly, all 23 employees have been fired, and it will then be up to the elderly themselves and voluntary forces to continue the activities they want to keep. What, then, is the problem with volunteers taking over the work of permanent workers? That is that it is wrong to all parties. This is wrong with the citizens who need help, because they are entitled to have sufficient trained staff, so that help has the quality that we all want. This is wrong with the volunteers because it can bring them into difficult situations that they are not trained to tackle at all and where they might cause harm to the citizen or to themselves. Let me give you the example of a volunteer being assigned to accompany a demented person; then you can imagine for yourself what that might lead to. This is also wrong with our public servants. They have less and less time for the human things in the work, the soft things they do and the care they take care of more than before. This is, of course, good for the volunteers, and in many cases it is probably good for the residents too, but it is devastating for the job satisfaction and the working environment that must be with the public employees, because it just means that jobs that are already very demanding become even more grueling because everything, the job and working hours are filled with what you could call the hard tasks. It's no wonder we're seeing this development. The municipalities are held by the Minister of Finance and by all other parties here in the Folketing, who think tax relief is more important than welfare. It forces the municipalities to cut back, and then it is extremely tempting to get some free labour. That is why it is not so easy to get rid of it, especially when the government and consensus in the municipalities have created a whole ideology about what is, after all, about using words such as co-creation and other plus words, which are in themselves positive, but where, if you scrub a little on the surface, maybe another picture comes out. What can we do, then, as a Parliament to counteract it? Firstly, we can recommend the municipalities to use the guidelines agreed in the Voluntary Forum between a number of voluntary organisations and the trade union movement. The core of these guidelines and recommendations is that when municipalities need volunteers, they should not hire themselves, so this should be done in cooperation with the voluntary organisations. In this way, there will be the necessary corporate income tax between the municipalities and the volunteers. The volunteers will have an organization to rely on to guide them on the challenges they may face and to guide them in how the volunteer, if so to speak, learns to stay on the right side of the line between what is work and what is voluntary care. We obviously disagree very much on what reality looks like, but then let us do what we in the Enhedslisten propose in our proposal for adoption: let us arrange a proper study so that we can get it out of the open and see if it is Enhedslisten that paints the damn on the wall or whether it is all as rosy as the minister thinks it is and so that we and the municipalities have a common basis to discuss it, including the voluntary organisations. So Enhedslisten makes the following proposals for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that many citizens are volunteering in a wide range of areas, which is of great benefit to society and to the people involved. The Danish Parliament notes that the municipalities themselves advertise to a large extent after volunteers to participate in the solution of a wide range of tasks for which the municipalities themselves are responsible. Parliament notes that this could lead to the displacement of ordinary jobs and that the boundaries between the tasks and responsibilities of volunteers and employees would be unclear to the detriment of the volunteers, the citizens to be helped and the quality of the public service. Parliament calls on the government to conduct an investigation into the use of volunteers by the authorities as soon as possible. The survey will be carried out in cooperation with municipalities, regions and voluntary organisations. • V 37).
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121144	Thank you. The read-out proposal will, as I said, be put to the vote on Tuesday, 7 April 2015. I now give the floor to the first rapporteur. It's sir. Finn Thranum on the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121159	Thank you for the floor, sir. President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten, who has raised this question debate on the use of volunteers by municipalities and regions. This is an important issue which also concerns the Left. Voluntary Denmark is an important part of the foundation on which our democracy is built. Whether as a coach in a football club, as a volunteer in the small local cinema or as a visiting friend in an elderly centre, Denmark benefits from the fact that hundreds of thousands of Danes are taking part in the voluntary efforts across the country. The effort is important, and volunteering has been included in the last many government foundations since the turn of the millennium. This shows that we agree politically across the board that voluntary work is something that needs to be disseminated, supported and encouraged. Having said that, I would like to say that the voluntary world and the public have different strengths and objectives. There must and should be a separation between voluntary helpers and paid professionals in municipalities and regions. The two must be kept separated as far as possible so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where the public sector merges with voluntary action to such an extent that the public sector becomes dependent on aid. On the other hand, volunteers must be seen as a welcome and important complement to the efforts of our skilled professionals on a daily basis in regions and municipalities. In other words, it is important that volunteers do not take over from SOSUs, educators or health professionals. For those people, of course, have a number of competences for which they have been trained and which must provide the basic foundation for proper and decent care. No, where voluntary action really comes to its right, there is where human resources are at the heart. It is dying who needs a hand and a conversation in the last difficult time, lonely elderly people who need a visiting friend or someone to talk to, or children and young people who need a stable adult contact in their perhaps turbulent everyday life. This is where volunteering is truly indispensable. It is precisely this that underlines the importance of making it easier and less difficult if you want to become part of the large group of Danes who are making a voluntary effort. Today, the way to become a volunteer is often tricky and long when it comes to passing through the bureaucracy mill, and we have seen several examples of people who have got caught up in the rules when they have wanted to participate with good intentions in civil society's efforts. Those barriers muddle things unnecessarily, and therefore there must be a clear call from the Left that we should continue to clarify and remove barriers to the spread of voluntary action on an ongoing basis. On the basis of this, I must therefore inform you that the Left and the Conservatives, who are prevented from being present in the Chamber, can support the proposal for adoption made on behalf of the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative, which reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses full support for cooperation between the voluntary sector and the public in modernising the welfare society. Parliament calls on the government to continue to clarify and remove barriers to the spread of voluntary action. Strengthened involvement of civil society contributes to the achievement of tasks in a community with citizens, with better results. • V 34). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121623	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121630	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for, I think, a balanced speech. It was so little at the end of the day with the proposal for adoption, but let it be. In fact, I think that the rapporteur, unlike the Minister, stressed that it is important that we have this distinction between the activities and tasks of the volunteers and public responsibility. I think that was some good wording. I fully agree with the examples mentioned by the rapporteur on voluntary work. So my question to the rapporteur is: why is it that we are in favour of a proposal for adoption that does not look at that side of the matter at all, and what are the rapporteur's proposals on how we can ensure that we do so in a situation where it is quite clear that the volume of voluntary work is increasing, and it is also documented by reports that the government itself has dealt with the fact that we have the very clear division of labour between the volunteers and the employees, which the rapporteur actually described so well?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121739	Thank you for the question. After all, we have urged the Minister to come and try to clarify and clarify both the barriers and the way in which voluntary efforts are made. Here it is natural that you might like to have some lines lined up for how the separation should be. I do not see the threats, or what to say, the issues quite as strongly as the rapporteur here outlines. I really think it is working very well today. I think that out there in society you naturally have a fine balance between the use of professionals and the use of volunteers. So I think, with the proposal for adoption that we have put forward here from all parties except the Enhedslisten, that it is a very good proposal to just put a little more emphasis on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121845	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121846	The proposal for adoption on which the rapporteur is involved is simply about removing barriers. There is not the slightest slight concern or attempt to describe that there may also be another side to this increased use of volunteers, namely, as the rapporteur himself said, the importance of not getting the boundaries between what is the volunteer's task in goose eyes and what is the employee's job without goose eyes. This is important and I think it was a positive speech from the rapporteur. I just can't reflect it in the action. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what exactly do we know about how this is going on, in addition to the fact that we can see that more and more municipalities are using more and more volunteers, while at the same time, in all the core welfare areas, there are cuts in the number of employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327121939	However, as I said before to the questioner, I do not see the issue as strongly as the questioner. I recognise that there may be some barriers or some transitions where it may be difficult sometimes to assess what is for the professional and what is for the volunteer. But the questioner has now had the opportunity to express his scepticism about it, and the Minister has also heard this, so I wonder whether it might be part of some consideration or some answer when it comes to this. That's what I'm thinking. But that does not change the fact that we have made this joint proposal for adoption, all the other parties except the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122016	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122024	Thank you. It is actually on behalf of the Socialist Communist rapporteur, Simon Kollerup, that I am standing here, but I am happy to take part in the debate on a subject which I think is both very important and very relevant. So thank you also to Enhedslisten for raising the question that focuses on volunteering. There is an old saying that when two Danes meet, they shake hands; when three Danes meet, they form an association. And there's probably something about it. In any case, one in three Danes is engaged in volunteering. Association life is deep in our culture. It provides the framework for how we organise our labour market, how we use our leisure time and how we influence decisions in society, from school boards to political parties. In the social field, voluntary work is also strongly anchored. It can be like a visiting friend, a companion or someone who reads aloud to the elderly at the care centre. On the social democratic side, we appreciate the enormous efforts made by thousands of Danes daily in volunteering. We appreciate that there are some who are making an unselfish effort for the citizens they help and for the community. I think it is important to make it clear that a well-functioning welfare society requires not only a strong private and public sector, but also a strong and committed voluntary sector. There is no doubt that the public sector has the main responsibility for helping, for example. marginalised children, young people and adults, but the voluntary sector is an important complement because volunteering can contribute something special. Voluntary work can contribute a different kind of trust and a different kind of contact between people. And that is precisely why voluntary contributions with networks for vulnerable citizens can be crucial in maintaining positive developments away from drug abuse or homelessness or loneliness. Volunteering thus contributes with important value in Danish society, and this is also why the government has focused on making voluntary work easier. Last year we presented the plan to be more easily voluntary, as the Minister also mentioned, containing ten concrete initiatives that remove barriers for volunteers. The eight of the ten have been implemented and the Minister has mentioned them, so I shall spare Members that. So we have taken some important steps. We are not in the end, and we will also continue to work to remove barriers to voluntary work. Having said that, I agree that the question has been raised against the background of concern that volunteers should be replaced. It is not a concern I share, but I would like to make it clear: voluntary work should not replace, but complement the work of skilled staff in municipalities and regions. As the Minister also pointed out in his speech, the study shows that voluntary work on FOA workplaces is not the case either, that volunteers replace skilled workers. In the study, three out of four members of FOA's dietary and service sector and social and health sector answer that they will be able to solve the core task of the workplace without the help of volunteers. The same study also shows that cooperation between the voluntary and FOA members is working well. It's nice that it can work in everyday life, and that gives the study a very good picture of it. That is why I also think it is important to emphasise that in 2013 the government took the initiative for a new charter for precisely the interaction between the voluntary world and the public. The Charter was formulated by a broad working group with participants from a number of ministries, from voluntary associations, from KL, Danish Regions, FTF and LO. I myself took part in the work as Minister of Health, and it was a really good process and also a very good product. The voluntary charter that was created contains visions and principles for the interaction between the voluntary world and the public. A concrete example of rules and cooperation agreements between volunteers and public sector employees can also be mentioned. The agreement • Game rules 2.0 • concluded by FOA, HK municipal, Social Pedagogues, Danish Nursing Council and the Danish Social Advisor Association and a number of voluntary associations is an agreement which precisely sets out a number of principles for cooperation between voluntary association life and employees. This is just one example of the fact that at many different levels the framework for good cooperation between the voluntary world and the public sector has been secured and that is good. With those words, I can also say that the Socialists support the text of the motion for a resolution which was just read out by the rapporteur of the Left. I thank the Enhedslisten again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122443	Sir. Finn Sørensen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122445	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur cannot see either that there are any problems with this increased use of volunteers or have I misunderstood anything? When you look at the examples I mentioned about how the municipalities advertise and what they advertise after, should perhaps there still be a tiny concern that reality may look a little different? As far as the reality is concerned, I have referred to a FOA study which shows something else, namely that the employees have been asked directly whether they are experiencing that their tasks are therefore the tasks that they themselves have previously carried out today are being carried out by volunteers, and so there is a great deal that does. Well, then, we can hit each other in the head with those investigations. I believe that there are many other examples to support my perception of reality, namely that there are grounds for some concern. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: was it not a good idea for us to have a proper study carried out which highlighted, if I may say so, both sides of this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122553	I can hear the logic of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, which almost makes me want to ask you back, and I should rather do so the first time I have the floor, so that Enhedslisten's rapporteur can reply: will the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also conclude that if there are more volunteers and if a higher percentage of the volunteers we see in our society are volunteers within, for example. care for the elderly, so is that bad, so does it mean less welfare? In other words, there is some inherent determinism in the equation put forward by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, which I do not agree with, and that is why I do not think we should throw a lot of resources and gunpowder and effort after such a very numerical analysis of what is happening in our welfare society. I think it will be limited what we get out of it. On the contrary, I would like to say that I think the work we have done in drawing up a charter in which everyone around the table has been seated is important. And it's important to yell at the guard in the rifle. I am counting on local older people's councils and others to do so if they see that volunteers go in and replace skilled staff where skilled staff are needed. But my experience, when I've been around the whole country as I've been for the last six months and visited care centres, is that so much life value, so much joy, much more than you would find in nursing centers in the past, there are volunteers from visiting dogs and visiting friends to awakemen and awake wives who sit and make sure that no one dies alone in this country. It is a huge value, and it helps to complement the welfare and care provided by municipal and public welfare workers, but in many places it actually also helps to develop and ensure that you are challenged on how to do things and what it is that is most important and central. I would very much like us to have the positive approach to the many volunteers who are making a huge effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122726	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122728	Thank you. This will then try to suggest that Enhedslisten does not have a positive approach to volunteering. It is just a form of what to say, such a bit of cozy Friday drilling, if we take it that way, and at worst it is such a form of demagogy that tries to portray the point of view of the interlocutor as something other than what it actually is. I think it's a little a waste of time. I can only understand and have to say that the rapporteur cannot see that there are any problems. There is not much to do about that, and it is difficult to have a debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122801	Well, I'm sorry if I've heard Enhedslisten's rapporteur wrong. I have just heard little more than a very great concern about what it means that there are volunteers in our welfare societies. I am glad that this is not the case, so that we in the Danish Parliament, if we cannot agree on a text for adoption, can at least agree on the part that is about giving support to the volunteers who are making a huge effort out there. It is clear, and I made it very clear in my speech, that this must be a supplement. It must be a question of finding ways of using volunteers to develop and challenge the way in which welfare, service and care are provided. We must, of course, keep an eye on that, but I do not recognize the very gloomy picture that is being drawn by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122844	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327122851	Thank you. Now Mr. Finn Sørensen is actually saying that this should not be a tribute to all the volunteers, and I really liked that, Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen to say. But now the previous rapporteurs have also praised all the volunteers, and I should like to continue, even if Mr. Finn Sørensen thought we should skip it because we all agreed that doing a volunteer job is really positive. When I started as a local politician in Pandrup Municipality, I also got the honour to become the municipality's representative on the board of directors at the local care center in the city where I live. In that care center we had a circle of friends, consisting of both relatives and other volunteers, who had no family ties with the residents who lived at the care center. The circle of friends was incredibly important for the care centre in terms of supplementing the professional staff not to complement the professional expertise in relation to the tasks they had, but to be helpful with evenings of cozyness, be helpful when there were services at the care center, and at all be helpful if you were going out for an extra walk. Now the debate has been raised at the request of the Enhedslisten with the question here today, and there is also a certain fear that municipalities are now using volunteers to fire and replace the professional staff. I hope that is not the case, and I must admit that I also went into this debate with the assumption that this was not the case. But I must also admit that I was a little frightened by the list that Mr. Finn Sørensen read from; I think it was from Horsen's Commune. If it is the case that a municipality is looking for volunteers such as: Helpers to the mentally ill, I think there's something you need to look at. I also believe that Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned that there were 50 municipalities actively seeking volunteers to replace fired staff. I hope that is not the case either. Or maybe it wasn't 50, I think it was about half, sir. Finn Sørensen said. At least it is not the municipalities I know who do it that way. There are a great many municipalities and regions that are developing a voluntary strategy, and I think we should also support that from in here. There are a lot of volunteers doing a good job. And, of course, they should not go in and take over the core tasks of the professional staff, but be a complement, in other words, to do something better. In the Danish People's Party we think it is important to have volunteers. As I have said, it is not in order for them to solve tasks that the professional staff have to solve, but in order for them to be complementary, to be able to support, to give a helping hand, to sit and also occasionally comfort. Whether we are talking about schools or older centres, I think we will see that there will be more volunteers in the future. Then the question is how to organise them and whether the municipalities themselves should even announce after the volunteers. I have to admit that I think we need to take up a debate. I have another proposal, then, in addition to the proposals for adoption that have been put forward here today: would it be possible to suggest that in here we should have a hearing, as we call it in here, or perhaps a thematic meeting or a theme day, as we might call it instead, where we bring in these different players and where we will get the information on what is up and down and the facts as to what they do in municipalities and regions, and ask what the trade unions think, including, of course, the FOA, which has been involved in this work and probably also want to contribute to such a thematic meeting, such a theme day? In any case, this must be the proposal of the Danish People's Party for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123235	Sir. Finn Sørensen again has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123238	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a balanced approach to the problem. I can mention that the examples I listed from Horsens Kommune's website on the tasks announced after volunteers to solve jobs are called voluntary jobs, since it is almost already in the language of the community. I can recommend the rapporteur himself to go in and google and look at the websites of the various municipalities, so it was not to hang Horsens Municipality out, it was just a striking example. One cannot help but fall over them, so many are on the side of an offensive strategy on the part of the municipalities. I can also confirm, and this is evident from a study by the Centre for Voluntary Social Work, which is under the authority, that there is a very strong growth in the proportion of municipalities that hire volunteers themselves, if I may be so free to use that word. That is 57%, and it is a sharp increase from 2010 to 2012. So it's worth looking at. So I would just like to sign for the rapporteur's idea that we could try to make a theme day. If you cannot get through with an investigation, it might be a good idea to hold a hearing or a theme day where we bring in the parties involved, because I think we just have to see that it is not possible to take the FOA as an income for there to be no problems here. Exactly. I don't think you have to earn money. So I just want to thank you for a nuanced approach to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123407	Thanks for the words. Then I can say back that I will now go home and read it, as Mr. Finn Sørensen has informed about the different municipalities and their way of setting up voluntary so-called jobs. I think we should have looked into that a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123424	Thank you. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123431	Thank you for the floor. It is incredibly positive when one in three Danes contributes as a volunteer to society, and the figure is actually unchanged over the last 10 years. It shows an SFI survey published in 2014. About half of the volunteers, this study shows, are active in the field of culture, leisure and sport. These are very different tasks that range from setting up a scene in a theater association, buying flour for the children's snob at the Scout Club, and washing football jerseys after Sunday's game. Recently, a lot of volunteers throughout the country have also come to asylum centres and municipalities to help welcome the many refugees with warm outerwear, toys, help for shopping and help to learn the Danish language. Thank you so much! You're making a huge effort. It's invaluable. I think we should be happy about that. The Radical Left welcomes all the help that volunteers contribute to society. This is why, as has already been mentioned, the government presented a catalogue of ten concrete actions in October 2014. One of them is, as the Minister also mentioned, for example. to remove the requirement for training in food hygiene for volunteers. Volunteering is driven by a sincere and personal interest in helping wherever you want and where you can. In fact, I think that this sincerity is something that those who get the help are also feeling. I believe that as a volunteer you can contribute something other than what the employee can do, and thus volunteering is a good addition to the very professional and competent help provided by employees in municipalities and regions. In order to come a little closer to answering what is the question put by Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Finn Sørensen, namely: Is there a limit to what volunteers can and must take on? I would say that yes, it is there, although it changes all the time. After all, the principles of what volunteers can take on are enshrined, as previously referred to, in the agreement called Game Rules 2.0. It is an agreement between volunteers and employees in the public sector, among others. A number of trade unions are co-signators. Just one example of one of the principles that has been agreed is that volunteers cannot take responsibility for the tasks laid down in the legislation. At the same time, a number of municipalities have decided on their own local action plans for cooperation with volunteers, which are based on the needs and special conditions of each municipality. And that's the way it's supposed to be. In one of the most recent studies from the FOA from March 2015, the assessment from FOA's own members is such that three out of four say that volunteering is actually something that improves citizens' everyday lives to a very large extent. It is also positive that the people who work alongside the volunteers can see that the voluntary work that is being done provides a great deal of help to the citizen. In relation to the question of whether the volunteers solve tasks which should have been solved by the employees, it is in the same survey every 10 people who believe that the core tasks of the workplace could not have been solved without volunteers. Against this background, the Radical Left believes that we should not do more at Christiansborg than to lay down additional rules for voluntary work or carry out new studies in this area, but rather rather let it grow from scratch, be shaped in the municipalities and let it happen in cooperation with the employees and organisations locally. We can therefore also endorse the proposal for adoption which has previously been read out by the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, Mr Seligman. Finn Thranum. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123830	A brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123832	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that he also does not see that there are any problems worth examining. I have to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur agree that there may be a danger in the fact that the municipalities themselves are hiring volunteers to such an increasing extent? And what is the rapporteur's view of the examples I have mentioned from this advert about what kind of job posting is being used? Will the rapporteur recognise that there may be a problem worth looking at here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327123904	Well, I kind of share sir. Finn Sørensen's observation and concern about the fact that we must be careful that borders do not move, but I think we must also be aware that borders are constantly moving because society is constantly moving. If you look at the figures, also in the SFI statement, which shows something about what volunteers have been working on here in the last 10 years, you can see that the number of volunteers has not actually increased. Then you can look at the study and see that there is no indication either that the volunteers have then started to carry out more tasks, which are tasks of authority and tasks within the relevant legislation in the area where they are now volunteers. I think it is reasonable that this agreement, which I also referred to, has been drawn up on the rules of the game, on which a large number of trade unions have been involved and which, of course, clarify, there is a limit to what volunteers should be working with. And, of course, the most important thing is that, as I said before, we do not have to work on tasks and take responsibility for something that is within the scope of current legislation. So I share the rapporteur's observations and concerns about this, but I do not think there is any indication that there is, if I may say so, a problem of such magnitude that an investigation should be undertaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124018	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124020	Thank you for your answer. I can then just make the same recommendation to the rapporteur that I made to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: try to go home and look at the local authorities' websites; try to take them from one end and see how they deal with this issue of volunteers. And then maybe you should think about it again, because it could be that there was some reason to look at the other side of the medal that we otherwise agree we should be happy about. So it is just a call to the rapporteur. But then I have one question at the end. One thing is that you have made a good deal, but another is how it is implemented. And if we agree that there can be
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124119	It is, of course, such a rather hypothetical question, because we do not quite know what is happening, as the rapporteur has said. I want to take the call home and look at it I have already looked at my own municipality's website, and of course I also know what is going on of volunteering there. But, of course, I'll take that with me. I also think it is good that FOA and other trade unions are constantly asking about these things and investigating them. But I do not think that the study referred to several times shows that there should be any alarming problem, and that is why I do not think there is any basis for a major study.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124155	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge who speaks for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124204	Thank you. As municipalities and regions streamline and, unfortunately, in some cases also reduce core welfare in the areas of children, young people and the elderly in particular, they are becoming increasingly dependent on the help available from volunteers at municipal and regional institutions. It is typically at care and activity centres for the elderly, but we also experience it in the school and library field and even in social psychiatry. It's different how this type of volunteering is organized. In some places the volunteers are organized in an association that cooperates with municipal institutions, and elsewhere it is the municipalities themselves that organise the volunteers. In the SF, we are very much in favour of volunteering, both because the volunteers and their organisations can provide the public task solution with elements and an approach to the work, which is not necessarily the traditional professionalism of the professionals, but also because we want to involve civil society in the task solution. It strengthens citizenship and the cohesion of society. However, it is still important for the municipalities to keep their tongues straight because, in line with increasing efficiency requirements and savings, people are at risk of pushing out professional professionals because they become directly dependent on volunteers in the care of e.g. Our elders. This is not acceptable both because we still need more professional hands in, among other things. day-care institutions and in the care of the elderly, but also because volunteers are not covered by the obligation to work, the obligation of loyalty and the obligation of professional secrecy pursuant to Article 27 of the Administrative Act. This means that both volunteers and citizens in need of help can be brought into completely impossible situations, but also that we do not benefit from the very special thing that volunteers can bring to social work or children and young people in day care institutions and schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124358	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Now Mr. Finn Sørensen pressed, and then he gets a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124407	Thank you. Thank you for the speeches made by the rapporteurs, who also recognise that there is something we need to keep an eye on. Then I would like to ask a little more specifically what has to do with my main business here, which is to discuss the use by the municipalities of the volunteers and the advantages and disadvantages inherent in it. In my rapporteur's speech, I have mentioned a proposal which is not my own. This is one for which the Voluntary Forum has been fighting for a long time and which they could not get into this charter that the Minister is referring to. It is the idea that municipalities should, as a general rule, organise voluntary work in cooperation with voluntary organisations, so that the municipality itself is not the employer. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks of that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124510	The rapporteur thinks this is a good proposal. In fact, I believe that this was an element of the resolution we tabled in the last session, so we look at it very positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124521	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124523	We do the same thing from Enhedslisten's side. So the question is: how do we proceed with that discussion? In fact, I have included this proposal in the proposal for adoption tabled by the Enhedslisten precisely to draw attention to it. Please note that there is no question of us entering and making a change of law in the Service Act or anything else. We can start with paragraph 1 by examining what the situation really is with regard to the abuse and non-abuse of volunteers by municipalities, and paragraph 2 can we ask whether it would not be a good idea here on the part of the Folketing to emphasise as a small cautious, innocent recommendation that is not legally binding, that municipalities should organise voluntary work in cooperation with voluntary organisations, because it provides the arm's length of work between municipalities and voluntary work, which we in the Enhedslisten believe is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124618	I have to say, sir, it looks good. Finn Sørensen, being very modest, and yet it's kind of boring. I am here with the two proposals for adoption, and I actually think they are both very fine and, if not, because there are so many restrictions on how long the proposals for adoption must be, then they could actually be written together, because they do not contradict each other in my view. I think it is an excellent proposal that the Voluntary Forum is making and we would like to be involved in further work on it, and that is also why we made the resolution which we really wanted to have retabled in this session, but perhaps we can achieve it in the next session of the Assembly. In any case, we can definitely support the idea that Enhedslisten thinks we should have a further work on this border migration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124700	So I thank the SF rapporteur and give the floor to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327124709	Volunteering is good. It helps people who need help to get it from other people who are not necessarily paid by the public to provide it. But Enhedslisten is very concerned about whether the volunteering replaces it, that people are employed at the municipality with agreement and membership of a union and all that that Enhedslisten cares so much about. I would like to take a very specific look at the small town in South Jutland, which is called Agerskov, where I come from. I was down there recently for my grandmother's 95th birthday at the tavern, and at noon there came four half-old gentlemen to eat at the tavern. They're sitting in the kitchen eating. I don't know what they're paying; I think they're paying 60 kroner. Or something like that. I think there's three courses. This is such a grey area between an inn that makes money cooking, and then actually volunteering against four half-old men living in the local area. At some point, when they round the 80 and may not be able to cook for themselves they are not even now, for they have hardly ever done so they will be given food from the municipality. So maybe they just keep going down to the inn anyway, because they've been doing that for so many years, and why would they change it? It's such a gray area. Does the inn replace some employees in a municipal kitchen who can cook for 80-year-old men? There is also in Agerskov an athletic hall that was built back in the early 1970s with a very high degree of volunteering. They came and volunteered their labor and tractors, etc., to help build that hall. Shouldn't it have been built because it replaced some people with membership in a union that was paid for it? In the same city there is also a voluntary fire brigade. It must be said here that it is a question of replacing something that could have been a municipal task, because in all places in the country other than South Jutland it is a municipal task, but in South Jutland you have voluntary fire protection, and then they do things without public interference. Should they be closed because it is very terrible that they replace something in public? I owe you, sir. Finn Sørensen an answer to that, I think. In general, I find this attempt to draw a very clear line between one and the other very difficult. If you have a kindergarten where there is an elderly pensioner who likes to come for a couple of hours in the afternoon, does this mean that there is a teacher helper who may just be on part-time rather than full-time? Well, maybe it is. Surely we cannot rule that out, because there is the elderly pensioner sitting on the playground with some of the staff of the institution. It's going well, and everybody's happy about it. The same can be imagined in a nursing home, namely that there is also some fusion of the work of volunteers and employees. If there is no problem with it, if you do not see local problems with it, if things work to everyone's satisfaction, why do Christiansborgs have to give very strict guidelines on what must be one and what must be the other? This is not something that we are in favour of in the Liberal Alliance. I understand that in the Enhedslisten, with the background of Enhedslisten's members in various other centralist parties, it seems very terrible if the Folketing does not decide on such things. But we do not have that background and therefore we do not see the same problems as Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125143	Sir. Finn Sørensen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125145	Thank you. We can spend a long time discussing very concrete examples from the corners around the country. I would rather ask the rapporteur's basic position on matters. I understand from the rapporteur that it is a waste of time to be so concerned about whether employees or volunteers carry out the tasks, and also whether these employees have an agreement, and also whether they have proper training. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's basic position: does the rapporteur really think that it is quite fine if volunteers replace public servants?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125222	My basic view is that I am absolutely convinced that it can be found out locally. I do not think there will be any local volunteers in charge of the very physical care of, for example. elderly in a nursing home. I do not think there is any need for me in here from the speaking chair of the Folketing to say that you should not get volunteers to do that. I think they can find out for themselves that it will be employees who will do it. But should there be some form of understanding locally anyway, which in the particular situation makes it possible to do so, think if someone has been employed at the nursing home for 40 years and has retired and wants to go around as a volunteer a few hours a week afterwards, it is not I who should tell them that they should not. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen: Finn Sørensen, that the voluntary fire brigade in South Jutland must be closed because they replace that there are some public firemen who can do work instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125330	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125332	Now I am asking questions here and I will not spend my short time answering the rapporteur's questions to me. The rapporteur had the opportunity to do so when I was on the floor. I'm supposed to try to conclude. Here we are discussing our positions on matters. What I asked the rapporteur was: does the rapporteur basically think that it is okay for volunteers to take over the duties of public servants? I can't get another impression. It can be said that the rapporteur's and his party's perception of what is going to happen to the public sector also rhymes very well, so I think that the rapporteur should, if I may say so, take a direct look at the question: is this a good idea and is the rapporteur satisfied that volunteers are taking over the tasks of public employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125423	I can just repeat once again what I have already answered Mr. Finn Sørensen. That's what Mr. Finn Sørensen claims he hasn't been answered, I answered. I said that I do not think that there will be local volunteers, for example. to provide personal care for the elderly in a nursing home. If, however, there are any circumstances which suggest that it is not problematic that a particular volunteer should also assist there in a particular situation, I cannot be the one to say that we absolutely must not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125504	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then I would just like to stress that a brief remark does not need to be a question and an answer to a brief remark does not need to be an answer. There is freedom here in the Folketing to use the speaking time for what you want. Finally, I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327125528	I guess from this platform someone once said that a word is a word, and... well, shall we leave it hanging? And a man is a dishcloth. Yeah, that's how it was, that's right. It was Mrs. Aase Olsen. The President was present, and I was not, but that does not make the comment any less colourful. I think it has been a good debate, and I think it should be a pleasure for the voluntary Denmark that across the Folketing there is recognition and support for the work that is being done and the effort that is being made. I think that what we have not been doing for so long, and perhaps that is not the business of the questioners, is the pleasure that volunteers have in doing the job. It is, of course, characterized by the desire to make a difference to others, but also by the fact that it is something that makes a difference to oneself and contributes to one's own quality of life. That is why I must also say that, having followed the debate here, I still have some difficulty finding out what the errands of the questioners really are, because what I can hear is that it is worrying that there has been a strong increase in the number of municipalities wishing to involve volunteers in the work, and it is only with the introductory remark to the whole question debate that it is not at all a matter of concern for voluntary work as such and it is good and proper that it is a little strange that, on the other hand, one is strongly concerned that the municipalities are increasingly trying to involve volunteers in the task solution. The point on the part of the government, at least, is that this is a development that we have sought to support through cooperation with the organisations, by ensuring clear lines, and we have also taken note of the fact that a set of ground rules has also been drawn up across the relevant organisations and associations, which was also mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur and also by the radically speaking, with agreements between volunteers and employees in the public sector, which, I think, answer in an exemplary way many of the questions, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, has, about what should characterise the cooperation and what it is for some prerequisites that must be present, including that it takes place in a good and ongoing dialogue, and that volunteers, for example, cannot take over the responsibility laid down in the legislation, or carry out the tasks without visitation or registration, that they are not subject to reporting obligations. It is, I think, a clear and clear statement that employees and volunteers have very different obligations and can play very different roles. When you hear the list of tasks, the solution of which Mr. Finn Sørensen is concerned about the fact that, on the contrary, it illustrates very well that there is a major role to play in increasing the quality of the welfare we have for volunteers. I think there's a lot of them, like Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen also mentioned many of those he is worried about on the list from a specific municipality that makes a big difference in the quality experienced for citizens because it is actually a volunteer. The most obvious example is visitor friend. I don't know if that's one of those people who's worried about Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen. But visiting friend is a good example of the fact that most people would really prefer a visiting friend who is there for pleasure and not because it is part of one's work? Where does it really change down the sling, as Mr. Finn Sørensen would like to draw up for us? It is if, for example, you are. I think it's one of the things that worried. Or is it like when I was in Aalborg the other day in a bedroom and experienced how there are volunteers who talk to the homeless or the less well-off who need to go to a place where you can get a free meal. As I understood it, there was almost a queue to be volunteered in such a place. This is fantastic and, by the way, an offer that might not have the same high calibre for the people involved, if not volunteers, who helped to create the welfare quite specifically in the place where employees and volunteers and users interact equally. That is why I also think that there is some doubt as to what kind of support for volunteering is left by the questioners. I believe from an honest heart that I have tried to understand the concern expressed, but I also think that everyone across both my answer and everyone else's • agrees that there is a difference of substance between being voluntary and being employed. Sir. Finn Sørensen talks about how we can dunk each other in the head with different studies. I don't think there's any reason for that. At any rate, I am quite satisfied that according to my papers published on 10 March 2015, FOA has made conclusions that show that there is a very fine cooperation and that the employees are very pleased with that cooperation to a large extent. I shall not take the FOA as an income for any point of view other than simply referring to the solution of the study that has been carried out. Here it is very clear that core tasks can be solved without the help of volunteers. This is highlighted as one of the main conclusions. Volunteers rarely replace temporary workers, is another. Guidelines for the use of volunteers at the workplace take place to a large extent. One eighth does voluntary social work themselves. Perhaps the last thing I would like to dwell on as a presentation to Mr. Finn Sørensen, if he wants to contribute further to the debate, is that one almost gets the impression that Enhedslisten thinks it is unsolidarous if people do volunteer work in welfare areas. At any rate, I think it is illustrative that even within the FOA's own membership, a large proportion of the members, 13%, have done voluntary social work themselves in the last year. I would also like to acknowledge the contribution made by the many members of the FOA who, alongside their hard and important work to promote the welfare of the citizens of Denmark, have a surplus to contribute voluntary social work. It also helps to lift Denmark and make it a better society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130155	Finn Sørensen has. There is a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130200	It's hard to discuss when you create a picture of what, for example. I mean, and then relate to it instead of listening to what has been said. There are other rapporteurs, and I am delighted that they have understood that Enhedslisten's business with this question has not been to throw away the work of the volunteers. I actually spent a great deal of time presenting the question to explain about the great value it has for society and for all of us. So I am glad that others have been able to hear that. As far as studies are concerned, two different things have been asked, as simple as that. And then let us take it on an occasion when there is time to dig into the studies and find out if we can now use them for what we use them for each of them. I would like to put a slightly more specific question to the Minister. I would like to ask the Minister to take a look at the view I put forward in my rapporteur's speech, which is also contained in the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption, namely that the best way to organise the municipalities' use of volunteers is by cooperating with the voluntary organisations so that the municipality does not itself represent the employer of the volunteers. That's a point of view. It is not something that Enhedslisten has made up, it is something that the Voluntary Forum and a large number of others, namely all the organisations that are in the Volunteer Forum, have agreed: that this is the best way to do it. They couldn't get through with that when you had to make this charter. And then I would like the Minister to address the concrete proposal as the best way of organising voluntary work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130342	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130344	First of all, I just have to come back to what Mr. Finn Sørensen himself has put forward arguments along the way. At one point it became so far-vaunted that the volunteers caused the workers to wear down because it made the work harder for them. That's it, sir. Finn Sørensen said. I am just amazed that one might think that people who, because they want to do so, want to make a voluntary effort side by side with the employees and, hopefully, in accordance with the rules of the game that have been set aside, now need to be made to make the job harder for the employees. So I do not think that is in line with reality; at least I do not agree with the point of view. That is also why I perhaps do not entirely agree with the SF's rapporteur that the two proposals for adoption could just be added together, because that, Mr President. Finn Sørensen proposes with the proposal for adoption from the Enhedslisten, is of course a deep concern that when local authorities, as it appears, advertise to a large extent themselves after volunteers, this can lead to the displacement of ordinary jobs and to the confusion of the boundaries between the tasks of volunteers and employees to the detriment of the volunteers and the citizens to be helped and the quality of the public service. It is, of course, a profound scepticism, but we do not share it in the government, and I am glad that it does not seem to be shared in the Folketing either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130457	Then that is the second brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130459	It is true that this is a profound scepticism, not towards volunteers, but towards the use of volunteers by the municipalities. I do not know where the Minister has had his thinking in the time we have discussed this, but if he had been present, he would clearly have heard that this was what Enhedslisten wanted to discuss: the use of volunteers by the municipalities. I would like to repeat my question, because it is something we could relate to, namely how we ensure something that we obviously agree on: that volunteers should not replace public servants. I understand from the Minister that he agrees. So would the Minister not like to take a look at the view of the Voluntary Forum and all the organisations involved, namely that the best way to organise the community's use of volunteers is by working together and through agreements with voluntary organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130551	I would like to reply to that, because it confirms what I said at the outset that Mr. Finn Sørensen is looking for new barriers to volunteering, as opposed to what you are trying to give the impression of. I think it is crucial that we do not deceive ourselves into the Folketing that everything should be governed by the laws and rules here from Christiansborg. What lies is a set of ground rules that have also been agreed with Volunteer Forum, HK Municipal, FOA, Social Pedagogues, Professional Seniors, Danish Nursing Council, Danish Social Advisor Association, Cooperative Congregation Career and other organizations, a set of rules that I think are exemplary in telling how the collaboration should be. Therefore, I do not think there is any reason why the Folketing should further set up barriers with new rules on how civil society contributes to the creation of welfare in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130642	Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 7 April 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130700	The debate is open. The first speaker is Mr. Finn Thranum as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327130730	Thank you, Madam President. As the Left's tax rapporteur cannot be present in the Chamber, I must say on his behalf that the fight against tax havens has become a global focus in recent years. Denmark is actively involved in the fight against tax havens, because it is not fair when citizens and companies cheat on taxes. You have to pay the tax you have to pay, you shouldn't be able to self-serve to lower taxes by moving money into tax havens. Back under the government of the VK, many initiatives were taken. Among other things: the transfer pricing rules were tightened significantly so that companies could not shift profits out of the country by acting internally at artificially high or low prices. At the end of last year, the government presented initiatives to combat tax evasion. In the Left we are part of the agreement in the area of the Minister of Industry, but we chose to be outside the agreement in the field of taxation. That was, I believe, the whole purpose of the negotiation process, because in broad terms we were in agreement with the government's proposals, but we were unable to agree with the end result. The Left agrees with the intention, but we must not override fundamental principles of legal certainty in the same way. The bill here contains a number of different parts. Tax is introduced on the founder of income earned in a trust and certain foreign funds. It must prevent aggressive tax planning. An international circumvention clause is introduced into Danish tax legislation recommended by both the OECD and the EU. This applies to the parent/subsidiary directive, the interest/royalty directive and the merger tax directive. Similarly, the proposal addresses problems related to the digital reporting of tax deficits. A proposal which, when adopted, was criticised for being an administrative burden and not an improvement. It now turns out to be true. Then an error is corrected in the calculation of the weight tax, which has been incorrectly indexed. However, the proposal also contains a provision which has received a great deal of criticism in the consultations, namely the possibility that a binding reply received by the taxpayer from SKAT should not nevertheless be binding in a number of cases. It is a matter of legal certainty that the tax authorities are now given the opportunity to override a binding answer which they themselves have given. As I said, there are elements in the proposal that we in the Left can support, but there are also some that we are critical of, and we will therefore seek to divide the legislative proposal so that we can support the proposals with which we agree. We will continue to work on this during the committee procedure. I have to say that the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal either in its present form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327131101	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327131118	In December last year, the government of SF, Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti gave each other hands to put the fight against tax havens and tax speculation into gear with a new tax havens agreement in the field of taxation. The legislative proposal we are discussing now translates into those parts of the tax havens agreement that require new legislation, and at the same time it also includes some of the measures that we can set in motion at national level to prevent speculators from circumventing the corporate tax directives and double taxation agreements. Specifically, we propose to tax the founder of so-called trusts, that it be possible to disregard a binding response in relation to the value of an asset, and then we want to introduce a circumvention clause into Danish legislation. Then, for the sake of good order, like the rapporteur from the Left, I should like to mention that, in addition to the elements of the tax havens package, the draft law also contains elements of a completely different nature, namely, elements relating to the digital deficit calculation for companies that are being deferred and, on the one hand, to the correction of the rates of weight tax for all passenger cars and caravans. It is not entirely new to us in the area of taxation that we sometimes collect a little for piles. The first element concerning the creation of trusts is something we most know from abroad, but the construction of trusts abroad opens up aggressive tax planning. The construction is used very simplisticly and roughly to save fortunes for the tax authorities, and what we are proposing with the bill is therefore to tax the founder of a trust of the income earned by him in a trust. The special feature of the trust design is that, in certain cases, the founder may dispose of his assets even if the founder has formally renounced the assets. It goes without saying that it can be quite difficult for SKAT both to discover and prove that the founder has retained the disposal of the trust's assets. That is why we propose that the founder be taxed by the income earned in trusts and foreign funds, where it is not an absolute condition of validity that there has been a so-called definitive and effective separation of assets. The founder will be taxed as if access to the assets is still available, even if the assets have been formally renounced. The second element of the draft law is in relation to binding answers. SKAT and the Tax Council have the possibility to provide a binding response on the tax effect of valuation of assets. Such binding responses are often only relevant when assets are transferred between affiliated parties and when moving in and out of the country. There have been examples that the value of an asset has been shown to be significantly higher than that used in the binding reply. In other words, it may be speculated to have binding answers about a low valuation of assets. In order to make this kind of speculation more difficult, we propose that in future the tax authorities should have the opportunity to disregard a binding response to a tax assessment if it subsequently turns out that the value of the asset differs significantly from the fixed value in the binding answer. Will this weaken legal certainty? you can ask. In our view, it will not. After all, the amendment makes it clearer what circumstances might lead to the lapse of an answer. Finally, we want to introduce an international circumvention clause into Danish tax legislation. It will help to combat abuses in cross-border transactions covered by the parent/subsidiary directive or by Danish double taxation agreements. We also want to introduce the circumvention clause adopted at the EU Council in January 2015 as a national circumvention clause in Denmark in relation to the interest/royalty directive and the merger tax directive. Indeed, we want to go further than the agreement with the European Union commits, and we do so by introducing the clause in more areas than the EU agreement requires, because we do not think that there should be any possibility of circumventing any of the three directives or the double taxation agreements for that matter. It is a battle for the common we fight when we fight against tax havens and aggressive tax speculation. When companies or individuals speculate not to pay taxes to the country they should, yes, then all tax-paying citizens and businesses suffer. This is cheating the community for money that could have been spent in schools, hospitals or care for children and the elderly. That is why I can tell you that the Socialists naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327131530	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327131540	As mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, this proposal translates a tax havens package into which the government, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten are included. Since it is an agreement that the Danish People's Party is part of and that we are also happy to be a part of, we naturally support that part. It has to be said, however, that only parts of this tax haven agreement need to be legislated on, and that is what we are dealing with here today, but there are other things in the agreement that do not need any legislative changes. One of the things is... the taxation of trusts founders, which should reduce the possibility of aggressive tax planning, which is a good initiative. There is also something about fair taxation when assets are taken out of the country. Very specifically, as Mrs Astrid Krag also said, it is about binding answers to questions about assets that can be removed. They shall not be cancelled, but they may be cancelled in cases where the value of the asset will differ significantly from the binding response given. This does not mean that the binding answer automatically lapses, but there is an option if it deviates by more than 30%. or 1 million kr. There is also something about introducing an international circumvention clause into Danish tax legislation. I think it is really positive that it is now being done, since it is typical at international level that the problem of tax havens needs to be resolved. So it's positive too. Then it is also worth noting that I do not remember whether the other rapporteurs have mentioned the fact that a tax havens package has also been made in the field of business. It is just to mention that there are more measures besides what is being discussed today. It is a question of tackling the problem of tax havens, and that is actually very positive. With regard to the other elements of the proposal, I would like to mention that the rules for the digital deficit calculation for companies that we adopted over a year ago are now being changed. It is now postponed for at least one year, but at the same time the sanctions will be relaxed if you have not reported, so that you can now get an increase in your tax payment of DKK 5 000, where you could lose the entire right to transfer the deficit. It is also a change that we support in the Danish People's Party. Then there are some corrections to the rates of weight tax on passenger cars and caravans, where there has been an incorrect indexation. You get that right back to the level that should be. I can say that the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327131823	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327131834	Thank you for the floor. On behalf of our tax rapporteur, Nadeem Farooq, who has fallen ill this morning, I am going to make his rapporteur's speech. It is important for the Radical Left and for the government to step up efforts against tax havens. I therefore welcome the fact that there is a large political majority in favour of this agreement. The government has on several occasions stepped up its efforts against tax havens, and this fight is therefore about fairness and defence of common welfare. However, it is also important for the sake of the majority of companies that do not speculate on tax evasion. Although the strongest weapon against tax havens lies in global cooperation, it is important that, in practice, individual countries also give priority to this agenda on the home front. That's what we're doing here. Tax evasion across national borders and the use of tax havens are a major challenge for the international community, which is precisely why both national and international efforts are needed. This is what we are doing with this bill, which is the implementation of the political agreement that was concluded shortly before Christmas. The agreement came in the wake of the government's ambitious tax haven package of 6 November 2014. With these considerations, the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327131950	Thank you, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327132000	I am speaking on behalf of SF's tax rapporteur, Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who is out running a very, very long trip to the Middle East for a free Palestine. We in the SF are pleased that the parties to the agreement agree that cross-border tax evasion and the use of tax havens are a major challenge for the international community. Globalisation and cross-border electronic commerce give rise to new tax havens, and tax speculators are creative in their attempts to avoid paying taxes in Denmark. We support the many good elements of this package, but still believe that there is much to work on in this area. We lack stronger action on the limited companies. As mentioned in the December agreement, limited companies are a form of company that allows for easy start-up in Denmark. However, there has been criticism that the ownership of the limited companies may be unclear and that companies may be misused for laundering foreign assets. From the SF we tried to include the taxation of limited companies in the overall agreement, but there was no support for that. We consider the area to be of such a serious nature that we have put forward a legislative proposal specifically concerning the introduction of tax liability for foreign participants in Danish limited companies. It has been found that Danish limited companies of foreign investors are used for a comprehensive hiding of black money and tax evasion. The Government's initiative is therefore not quite enough. Summing up, I would say that the SF supports the bill, but with a reminder that we want further action in the field of limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327132132	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327132142	Of course, the Enhedslisten also supports the proposal. I would like to say that, in combating tax havens and tax evasion, multinational companies which will avoid paying taxes and what else we know of frauds, which have actually cost Danish society huge billions of dollars over the years, have been one of the hallmarks of Enhedslisten for a very long period of time. We think we have achieved some things, including with the current government, and have made agreements both in the field of the Ministry of Business and Growth and in the field of the Ministry of Taxation and have now got the second package of legislative proposals that have come as a follow-up to the political agreements. This is progress. But we still believe that more is needed. The thing with the limited companies has been mentioned. We agree that Denmark is still a country like Denmark, for example. in Russia markets as a place that can be used to transport money through to avoid paying tax. Well, as long as this kind of marketing exists in the world, I think we also have a job to do here with ourselves. The same applies to trusts and some of the other structures. In other words, some of the constructions we have in Denmark which are abused by foreign companies are completely superfluous because we have so many other opportunities to make companies: partnerships, limited companies. There are plenty of options. If you want a real company to operate in Denmark, there is a company form that fits. Some of those we have discussed here, also in connection with this agreement, are company designs that have no real content other than the fact that some would like to use them to avoid paying taxes or saving money away, making sure that there is no publicity about their accounts and the actor. Something is still needed, and it can be seen from the fact that we have a pending case with the tax minister, namely the possibility of using information from abroad concerning people who use tax havens to avoid paying taxes, the so-called tax lists that have come from Switzerland. There has been a leak in the bank HSBC, which only now, 5-6 years after the leak happened, is being exploited by the Danish authorities to investigate what it is for some people who have stored billions of dollars in Switzerland to avoid paying tax. That is why we are also examining it. We had consultations only yesterday, where we tried to get to the bottom of it. What happened? How can one avoid using the information one had the opportunity to obtain in order to bang tax scammers in the million-dollar class? We would like to clarify this. What happened? We will do so both for the sake of general justice and for the sake of a large amount of money, no doubt and then, of course, in order to prevent it from happening again in the future. We have also had a discussion with both the tax minister and mostly with the Minister for Business and Growth as to whether the government can say that they will not trade with companies that place themselves in tax havens. One is that we think we sold DONG shares to a company in tax havens, but I also think it should be said in general terms that we will not only refrain from selling shares in state companies to tax havens; we also want municipalities, regions and the state to be able to say no to entering into contracts with tax havens. So far, we have been told that we must not do this for the European Union. I'd like to see if that's true. I would therefore like to see the European Union drag us before the Court of Justice to say that Denmark must accept a company located in a tax haven. It would be very interesting to have a discussion on the appropriateness of EU membership at least on that point. So I think you should try to develop it. I would also like to say that yesterday I attended the Carlsberg General Assembly. It's the kind of leisure work I have in Critical Shareholders. I tried to tell them something about party support. They didn't want to tell you about that at all. Carlsberg claimed that they do not support parties with a single crown. I don't believe that, but that's what they said. But I tried another thing, too. If you look at Carlsberg's accounts, you see that it looks like Carlsberg is paying about 1.8 billion. kr. Baby. I'm sure they do. I do not know, but I do not know where they are doing it, because when I look at one of the agreements we have made with the current government about the transparency of what individual companies actually pay in tax in Denmark, it turns out that Carlsberg has paid between 20 and 26 million over the years. kr. in tax in Denmark. This means that about one and a half percent of the total tax payment has fallen in Denmark. It's a lot smaller than Carlsberg's earnings share in Denmark, but leave it today. What I intended to raise yesterday with Carlsberg was to show that in other countries that do not have a similar approach to information, one does not have an earthly chance to know what Carlsberg actually pays for tax in that company. That is why we think that what is called country-by-country tax reporting should be something that the tax minister should be interested in achieving globally. But Enhedslisten supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327132720	Thank you. In fact, no one has asked for short remarks, so we save that time. Then the next speaker is in the line. It's sir. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327132737	In our view, this draft law is based on an entirely wrong approach to the taxation of companies and also of companies operating internationally. After all, Denmark must be a competitive country. It must be the case that companies want to pay taxes in Denmark, instead of companies wanting to take their profits out of Denmark for taxation in other countries with a significantly lower tax burden than the Danish one. Just as long as there is a significant discrepancy between the taxation of companies in Denmark and the taxation of companies abroad, just as much time will be made every possible creative attempt within and outside the legislation to pull the profits out of Denmark into taxation in countries other than Denmark. No matter how skillful the current government may be at stopping this kind of thing, no matter how fine the exams you have among the officials in the ministries and how long experience you have with such things, you will not be able to stem it if there is a significant discrepancy between taxation in Denmark and taxation abroad. Therefore, the approach to this issue is that we have to ensure that Danish taxes are competitive, so companies want to be taxed in Denmark all by themselves. Then we also lack recognition that corporate tax is only a small part of the good that a company is for a society. Businesses contribute to a society in all sorts of other ways, such as: by having employees who receive an income from work on which tax is paid by charging VAT to consumers who are handed over to the Treasury by paying energy taxes, etc. etc. As a result, it could also be seen here recently that the entire left was extremely pleased that Apple places a data centre near Viborg, although Apple has its head office in Ireland, because in Ireland there is a much lower corporation tax. Knowing that we will probably not be able to levy corporation tax on Apple's data centre in Viborg or only a very small corporation tax, it was nevertheless welcomed in recognition of the fact that 50-60 permanent jobs came out of it and that, moreover, it put Denmark on the map. The whole left was delighted about it. I was also pleased about this because I am aware that it is good that companies are reducing themselves in Denmark, whether they are paying corporation tax in Denmark or not. We should have that recognition in several areas instead of thinking that if we just get a lot of corporation tax from the companies, then the sacred grave is well preserved. It is not, and whatever we do, we cannot prevent companies, for example. have their brand located in a country other than Denmark and that all their sales and production from Denmark then triggers payment for the brand to another country where the brand is then taxed much lower than in Denmark. We do not support this bill because it contains two things in particular that we are very critical of. There is an international circumvention clause in which we are very concerned about legal certainty. The Circumvention clause contains the aspect that even if companies do things and cases that are not in themselves illegal, people must be able to sit in the SKAT and assess whether the interaction between the various non-illegal things nevertheless has the character of one or some sort of circumvention, and that therefore one must be able to come after the company. That seems to us to open a barn door to assessments that are not enshrined in the law. Then we are also very sceptical that the binding responses to companies that want to move out of the country should no longer be binding. In other words, they are either binding or they are not binding. To suggest to companies that they are given a binding answer and then to adopt a law that makes it not really binding is also highly questionable in terms of legal certainty. So for that reason too, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327133224	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else wants to speak. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327133241	Thank you, President. I would like to thank you for receiving this proposal. I welcome the broad support for the strengthened efforts against those who cheat the community by keeping money in tax havens. Cross-border tax evasion and the use of tax havens are a major challenge for the international community. Several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned this today. That is also why we need both national and international action. The government is keen to combat tax evasion and the use of tax havens. With this bill, we are certainly on the right track. Today, we are talking about national action to circumvent the corporate tax directives and the double taxation agreements, against the creation of trusts, where the assets are stored from the tax authorities, and against speculation in obtaining binding responses to a low valuation. During the course of the debate, I have taken note of a few different points of view which I think deserve to be made. First of all, the question of binding answers has been raised by the rapporteur of the Left, not least about the legal consequences of it. I would like to make it clear that the proposed amendments to the rules on binding answers do not, in my view, mean a weakening of legal certainty. The changes mean that there will be clearer guidelines as to what circumstances might lead to an end to the answer. In this context, I can also refer to the consultation note, which also examines that part of it. I also note that Mr. Frank Aaen mentions the exchange of information from other countries. There is no doubt whatsoever that we fully agree that it is absolutely essential that we take advantage of all the opportunities we have. In this context, I would like to point out that we now have agreements on the exchange of information with almost all former tax havens. That is very crucial. Some of them still need to be finally negotiated away, but the fact that we will be able to obtain information in this way in practically all former tax havens is an incredibly important tool. We have therefore also established a new programme on 1 January in SKAT. This is what is called SKAT's global exchange of information, which is precisely the task of dealing with all the kinds of information exchanges that we are likely to see much more of in the future. Sir. Frank Aaen also referred to the question of country reporting, that is, what is called country reporting in the OECD context. I am pleased to say that there is a great deal of agreement in the OECD context, as I have been able to trace it, about making country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities of each country. I think that is also a very important part of the effort being made. In general, Denmark participates very actively in the OECD cooperation on what is called the BEPS area, i.e. base erosion and profit shifting. There are some other elements in the proposed bill which are not related to tax havens. It was sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from Dansk Folkeparti among others. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I should just like to point out that the element of weight tax really is a change which is about indexation. It is a draft law back in 2012, where a regrettable error probably occurred in the proof-reading of the bill has made an incorrect indexing. This is a mistake affecting all caravans for which weight tax has been paid in 2015 and a number of older passenger cars. We'll correct that indexing error now. I can point out to those with an older caravan that they do not need to do any more. SKAT will repay the money that has been paid for too much, completely automatically. I would also like to thank the citizen who approached me and the Treasury for pointing out that something was a little wrong. The citizen in question was absolutely right about that. It is, of course, difficult to say about the proposal that we are now discussing in general what the proceeds are from these measures, but the increased effort against tax havens will be able to make significant improvements in these areas in certain years. I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place and, of course, I look forward to a constructive committee procedure in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327133825	Thank you. It does not appear that there are any further questions. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150327133847	Then there is another review here at the end of the meeting: Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 136 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reduction of registration tax of 1%) and a 1% reduction in the tax on petrol and diesel). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). So there is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 7 April 2015, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and will also refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the website. Good Easter.
