ParlaMint-DK_20150417100003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karina Adsbøl (DF) and Karin Nødgaard (DF): Request no. F 38 (Will the Minister explain the role of the State Administration in the administration of cases involving vulnerable children and young people, including how many supervisory cases the State Administration has raised, which cases the State Administration has examined more closely in relation to the supervision of municipalities, which cases are rejected and on what basis, and will the Minister also give its assessment of whether the construction of the State Administration is adequate and up-to-date in relation to the tasks of supervising the municipalities?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100027	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100053	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100110	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the SF for putting the issue of consumer protection on the agenda here in Parliament. This is, of course, a very important issue and I believe that we can quickly agree that a high level of consumer protection is important. After all, the two-year notice period for consumer purchases corresponds to the minimum period laid down in the Consumer Purchases Directive and, it may be said, expresses what has been agreed at European level. Therefore, I must make a possible long speech short by saying that we agree with the SF that we must constantly seek to give consumers better opportunities. We have the feeling from the government that the European road is the best way to go, and that is why we would also like to propose that the discussion be held there. It is clear that we can, of course, have a fear that if we extend the deadline alone in Denmark, it will not be the right way to work when we have a level that is good and that works across borders, because there are so many consumer issues that are precisely cross-border. That is why it would also be my suggestion that we should be inspired by the ideas of the SF, but that we should raise the issue at EU level, where consumer law issues are, of course, being dealt with on an ongoing basis. That is why, hopefully, the positive announcement from the SF that we, on the part of the government, would like to raise the issue when we find an appropriate opportunity to do so, but that we do so in a European context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100308	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100310	Thank you for your reply, which was brief and so on, and that is a good thing, but I suppose it was a little imprecise about the fact that we are doing a little bit in the European Union, and then about the fact that we wanted to raise it on an appropriate occasion. That's what scared me a little, 'cause when's the appropriate opportunity? The whole idea of the proposal is, in fact, that we are trying to coordinate the Nordic at the level that lies in the Nordic region. Then I think it is quite right that we can use it as a starting point to raise it in the European Union as well. But when is the Minister's opinion appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100404-2	Well, appropriate means that it has to fit in with all the other priorities we have. Surely, as the country's Minister of Justice, I must not hide the fact that the issue of terrorism and the forms of cross-border crime is of course my main concern, and that is what I am spending my primary time on. That is also, in my view, what I am going to do as the country's Minister of Justice, and that is why, in the future, my main effort in the European context will be to establish a PNR system, to combat cross-border crime, to combat terrorism. I would also very much like to fight the cause of consumers, but it will therefore be in an ongoing priority, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100447	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100448	After all, this is not such a personal matter as to what the Minister is spending his time asking. It is, in fact, whether the government will do so here in relation to the European Union. And when the Minister himself says that the government is going to raise it in the European Union, I think it is talking completely without talking about terror and foreign fighters. After all, we are still working in this Parliament on other things, and hopefully the minister's ministry is doing the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100518	Yes, we do, but it is of no use that every time I go to the platform, I make it sound as if every case has the same priority, because it will not be right, and that is not how I lead the Ministry of Justice, and I would also like to admit that there are some important tasks which have a greater urgency within it. That is why I say very frankly and sincerely to the Folketing that I think this is an important issue, but it does not have a main priority on my part. However, I think it is important and I would like to respond to the SF in this area, and then we will find a time when it is appropriate, and then we will be happy to raise the issue at European level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100602	There is an extra short remark from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100606	It was the Minister for Justice's comments that led me to ask for the floor. I agree that the fight against terrorism is important and has a high priority, but what the Minister says leads to the conclusion that the government may have created a Ministry of Justice which is too large and which simply deals with too many different things. It is from the warranty on washing machines to foreign policy to the fight against terrorism. Will the Minister work on the possibility that the Ministry of Justice might have a more reasonable size as it had under the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100643	It is quite true that there are many tasks associated with being the Danish Minister of Justice, but exactly the question of the resort and how the ministries are organised and what tasks are associated with it is only a matter for the Prime Minister of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100657	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100658	Yeah, but the Minister of Justice knows the PM, and I think it's pretty good, so maybe the Minister of Justice could whisper it in his ear and come up with a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100709	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100709-2	Yes, yes, I am talking to the Prime Minister about a great deal, but it goes without saying that consumer rights and consumer safety and consumer protection are important. It is for all of us. When there is mention of household appliances, it is typically where ordinary people also make large investments, and there of course we need a code of conduct that works well. I think it is important that we have European rules in this area and that Denmark places itself at the heart of European cooperation, because there are quite a lot of goods being transported cross-border and cross-border, and it is no longer unusual that we should also be buying cross-border and cross-border. I therefore believe that the consumer issue is best placed in a European context, and I would also like to raise it in a European context, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100759	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417100816	The SF has, of course, tabled a motion for a resolution which, as the Minister of Justice also mentioned, proposes that the warranty we have in today's Buying Act should be extended to between three and five years. I have to understand it at least 3 years or up to 5 years or perhaps a differential complaint period of 3 years or 5 years respectively. It is not quite clear what you really want. However, at least the two years must be extended to a minimum of three years. After all, it is not so awfully long since we had a deadline of only one year in the purchasing law. The deadline is now 2 years, and it is twice as long as 1 year, and it is now proposed by the SF that the deadline we had previously should be extended by one year as much as five years. I should just like to point out that there is a difference between a guarantee period and a complaint period. It is not the case that the store has to stand for the product, but the consumer has an opportunity to advertise, and then what we can have here is the discussion about whether it was an original defect or whether something has happened to the product, which is the consumer's own responsibility, for example. because the consumer has used the product in a wrong way. The proposers have the intention that the proposal will increase consumer protection, create greater incentives for producers and self-employed workers to produce and market products with a longer life span, and we cannot object to that in the Left. However, we believe that competition also means that operators have an interest in producing good products, including those with a long life. However, in the Left we believe that the proposal is far too broad and that, therefore, it has not ultimately expressed the same concern that an extended complaint period will lead to price increases, and this will not benefit consumers. In addition, the introduction of an extended complaint period would distort competition for Danish producers, Danish traders, Danish shops, since 2 years is the usual complaint period in the vast majority of European countries. If an extended complaint period is introduced, an increased price increase in Denmark can therefore lead Danish consumers to buy their goods even more in foreign online shops, which will not be covered by the extended complaint rules, and this will harm both Danish industry and ultimately consumers as well. The Left also shares Dansk Erhverv's concern that a longer warranty law will lead to significantly more cases in the Consumer Complaints Board, since it can be quite difficult for both consumers and companies to assess whether there is an initial deficiency or a user-inflicted injury when a product breaks down, for example. 4 years. However, we recognise that the current two-year complaint period may be problematic in relation to a few major purchases of long-term consumer goods such as a car, but we therefore believe that any change in the warranty law should be made through a pan-European purchasing law, and therefore the Left cannot support the SF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101203	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101205	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you for a thorough review of the views of the Left here. I was waiting for a place where we could meet, and I got that right at the end of the day. And it's really here where the proposal has a strength, if it has a strength, and I think it has it precisely when it comes to long-term consumer goods. The rapporteur of the Left mentioned cars, but that also applies to washing machines and a large number of these things. We should have a longer period there. So I'm not buying that model that makes it more expensive. In fact, I do not really understand the argument, because we are not doing any more bureaucracy. We are prolonging a rule that was once one year old and is now two years old because it is an EU rule. We extend it to three years. There will be no more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101303	Of course, one must be careful not to let one's own experience be decisive for what one thinks, but nevertheless it is they who are closest to oneself. It's not long since I bought a MacBook for my daughter for confirmation, and the seller down in FONA asks if I want an insurance policy, so the product is covered for 4 years. And it costs money. It was quite expensive, it cost more than DKK 2,000, and it is a calculation of the risk that the product breaks down, which the store puts in when it comes to calculating the price of insurance. I said no to the insurance, because I agree that the computer should last longer, and I am covered for the first two years. But there is no doubt that it is a risk that you take, and it is something that brings complaints and time and time is money. The second point I would like to mention is that when it comes to washing machines, I can recommend the SF rapporteur to buy a Miele. We have done so ourselves, and for the time being it has lasted for 15 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101405	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101408	The last example is surely a sign that we have legislation that is lagging behind. The best companies are better than the ones we're talking about here. And in reality it is just that there is also some protection for consumers against those companies that do not offer long guarantees. So I actually just feel like the example confirms that I have a point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101435	I don't think so. Well, my belief is that technological developments and globalisation have meant that today you can get a Miele washing machine for 10,000, 12,000 or 15,000 kroner, which then lasts 10, 15 or 20 years. But you can also get some cheap product for 1,200 or 1,500 DKK. And if I buy a washing machine for $1,200 to $1,500, I don't expect it to last 4 or 5 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101508	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Sina as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101520	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for debating consumer protection and the right of complaint. Consumer protection is an important issue and it is always particularly relevant to have a debate on how the right of complaint is organised. Does it work the way it's supposed to? Do consumers understand and use their rights? Should the warranty be longer and should it be equal for all products? We in the Socialists certainly believe that we must always work to strengthen consumer rights, and the right of complaint plays a crucial role here. In Denmark, historically, we have always been good at protecting consumers, but we also see how consumption patterns change and how new forms of trade confront consumers with new problems, for example. When they shop online. It requires us to keep up with developments and to look at how we can be even better at guaranteeing the rights of Danish consumers. The right of complaint is a particularly important element in our consumer protection, because we must, of course, make demands on producers and ensure that consumers have the best cards on hand for those who fail to deliver decent products. That is why I also agree that we should look at whether the length of the complaint period is sufficient. And I can also see the reason why we are considering some kind of differentiated warranty for some of the products where you can expect them to last significantly longer than the 2 years that the warranty law is on today. However, such a change also has consequences which we must bear in mind. First of all, I think that one of the forces of the current warranty is that it is so simple and to remember. If we change it too often, and if we make it more complicated, it will not be used, so we should be careful about that. And although it is important that consumer legislation in Denmark is in order, we must also recognise that the way we consume today is no longer confined to shops in this country. Online trade has increased the need for proper consumer rights between countries, and this also applies to complaints. That is why I believe, first of all, that we must strive to create better rules of complaint within the European Union. When cross-border trade takes place, consumer protection must do the same. This requires that we work to have a proper right of complaint, possibly introduced into a common European purchasing law, which I believe is being worked on. It is certainly not straightforward, but it is necessary if we really want to strengthen the rights of Danish and European consumers. So, although this is an area which certainly has our attention, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101748	Sir. Steen Gade for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101750	Thank you. Thank you for your gracious tone and for our being able to play a part in the process of European purchasing law, because it is, after all, a little concrete. What I want to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur is whether it does not make the impression that we have three years and, for some, longer than that in the other Nordic countries. Doesn't that make a little impression? Are they completely out in the hemp in Sweden, Norway and Iceland?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101828	I always think that we can learn from our Scandinavian friends and should always compare ourselves with them and see if we can be inspired by each other because we are so much alike. But in this area we do not necessarily remind each other of all things, because the burden of proof is in a different way. The consumer in fact sometimes has really, really difficult to prove that the damage had happened when they bought the product when a product is 4 years old. There are a lot of challenges in the way it is in some of our Scandinavian neighbouring countries, because the purchasing law that has not been put together in exactly the same way as it is with us, where we actually have a very good position for consumers in the two years that the warranty law lasts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101915	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101916	Thank you. I have read the answers about the differences between the Nordic countries, and that is true. Now, of course, some of the Nordic countries will have to implement the EU directives in this area, so that more and more things become the same. The difference remains that some of the Nordic countries have a longer time limit for complaint than we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417101945	Yes, but that is why we are saying that we need to look at it in principle, but in a common European context, so that we do not end up with different rules. In my optics, this is ultimately about consumer protection, but of course also about the sustainability of the products provided by producers. It should of course be possible for it not only to be Miele, who apparently has the washing machine here, but that everyone else is also living up to that kind of standards. We only do that if we push the producer stage, and I think we only do that at a European level. Although there are many of us here in Scandinavia, I believe that it is much stronger if we do so in a common European context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102025	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Hjermind Dencker as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102033	Thank you. The proposal here from the Socialist People's Party is to call on the government to put forward legislative proposals extending the right of complaint from two years to three or five years. In the Danish People's Party we have a great deal of sympathy for the loving thought that we know lies behind the Socialist People's Party's initiative. It is clear that the resolution is based on the desire to improve consumer conditions. We're glad to see that, and I actually think we're all passionate about that. We just need to be thorough when we examine how we can provide consumers with the best conditions. In December, we consumer rapporteurs had the pleasure of having a visitor. They knocked on each of our offices and asked if it was not a good idea for us to extend the warranty. There I said: yes, I actually think it is a very good idea for us to do it for cars, because I think that when you buy a car for several hundred thousand, yes, you should have a warranty that is longer than two years. The fact that I said yes to cars, they cut off, of course, and they just brought me along to say yes. By the way, Denmark's Radio is often like that. But when it comes to anything other than cars, I can actually see that this may be problematic. We have in Denmark one of the world's best consumer complaint systems. It is the case that today a consumer pays only DKK 160. in order to have his or her case assessed, irrespective of whether he or she has failed to comply with his or her product. In Denmark, the state pays for the consumer's complaints. SF talks about that we should do as in Norway or Sweden. So I would like to be a consumer in Denmark ten times more than I would like to be in Norway or Sweden, because if I buy a toaster for DKK 300 in Denmark, it only costs me DKK 160. to complain about it. If I do so in Sweden, I will have to pay the full amount for the proceedings, and I will have to pay for an expert sitting on it knocking and assessing whose fault it is. Then it is easy as a politician to set a longer time when it is the consumer who has to pay the entire bill. That is why I understand that companies are taking it completely relaxed. So you can ask yourself: Should not a refrigerator or a washing machine last longer than 2 years? Yeah, I think they should. That is why we also have a wealth of opportunities in Denmark. You can go into a white goods store and say: I would like to buy a washing machine that will last for 5 years. Then they identify the manufacturers who guarantee a lifetime of 5 years or more. So there are lots of products you can buy where the manufacturer guarantees longer durability, and you can also, as the Left said, buy an additional insurance. You can also, if you are not so lucky financially, and there you are, as a rule, when your washing machine breaks down, because it always makes it inconvenient, go in and say: I just buy the cheapest, and then I have no expectation that it will last longer than the two years. But if we adopted the SF's proposal and if the government decided that we should extend this complaint deadline, then we would be absolutely sure of two things. Since, thankfully, companies are free to regulate their prices as they please, we can be sure that here we will give them a welcome opportunity to do so. The poorest consumers will suffer. The second important point is that the older the product, the more difficult it is for an expert to determine whether the problem is due to wear, default or production defects. So we wanted to put down the Consumer Complaints Board and that would cost taxpayers dearly. So I can fear that we will end up punishing the consumers we are here to help. In the Danish People's Party we welcome the fact that Denmark has a consumer complaint system where it is the state that pays for the consumer complaints. We are also pleased that whatever product you as a consumer want to buy, there is always the possibility to choose a manufacturer that guarantees longer durability than the 2 years. So the question is not whether we can expect some products to last longer than two years, because of course we can. The question is more about the fact that when we live in a world where consumers have never had more opportunities, you can buy online, you can buy abroad, you can buy the various appliances in Denmark, or you can do as my husband always says to me: You can also just stop buying something • When is it so reasonable that we as a state should keep our hands on consumers who have made a choice where you might think it was their own responsibility? And there I actually think it is really beautiful that we in Denmark choose to say: We will do that for 2 years, even if you have bought the very cheapest. Even if you haven't always thought about it, we'd like to help you in those two years. I think that's really nice. So let us welcome the good system we have in Denmark. And then, in the Danish People's Party, we hope that we will not have Swedish conditions, either when it comes to their consumer system or so much else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102556	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102559	Thank you. I would like to say about the good consumer complaints system that it is true that improvements have been made, also recently, the other day, but it costs something more than DKK 160. I think it was the day before yesterday that it should be increased. So we certainly make it harder for consumers to complain. That is the first thing I wanted to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I would say that if there is to be an idea in a warranty, it must surely be that it helps the consumer not to fall into the trap of buying something that looks cheap but that is bad and is therefore more expensive. That is probably the idea of the warranty law, and I do not think that it was quite clear from the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, despite the positive comments from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102658	Thank you. It is true with the system we have adopted that when you go ahead in the next phase, it costs more if you go beyond the stage of mediation as it is called, but you can never, as a consumer, even if you lose a case, risk paying more than the 500 kroner. So I really think that our system is much better than the Swedish and Norwegian systems, and I am curious to see whether SF also approves of us introducing that the consumer should pay for himself. Because it seems that SF thinks it is fantastic with the Norwegian and Swedish systems, so I would like to know whether it is in every way, or whether it is just in terms of extending this consumer complaint period, and what we are doing when it starts to fall down with complaints.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102753	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102755	Well, the proposal is about extending the complaint period; it is not about introducing the rules they have in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102804	Thank you, I am happy to confirm that, and I look forward to seeing funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102811	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417102820	Thank you very much. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution from the SF, which proposes to extend the warranty right from 2 years to a place between 3 and 5 years from 1 January 2016. As many people have said before, the intention of the proposal is, in fact, good if we want to protect both the interests of consumers and to ensure better products, but if we then go down and look at the consequences of what is actually being proposed here, then we radically do not believe that any of these things will be achieved. We believe that neither better products nor better protection for consumers and better protection for their interests will be achieved if this proposal is adopted. Today, consumers have two years to complain about a product if it has broken. In fact, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also explained, they can go in and say that this product has broken down, and they should not in any way explain what has happened and whether it was an error on the product at the time of origin; it is therefore a right which one has as a consumer that it is not for one to be able to prove that the fault was there from the beginning. In addition, you can complain very, very cheaply. When you complain, you can add a small amount of money to what is called mediation, and then you can proceed with a real complaint for 500 kr. A complaint can easily cost the state 10,000 kroner. You just need to know that somebody is paying that bill for the complaint, so if there is a lot of complaints by extending the warranty right, then there is also a big bill for the state. There will also be a lot of trouble for the individual companies who have to deal with these many complaints that come into the store. Many of them simply say that there are products that they will stop being able to sell. Internet shops experience getting back goods that people have gone in; they experience having clothes and shoes sent back that people have gone in and where they say they want to send it back. So what's next? Is it that people come after four years with things that they've worn down? Then you have worn your sneakers completely down, and then you think it was a mistake that was at the time of origin. So there are really big challenges with this because the burden of proof is not on the customer. In addition, it has to be said that it can mean more expensive products for Danish consumers. Because we must always remember that there is a bill somewhere, which means that as a company or as a business you may have to raise your prices to pay for this. More trade will go to foreign web shops, and I do not think that is for the benefit of Danish consumers. In addition, the complaint system can be blocked by a great many complaints; there is also an advantage in not being stuck in the complaint system for a very long time for minor complaints. We know that there are a number of areas where longer guarantees are already provided; in some places it is actually quite a competitive parameter. In JYSK you can barely buy a mattress without having 25 years thrown in the neck. On cars it is such a place between 2, 3, 5 years, and it is also a place where car manufacturers are just as quietly starting to compete in being able to do this. I would say that we on the radical side actually agree that this is an important matter. It is important to ensure consumers, it is important to ensure better products. It should not be worth making a TV where you put in a fuse, and it breaks after 2, 3, 4 years. It should not be worth making a refrigerator that can't last more than two years. However, we believe that if we are to move these producers, we must do so at European level. Then you have to go in and have the other European countries say together that you will move it from perhaps two years to three years or five years on some of the big expensive products at European level, because it will mean that producers will have to produce better products. That is why I would like to say in relation to the part mentioned by the SF in its comments, that is to say, in trying to create a common Nordic position in the European Union, that it is possible to do so, even if you do not have exactly the same rules. You might say that you want to push together in the European Union to extend the right of complaint and, in fact, in a way where it is not just a matter of whether there should be an error or a deficiency, but, in fact, whether they are making a good enough product. I mean, how long is a product supposed to last? I think that is an important discussion to have taken. But we do not think this is excluded by the fact that we do not have exactly the same rules. So the Radical Left cannot support this SF proposal, even though we share the intention, because we do not think that is what comes out of adopting this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103302	Sir. Steen Gade, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103303	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. I now ignore the argument that goes on in the European Union and that we can work together in the Nordic countries, because I agree with that in many ways. However, with regard to all the first points made by Mrs Ida Auken, I would like to ask whether it could not have been argued in exactly the same way when we were discussing whether we should go from one year to two years. One could say no to increasing to 2 years with exactly the same arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103335	No, because, first of all, the minimum guarantee for the European Union is two years, and secondly, I would like to say that there is a very big difference between two years and five years as a company. In other words, one must be able to prove as a company that the error which the customer enters and points out is less than 5 years old is virtually impossible in practice. So what I think must be the important thing is that when the pan-European purchasing law comes out of the Commission's side and we can also try to push for something to be put forward and not to scrap this proposal, then we use the strength, also from the Danish side, to get a common position with those who are interested in getting better products across Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103421	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103422	Well, the theme that we should use this to raise it in the European Union, I agree with and welcome. However, I believe that Mrs Ida Auken, if she looks at her arguments, will see that it is completely similar to the discussion one might have had when it was decided to go from one year's warranty to two years' warranty. Then it is true that it is a minimum right. Yes, it is because it has been adopted in the European Union. But if we look at the reasoning, there are exactly the same arguments against going from one year at the time, to two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103502	But I do not doubt that the same arguments have been advanced in relation to going from one year to two years. I wouldn't have brought them back then. So I think there is a very big difference between going from one year to two years and going to five years. That is simply my position, and I think it makes the argument very consistent to say that it is a very big shift to be able to account for the durability of a product for five years. I would then say that there are some products where it makes really, very good sense, but it only does so because we need to produce better products; we need to make better refrigerators, better televisions, better electronic products all around, which should not be broken up the way they are doing now. And if you ask me, I think that some of what we should look at is whether we should start handing out fines to companies where we can see that they have simply deliberately put in fuses that break. It is mysterious when all the screens at Christiansborg from the same manufacturer collapse at the same time. That's weird. This is something we have to look at when we look at this purchasing law, i.e. whether there are some manufacturers who deliberately speculate that their products should not last long.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103613	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103615	I think it's some pretty wild claims coming from the SF that producers deliberately admit it was fuses in computer screens and other things that make them all break at the same time. Is that something I said SF? Excuse me, it's the Radical Left; the missed party that Mrs. Ida Auken can document? I think that's some crazy claims.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103646	It's actually one of the things we'd like to look at. It may be that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen that there are manufacturers who speculate that their products should only last a certain period. It may well be that this is a completely new information for Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. For the rest of us, it is a rather trivial knowledge that there are simply products that could live much, much longer and be much, much better for the consumer if they were produced properly from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103712	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103713	Mrs Ida Auken therefore believes that the company with which the Folketing has concluded an agreement after tender has deliberately placed a mechanism in their computer screens so that they all break at the same time. Is that what Mrs. Ida Auken says from Parliament's platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103733-2	No, that's not what I'm saying. I'm just saying that it's kind of weird to see that the screens you've got at the same time on the same time you're sitting, break down almost every week. That's weird, and I'm just wondering. Then I would like to see whether it might be that some of the products we are surrounded with actually do not last as long as they should. It turns out that if you go in and restart the chip in printers there have been lots of consumer programs about on TV they can actually run all over again. They're broken, and then you go in and reboot them in a chip. These are things that we should not accept on behalf of our citizens. It may be that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen thinks it's okay that as a company you can do something like that. We don't think so. We think that consumers should be protected in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103820	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103824	In other words, despite the fact that there is no evidence at all that there are some producers who fifle, the Radical Left will nevertheless intro duce large, large fines for something that cannot be documented. It seems like a very special business policy if you ask me. I hope that the Radical Left may give a slightly deeper insight into what is the point of that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103853	I think that Mrs Mai Mercado should listen to what is being said from the parliamentary platform. I say that if we are finally to get in and protect the consumer, then we have to go in and look at some of the things that I think all people are experiencing, namely that products break down long before they should. To me, it's just that it's not okay. It is simply not right for consumers to have products and pay thousands of dollars for them, and then they are not produced in a way that keeps them. And then I say: if we are finally going to tighten up on this area, let's see if the sanctions in this area are good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103926	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103927	But then Mrs Ida Auken must also be able to answer when something is so systematic a mistake that the penalty must begin to be passed on. In other words, I can only say for myself and for my party that it is very violent to go in and threaten with fines for something for which there is no shadow of evidence at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417103948	Well, that is one of the things we need to look at when we want better products in the European Union. That's what the limit is. I mean, how long does a product have to last? Shouldn't a car last for five years? Well, that's a question: Shouldn't a car last 5 years? I'd like to ask you that. So the Conservative People's Party does not care about consumers. You don't think people who bought a $200,000 car should be able to expect it to last for five years. I am just surprised that the Conservative People's Party thinks it doesn't matter that, in some situations, this balance doesn't benefit consumers at all. We think it should be. We think it is important that producers have an intention and an incentive to produce as good products as possible. And that's one of the things we'd like to look at radically in the future when we're looking at these things. It is then to ensure that it should not be free to make bad products.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417104038	Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417104046	Thank you. Our rapporteur on this bill, sir. Henning Hyllested, unfortunately could not be here today, so I have promised to read a speech on his behalf: The Enhedslisten unreservedly supports this motion for a resolution from the SF. Not only will the proposal increase consumer protection, but at the same time it will help to reduce resource consumption in the manufacture of a large number of industrial products, since the proposal will certainly encourage producers to produce more durable products with a longer lifespan. The more countries that extend the right of complaint, the faster the trend will be in that direction. The Enhedslisten has himself tabled a motion for a resolution called B 106 which is moving in the same direction. With our motion for a resolution, we want manufacturers and distributors of electrical and electronic products to provide customers with information on the longevity of the products they produce or sell, as well as on how long spare parts will be available. The reason for this is that there has been a sharp increase in the proportion of household appliances that last less than five years. Life is going the wrong way, which generally increases the consumption of resources for the production of new products and puts the economy of consumers at a disadvantage. We believe that it is a problem that producers are becoming increasingly obsolescent in products. Our proposal is inspired by the fact that the same step has been taken in France. Therefore, better rules for complaints are one of several means of action, and we will then have the opportunity to discuss the issue again when the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution is before us. However, as I said, the Enhedslisten supports SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417104232	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417104244	I was wondering, when I heard the debate, whether this discussion could be transferred to political views, i.e. whether the warranty could be given or the life span of political views extended. It might be that some interested here in view of the fact that we may or may not be approaching a parliamentary election day by day, week by week. Well, this bill is now under review in every way, which is why it is now difficult to add new points of view. And then I could just confine myself to saying that the Liberal Alliance cannot support this proposal. We have noted that the Minister of Justice will work on the matter when it is appropriate. I would say that the opposite would also be strange if it were inappropriate. That is why there is not much more to be added on our part than we cannot support this proposal. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417104347	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417104359	SF proposes to extend the warranty from 2 years to between 3 and 5 years. The argument is that, on the one hand, it increases consumer protection and, on the other hand, it ensures a greater incentive to produce and sell long-life products, and, on the other hand, the latter has not been discussed so much in this debate yet. In the Conservative People's Party we have noted that the government is currently not planning to change legislation, according to questions answered by the Ministry of Justice, and we cannot out of the answers from the Ministry read exactly what the reason is. We have heard this in today's debate because of the European Union, but in fact we believe from the Conservative People's Party that there is reason to believe that it could create an imbalance. A number of speakers have already said so. After all, it is important that there is a balance between the rights of consumers on the one hand and the opportunities for traders to sell their products on the other. That is why we are concerned about whether the proposal is going to upset this balance, so that it becomes less attractive for traders to sell their goods in Denmark, or whether the goods are becoming more expensive, and therefore we cannot support the proposal. But I would just like to acknowledge that the idea of reducing the volume of these purchases and throwing away products, which SF writes about in its proposal, seems very sympathetic to us, and we would of course like to enter into a political discussion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417104515	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Steen Gade from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417104528	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. Thank you to Enhedslisten for support. Otherwise, I would like to say a few things about some of the arguments that have been there. I understand from what has been said so far at least that there would actually be an understanding in here that there could be a very few goods which could reasonably have been long warrantyed. There are, for example: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by Otherwise, I will see that there was a discussion in 3 to 5 years. When we've written 3 to 5 years, it's true that the minimum should be 3 years, but that's because there's actually a difference. It also depends on where the need is greatest. I have mentioned cars that could be considered going as far as five years. There's been a discussion about this, about how it's gonna be more expensive. In relation to Jan E. Jørgensen's speech about the Miele washing machine and other things, it can be said that it can't be our job either, since we now have a law on the warranty, to think it's okay that people buy something cheaply bad that they're going to hang on to. The right of complaint is a protection for consumers. You can argue so it could sound like you don't want a warranty at all. I think we should have that. This does not mean that I am not incredibly pleased that there are some companies that operate with guarantees and much longer guarantees than what we are talking about here, and fortunately for that. I would also like to help encourage consumers to go for this. But it is to get the worst out of the market, one can say that we have the warranty. It is simply because companies are not trying to get rid of selling something that is just bad and does not work. So the whole idea is to protect the consumer, so it is cheaper and better for the consumer in the long term, but it may well be that some products are going out of the market in Denmark because of this. Nor could anything be done about this if it is products that actually make people pay too much. In this connection, there was a little talk about obsolescence. I do not know if it exists; I only note that if the right of complaint is extended, the incentive to build up obsolescence will be reduced. We have proposed that efforts be made to increase it in Denmark and to gain a common Nordic position vis-à-vis the European Union. There is one rapporteur from the Radical Left who has said that we can do that anyway. Yeah, let's do it. The Minister has then said that we can raise it with the European Union, and some of the rapporteurs have been more positive in the wording than the Minister, and I will try to use that in committee, so that we can get something written down about it, so that we at least have an agreement that there may actually be a need to increase the right of complaint at European level and that we will have the government to work for it. What time will it then be, and whether it will be appropriate or inappropriate, and whether it applies to the European Union, or that applies to the Minister, I do not know. In fact, I was a little upset at the Minister that it was going to be involved in this discussion, because I was sitting there on my chair thinking: does the Minister now think that this is more important than terror? I would never think so, but this Parliament is dealing with a lot of things, and so are all ministries. Finally, I would like to make a small comment. This proposal is, of course, also a follow-up to a case which SF believes we should do something about and which was covered closely by television, and in fact there was a majority, at least on television, in order for this complaint period to be extended. I actually thought, okay, there are some things you go on with, even if they're not huge, but important. So I also chose this one to find out if we're good enough here in the Folketing to say what we really mean when we're asked on TV. I don't think we are, and I'd be happy to take us all with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105039	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105042	I agree with the comments on the Minister for Justice's reference to counter-terrorism. It was black coal. On the other hand, I do not agree with that, sir. Steen Gade doesn't say anything about the TV show either. What I made very clear was that we were talking about such things as cars, for example. After all, the SF has drafted a resolution which is very broad and which raises the bottom line from two years to three years for all products. I just think that time has run out of it. I can figure out that sir. Steen Gade probably also remembers what it was like to rent a movie box in his time. Because you couldn't afford to buy a videotape recorder, you rented a box you dragged home so you could play the videotapes you had rented in Christianhavns Video. Nobody does today. Why not? Because today you can get a DVD player for 300 kr. This is a possibility which means that people with low incomes have had some in world history never seen similar-to-consumption opportunities. But I guess you don't expect me to do that if you buy a DVD player for 300 kroner, you have to be able to go down to the store with it after 41⁄2 years and say: It doesn't work. Will you send it to repair? Do you, sir? Steen Gade?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105203	I don't know. I actually make an effort not to buy too expensive products, and I really think it goes well in many ways. Now it is argued that we have said that the deadline for everything should be five years. It is true that we have said that it should be three years. If we can agree on something else, let us concentrate on it if there is a need to extend the right of complaint in some places. When I have written 3 to 5 years' time, it is because 3 years is consistent with harmonisation in the Nordic countries, and that was part of the idea. The five years were a signal that the products should not have equal rights of complaint, and that is also a new principle, and I understand that the Left will at least consider that we had the new principle introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105301	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105303	This is not harmonisation. In Sweden you have 3 years on everything, but in Norway you have only 2 years as here in Denmark, but then you have 5 years on long-lasting consumer goods. So it is not harmonisation to say from 3 to 5 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105325-2	Let us not discuss that part of it, but perhaps we are interested in whether we agreed that there are some products where there is a need for a longer warranty. I think we should continue to discuss this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105339	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak on this point. The debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105358	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105421	Thank you. I would like to start by saying to the authors of the motion that I think it is a very relevant subject to be addressed with this motion for a resolution. It's a huge nuisance to our entire capital when cables are stolen. It is an irritation for the many people who are on their way to education and work and other activities. It costs productivity, and it has very, very high social costs. That is why it is a phenomenon that needs to be taken seriously, and that is something we need to focus on. The problem seems to be increasing, which is why the government has also chosen to set up a fast-working task force, which will present its report in the spring of 2015. The idea behind the task force is that it should be analyzed which control measures at all stages of the cable theft we have. This is true both when planning and implementing the theft, and when transporting and deploying the cables afterwards. The task force has been asked to take inspiration abroad and ultimately to come up with proposals for possible further action against cable theft, which we therefore agree with the proposers of this is a serious problem. It is the case that the penal code already contains rules on theft and rules on the disruption of relations. Theft is punishable by imprisonment for up to 1 year and 6 months, which can rise to up to 6 years when theft is particularly serious. In addition, extensive disruption of what is called communication can be punishable by fines or imprisonment for up to 6 years. So if a cable theft has had such consequences, it can be punished according to that provision. In other words, there are already six-year prison sentences in this area, as the proposers would like. I think that now that we have the penalties we have and there is the possibility of giving the long sentences, what we need to be concerned about is whether the rules are being applied or not, and that is one of them. Some of what the reduced task force has to look at. May I not just say in conclusion that I think it is quite right when the proposers focus on the fact that theft of cables is not only theft, but a disruption of everyday life in the capital, and that is why, of course, you have to strike down hard on it. Of course, we in the government are waiting for the task force that has been set up, and we will then come up with any new initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105703	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105707	I would like to thank you on the basis of these fine words, and it seems that we agree on the intention. What is of course the major problem is that today it is being punished under section 276, i.e. as simple theft, which means that these thieves, who are often foreigners, receive an average of 3-4 months in prison, and that means that we cannot send them to serve in the country of origin. After all, we think that it should have more consequences when we go in and influence so many people's everyday lives when they are on their way to work, and then they are stuck because cables have been stolen again. We can see that this is a lucrative market and that is why we want to close that gap. That is why I would just like to ask: when can we expect a legislative proposal to be ready to deal with the problems we are seeing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105800	Well, it is clear that when we set up a task force that works across several ministries, we must of course see their work and their proposals before we decide on the further process. But may I not just mention that in the four sentences on cable theft, which at least the Ministry of Justice is aware of as being finished, nine out of ten people have been expelled, since they had only a modest link with Denmark. So there is also expulsion in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105829	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105831	I think that was positive enough, but I am quite concerned when the Minister for Justice says that it should in several ministries, because often it will sound as if it is a jam jar, or at least it is something that will take a very long time. So I may hope that the Minister for Justice can give an indication that it is not a question of years at least, but that it could be a few months, so that we can quickly initiate initiatives that will ensure that we limit this and that it will have some proper consequences when you steal cables, which has such a great impact on real, very many Danes who cannot get to and from work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105909	Well then, I think we are in the happy situation that I can make the rapporteur happy, because it is a fast-working task force that will have to finish its work this spring, i.e. in 2015. Then, hopefully, there will be some recommendations on that basis, and the Folketing will be able to take a position on that in the next session if it requires legislative changes. And the authorities will be able to get on with it relatively quickly if it does not require legislation. Then we should not be so worried about the fact that it is more ministries. It is true that this is both a matter for the Ministry of Transport, which has to do with public transport, and the Ministry of Justice, which has to do with our community and system of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417105948	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110006	Thank you. I would like to start by stating that this is a very good resolution from the Conservatives. It's a big problem when, for a little profit, you've got a few crowns we're talking about going out and stealing cables with the result that the trains are holding still the next morning. But it disturbs thousands, not to say tens of thousands of citizens who are then late for work. It disrupts communication, and it is a problem that we need to address and prevent as best we can at all. Another element of the proposal is that foreign nationals who commit this kind of theft should be punished but served in their country of origin. With regard to the cable thefts in 2014, there were as many as 173 thefts. This caused the delay of 1,674 S-trains and, as I said, it affected tens of thousands of passengers. This is a serious matter for society as a whole, but certainly also for the individual who is affected by it. And the Conservatives have our full support for us to tighten up the penalty for this. It may well be that the penal framework is already in place, as the Minister of Justice pointed out, but I think it is important to send out a clear political signal that we will not tolerate this and that we should make greater use of the penal framework that exists, that this is an aggravating circumstance when it comes to disrupting public transport in this way. So it is in relation to sending the punished to their country of origin that when these aliens, and it is often offended aliens, come up here and steal these cables, part of them, when they are then punished, end up in Danish prisons where they fill up. And there we fully agree with what is in the proposal that these people should be sent home to their home country for serving. After all, there is already an arrangement on this in the EU system that has not yet been implemented, and there we think that the government should get speeded up so that we get these bilateral agreements in place so that, within the framework of the EU rules on serving in the country of origin, we have these people sent home. As soon as they get a verdict, they're going home to serve in their home country. I think it would have a preventive effect in itself if we were to serve in an Eastern European prison rather than in a Danish prison where conditions are undoubtedly a little more luxurious than they are in, for example. Eastern Europe. So we can also support that part of it. All in all, we think that this is a very good resolution which the Left can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110258	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110308	With this proposal, the authors of the proposal want to penalise more severely theft, which is causing disruption to the operation of trains and other means of transport. We Social Democrats fully agree that it is unacceptable for cable thieves to delay our public transport and thus ordinary Danes who are on their way to work, for family visits or on their way to pick up the children in kindergarten. We have to do everything we can to make life miserable for these cable thieves. Prevention is the very best tool, among other things. by removing the copper in the cables which is attractive to the criminals, but also by monitoring and ensuring access to, for example, track bodies. We all want these cable thefts not to occur at all. The Criminal Code already contains rules on theft and rules on the disruption of traffic, and both the value of the stolen and the extent of the disturbance can be taken into account in the calculation of the penalty. As the Minister of Justice mentioned, theft can be punished under section 276 of the Criminal Code with imprisonment for up to 1 year and 6 months, which can rise to up to 6 years when the theft is particularly serious. And that is exactly what Conservatives are proposing here, but which already exists. In addition, large-scale disruptions can be punishable by fines or imprisonment for up to six years, i.e. also a high penalty if the cable theft has had such consequences that it disrupts communication. But if more can be done to stop the cable thieves, more needs to be done, and this is also the reason why in December the government set up a fast-working task force against cable theft, consisting of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Justice, Banedanmark and the National Police. And it is the agreement that they should make their recommendations in spring 2015. This also makes it clear that we do not regard it as irrelevant that there are people who disturb our relations and that we do not regard it as irrelevant that there are cable thieves who in a totally unacceptable way disturb the daily lives of ordinary Danes. We Social Democrats therefore fully agree with the proposers that cable thieves and others who disrupt our public transport should be stopped preferably before carrying out their criminal business. However, we do not believe that we are stopping them by adopting a legislative proposal on a criminal framework that already exists today. In those words, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110556	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110600	The challenge today is precisely that cable theft is punished according to section 276, i.e. for simple theft, which means that you typically get less than 6 months. That makes it a lot a win-win for these thieves. They come here, and it is a win if they can take over the cables and sell them and sell them, but it is also a win if they are caught, because the punishment is not particularly hard, and you can serve in Danish prison, because you have no prospect of being sent home because it is less than six months old. That makes it very lucrative. I think it is a pity that the Social Democrats and the government are not going to do more to get rid of this, because it is a huge problem that there are so many Danes going to work who are affected and affected by the cable thefts once cables have been cut down again. When the Socialists then propose that you can fence the whole track body in Denmark, it will be quite imaginative, because it will not be possible at all. That would be an excessive cost. What is important is that we ensure that the punishment they are expecting is so severe that they simply fail to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110716	We Social Democrats are not afraid to punish, nor hard, and we are not afraid to raise the penalty framework. This is also why we have set up a task force to look at this problem and all the measures that can stop these in cable thieves. However, we do not consider it appropriate to adopt a resolution which does not have a significant impact on the framework of penalties that we already have today. It is already in the penal code today that you can be punished by up to six years. So we would very much like to look at the part that is about punishment, but it must have an effect and not just be something that is already in our penal code.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110749	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110752	Now it sounded like the Minister of Justice took this very seriously. A task force had been set up and it had to work, and then it had to be reported in the spring. Then I expressed my concern that it would then be something like that that would have to run back and forth between several ministries and that it would take a long time. From my experience of inter-ministerial cooperation, it is just that it will take a long time before anything comes back on our table. What you have to note is that the Minister of Justice said this task force was going to report in the spring. But you can see that the Minister for Justice has said in the past that it should be reported in April. So we can already see that it looks as if it is being delayed, and then there is not much to do as a citizen of this country thinking that there will be a good solution tomorrow or at least a quick solution that will benefit those who are hit by cable theft when they cannot actually get to and from their workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110844	Let me just make it clear that we all agree that this is a serious problem. Otherwise, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Transport wouldn't have set up this fast-working task force either. What is the difference is whether we are going to introduce a quick fix solution which perhaps smells more of symbolic policy, which is what has been proposed by conservatives with the proposal here today, or whether we are going to adopt solutions that work, that have a real effect and that limit cable theft. We Social Democrats are interested in this and that is why we want to wait that month for this task force to make their recommendations on what actually has an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110921	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417110932	Thank you for that, President. As has already been said, this is a highly topical issue which the Conservatives are raising here, because a theft which has such major social consequences should always result in the expulsion of Denmark if the offender is of foreign origin. That in itself should be a deterrent effect. The proposal is entirely in line with a similar proposal of which the Danish People's Party is co-author in May, namely B 148, and these are bomb threats that disrupt public transport. So the Danish People's Party is very much in favour of this proposal. A cable theft is far more serious than a common enrichment theft. It has far-reaching consequences for thousands of citizens and businesses when infrastructure stalls. It costs society a lot of money, so we are fully in favour of tightening it up. Unfortunately, we have seen an explosive increase in these cable thefts in both Denmark and other EU countries. Therefore, the Danish People's Party believes that on certain lines cameras should be set up for surveillance in order to be able to contain the thefts as well. One can then discuss whether an increase in the penalty has an effect or only a minor effect. Since the previous sentences are between four and five months, the maximum penalty is up to six years. I fear that the effect is poor, as it will be extremely rare for the maximum penalty to be applied. On the other hand, the Danish People's Party can see that minimum sentences of at least 6 months will have a much greater effect. In fact, the minimum sentence of six months allows all foreign nationals to and should be sentenced to expulsion while at the same time serving in their country of origin. So the Danish People's Party believes that we should have minimum sentences inscribed in the otherwise excellent resolution, so that you punish according to § 193, it triggers a minimum of 6 months' imprisonment and expulsion of the country and, above all, serving in the country of origin, as far as possible. And we also need to think about video surveillance on certain deserted railway lines. The Danish People's Party looks forward to the further political debate in the committee on minimum penalties and more video surveillance, and we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111159	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111206	Thank you for the floor, President. It is super annoying and frustrating for commuters when their trains are cancelled due to cable theft. That is why we in the government have set up a task force, as has been mentioned earlier. It's gonna have to look exactly at this problem. We set it up in December, after which Conservatives have put forward this proposal afterwards, and that is, of course, quite right. But we Radicals would like to wait for this work, in respect of the fact that there are actually authorities here and now analysing the whole situation about a cable theft and not just the penalty itself. After all, the penal code has already been designed in many ways today, so that it is an aggravating circumstance if a theft disturbs communication. So I think that these are in particular other tools we need to get to in order to avoid cable thefts. That is why we cannot support this proposal radically. Instead, we look forward to a more thorough proposal from the working group which is currently looking at cable thefts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111303	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111307	I am not surprised that the Radical Left does not think that a harsher punishment is the solution and that it does not seem to be a deterrent to some twenty to come here if there is in fact a punishment they feel and if they are returned. There are some interesting things coming out, and as a representative of the governing parties Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen could reply to me as to why the proposal for this task force has already been delayed, because it should have been presented in April, and now we heard the Socialist rapporteur say that at least another month will pass before it is presented. Then we will be in May, and I doubt that we have seen the last part of the jam jar, because frankly it smells like jam jar when you seem to see the process being delayed and then you push it. That would suggest that one has an interest in pushing this to after a choice, because one simply does not want to discuss what it is that is needed because one disagrees with the governing parties. You have a government party that says that harsher penalties have no problem with, and then you have the Radical Left, which says that they do not believe that harsher penalties are the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111417	I must be guilty of an answer. I am not exactly aware of the timetable for the working group currently in office. I hope they finish as soon as possible. I think we all do. There is nothing about us sitting in the government and, due to internal disagreements, delaying their work. I think that is very speculative.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111434	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111437	Then I have just one open question at the end, because I know that the Radical Left is also governed, or at least is inspired by incentives, that is to say the influence of behaviour. Thinks sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen not that you will think twice if you come to Denmark as a Romanian criminal, if you actually have the prospect that you will be sent back to serve and partly get a penalty, which is therefore more than just 3-4 months before you go out and cut cables? Because what is the problem today is that we see criminal foreigners who cut cables, because they are easily negotiable, and because there is not much consequence, and so the Danish side does not really choose to do anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111524	I have not been completely opposed to looking at the penalties or the like; I am just saying that I would like to have a well-worked proposal that does not focus solely on punishment and punishment and punishment, because, no, I do not think that the punishment is always the decisive thing. I do not always believe that you sit as a criminal and do a major comparative analysis of the various penal systems around Europe. And above all to the end of the matter of repatriation: we are therefore also in favour of this from the radical side, working to get more people sent home, and the government has also worked intensively on this. It makes sense, as it saves some Danish tax dollars, but it also makes it possible to move on more as a criminal with your life.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111606	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111614	Thank you. I am here on behalf of the SF legal rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Conservatives want to strengthen the penal framework for the theft of things that serve the operation of ordinary means of communication, including cable theft. The extent of cable thefts has been increasing rapidly in recent years. In 2012, there were 52 cases and in 2014 the figure increased to 173 cases where it affected 1,674 trains and cost a total of 5.4 million. kr. SF acknowledges that we in Denmark have a problem with cable theft, which is causing so much inconvenience to Danish rail passengers. In addition to the fact that the cable thieves delay the 350,000 passengers who travel by train daily, they also contribute to the cost of train tickets. In the SF we therefore agree that something needs to be done. And we also know that the problem is being taken seriously. Banedanmark gives priority to the fight against cable thieves, and with a number of initiatives they are in the process of reducing the amount of thefts. They have among other things: set up surveillance cameras on selected lines and are in the process of replacing the copper cables to the much less attractive aluminium cables. However, in addition to Banedanmark's initiatives, more needs to be done to stop this development. In the SF, however, we do not believe that higher penalties are the solution to the problem. Those who commit theft are typically not the hard core of criminals. It is therefore to be feared that a penal framework of as many as six years can help us to get criminals out of prisons that have become even more criminal than they were when they were convicted. After all, it is no secret that prisons can be a hatchery for harder crime, and therefore it will in no way benefit our society in the long term simply to raise the penalty framework. If the cable thieves are foreigners, the proposers propose that these foreign nationals be sentenced to unconditional expulsion and served in their country of origin. We can only find that reasonable when they come to Denmark to commit crime, but in reality it will be to discriminate, and we will oppose a principle of equality in which the punishment for foreign nationals will be much more intrusive than the punishment for Danish citizens. For these reasons, therefore, we cannot support the proposal. On the other hand, we in the SF believe that we should wait for the conclusions of the task force set up by the government at the end of 2014 to find solutions to combat cable theft. The report should come here this month, and hopefully they will come up with some useful analyses and get inspiration from abroad, which we can use to put right in the fight against cable theft. We would rather use the latest and best knowledge to solve the problem. The SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111854	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417111908	I would like to start by saying that the Enhedslisten cannot support this resolution either. So we agree with the intention and that the fact that so many cables are stolen from the Danish rail networks is a problem and that it is a problem because it is theft and it costs money, but it is also a problem because there are people who are actually bothered by it in their everyday lives when they go to and from work, for example. And that is why we would also like to commend the government for setting up the task force which, I hope, can come up with some new and wise proposals. Because it has to be said that there is not much new in the motion for a resolution from the right who believes that all problems with the threat of punishment can be solved. And if there is already punishment in relation to a problem, the right wing believes that it can be solved by raising the penalty, which is therefore not effective. It is perhaps also a little naive to think that people who come from countries in Eastern Europe and who live in poverty and live a criminal life stop committing crime because they are threatened with a little longer punishment. That is very rarely what has a real preventive effect, although the existence of punishment in itself, of course, has it somewhere. In addition, we in the Enhedslisten do not agree that stealing cables is as gross an offense as very, very serious violence or rape, for example. Is. And that is what conservatives want to increase the penalty for cable theft to, that is to say, the same level as some really serious personal crimes. So there is an imbalance in our penal code if we can and do start to increase the penalty, because there may have been a matter in the press that we would like to act decisively on. The Enhedslisten believes that we should examine whether the requirements for scrap dealers might be tightened up so that they have to demonstrate more that the copper they buy is not stolen. Because the reason some people are stealing cables is that they can sell them again and get paid for them. In addition, as I said, we are also looking forward to the outcome of the task force set up by the Minister of Transport. The Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417112159	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417112207	Thank you. I think we have all been annoyed when we have seen stories in the press that some had removed cables, which meant that quite ordinary people could not do their job, could not get away and that public traffic in this way was stopped. It is a bad thing, it is a bad thing, and we all expect that to be dealt with because we have occasionally caught those who have done so. That is why I would like to pay tribute to the Conservative People's Party for addressing the annoying problem that it is and where it is evident that a practice has been found which means that no significant punishment is imposed and which, at least, does not mean that it is quite easy as a result of sending them back to their country of origin for service. Because it would really be a punishment that mattered and that could prevent them from these repeated thefts of cables that disrupt public order if they knew they were going to a prison in a country to serve. We have sometimes seen the difference between Romanian prisons and Danish prisons. It is to be seen, and it alone would therefore probably discourage considerably more than so much else. That is why we would like to say from here that, when the government is sitting on its hands in this matter waiting for something that might come, perhaps not coming, yes, we are today supporting the Conservative motion for a resolution, B 91, for adoption here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417112355	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417112404	We have seen in recent years that cable theft is a very big problem in Denmark and for Danish rail passengers. In 2014 alone 173 cable thefts caused delays for the entire 1674 S-trains. And with 350,000 daily passengers in the S trains, it's something that bothers a lot of people who just do their job and their everyday life. This is an issue that we must address politically and where we need to take action. I must also say that last week we discussed a resolution by the bourgeois to reduce the time frame for sending foreigners to serve in their country of origin, from six months to one month and with a desire to send more people to serve in their country of origin. And that proposal from last week will, of course, also be relevant to cable thieves, who are often foreigners. But there is a very special problem with cable thieves. For although this is a very serious offence, in which thousands of citizens are delayed and the public traffic severely disrupted, cable theft is typically punished according to section 276 of the penal code, i.e. as simple theft. Then there is a paragraph that can be used about extensive disruption in the operation of ordinary means of communication, as it is called, which has a penalty of up to 6 years, but it is a paragraph that is often not applied. And so it is often free of charge for the thieves, because the punishment they can expect is not very great. The sentences we see today are typically about 4-5 months in prison, and it is not hard enough to take into account the social consequences. The gentle judgments also mean that, for example, when the thieves come from Romania, they must serve their punishment in this country. It's a win-win situation for the cable thieves, because if they get away with stealing the cables, they have a certain income by having them converted. Then they got away with it. And if they are actually taken, is there any prospect of less than 1⁄2 years in prison, to be served here in Denmark what's not to like? That is why we need to punish more severely here. Then I have noted that the government has set up a task force. That's really good, but it looks like that task force is about to be delayed. It was due to be reported in April. It won't. The next thing is that, according to the Socialist rapporteur, it will be reporting in May. It already smells like jam pots, and it is of course a pity for the people who are affected by the delays that happen when cables are stolen. Thank you for the debate. I would also like to thank you for the support of the blue parties that have brought it. I would also like to thank the Minister for Justice for his fine words. We look forward to a good solution if not tomorrow, so perhaps at some point. We would have preferred to have seen that solution today rather than tomorrow, because this is something that we must take seriously and that is of great importance to our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417112706	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate on this item is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417112734	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417112755	Often it is the case that when you as a minister start your speech on a motion for a resolution, you try to find the positive elements in order to promote good cooperation in the Folketing. I would like to depart entirely from that practice from the motion for a resolution here, and I would like to state to the four parties as clearly as I can that, of course, we will not vote in favour of this resolution at any time. On 14 and 15 February, Denmark was hit by the terror. Copenhagen was subjected to two violent assassinations at the Krudtønde and subsequently at the Jewish synagogue. It was two attacks that have changed Denmark. We have two victims who lost their lives and a number of injured policemen. The Danish police have chosen to run an elevated security alert in the post-terrorist attack period. I welcome that as the country's Minister of Justice. However, I would also like to make it very clear in this Chamber today that it costs a great deal of money to have effective protection against terrorism. We have presented a comprehensive plan of terror on the part of the government. In it there is also included to add more money to Danish police and our intelligence services here and now. We need a continued increase in police preparedness in, and around, our capital. We need to strengthen both Defense Intelligence and Police Intelligence. We need more bodyguards and more in the task force. We need more IT analysts, so we get a better overview of what's happening online. We want a well-functioning PNR system and I could go on like that. But before I get that far, I would also like to say that one of the things that concerns us most after the attack by the Jewish synagogue is that we ensure that our Jewish minorities in Denmark have the security and security they naturally deserve. It must never be the case in Denmark that a young Jewish girl cannot hold her confirmation, and we will not see a young Jewish man killed again because he takes care of others. Therefore, we need to strengthen the security of our Jewish locations with both preparedness and presence of Danish police, but also by ensuring that the physical framework is improved. Why this long introduction? Because, of course, it is not a joke that we have tabled an act on the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee. We do, because we need money here and now to strengthen police preparedness and get started with the physical security of our Jewish minorities. But we cannot adopt that act, and I see it as nothing more than ordinary political teasing from some of the parties of the Folketing, that a process is being delayed, the result of which I dare to predict. Because once we have spent time on all this, I wonder if it will end with all the parties in the Folketing voting for the act anyway. For there are surely no parties in the Danish Parliament that do not want to secure our Danish Jews and do not want to contribute to a proper economy for the Danish police. Therefore, it is here to drag one of the most important social issues right now into delay, and I must be honest and say that it does not suit the Danish Parliament. We're gonna have to pass the file. As the country's Minister of Justice, I can say very clearly that the Danish police need the money, and I can also say on behalf of the whole of Danish society that the Jewish minority needs the resources to get started with the physical security of the Jewish sites. Then I hear in the debate that various sides are concerned that increased police preparedness should not affect other tasks of the police. That is a point of view that I understand and, incidentally, share. I would like to start by saying that it is clear when terrorism hits Copenhagen that it will have a secondary impact on the Danish police. When we have so many police officers on the street, when we continue to have a large and difficult investigation, when we continue to have a high level of protection, among other things. about our Jews, yes, it will of course pull out teeth in the rest of the Danish police. However, it is precisely in order that we should not, as far as possible, go beyond other police tasks that we need to adopt the act of Parliament's Finance Committee. I understand very much that, with an election campaign around the corner, the political parties must mark themselves, and everyone needs a place to occupy when it comes to terrorism. We can take all the discussions we want, but may I urge the Danish Parliament to move forward with this process soon, so that we can release the necessary resources to secure our Jewish institutions, including the Caroline School and the Synagogue, and so that I can look the Danes in the eye and ensure that there is a continued high level of police preparedness. Therefore, Danish police need more money here and now. We are, of course, voting against this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113328	There are a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113334	Thanks to the Minister for Justice for the rejection you should say thank you, even if it is a rejection. But that is not something we are happy about; that is what I would like to say. There is, of course, cause for concern, because the reason why we are taking this debate down to the Assembly is that we are in a situation in which the increased level of terrorist preparedness and the bill that lies are not being financed and where the resources to carry out the task of guarding, as a result of the aftermath of the terrorist attack, are being taken from other tasks, and they will also be with the record that lies. My question to the Minister for Justice is: can the Minister of Justice not confirm (1) that the record is partly financed by savings in the police and (2) that the whole bill is not collected by overtime, because there will be other tasks in the police that will be downgraded as a result of the terrorist attack and the huge amount of work that the police may undertake in this regard. And doesn't the Minister think it would be right to take that bill away from the police so that the effort doesn't go beyond the other fight against crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113447	1) Of course, with a terrorist attack on Copenhagen, it will have some secondary negative consequences for the other Danish police. We simply needed to call quite a lot of staff and preparedness for Copenhagen. 2) In order to mitigate the negative, derived natural consequences for the fight against other crime, it is precisely necessary to say yes to the document, so that we can have more funds released. 3) We have made it very clear from the government that if a situation arises where Danish police need more resources, then we are willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113518	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113521	Then I just don't understand why the Minister doesn't want to look at those resources together with a majority in the Folketing now. We in the Left have declared ourselves willing to find the means, but it must, of course, be financed. I'd like to ask the Minister for Justice when the Secretary of Defense can find 400 million. kr. to finance the defence and FE part of the terrorist package, why doesn't the Minister of Justice and the government want to do the same on police territory? If the Minister of Justice did what the Secretary of Defense did, we wouldn't have this debate. Then we had a terrorist package. Then we'd have done this job in the police. But that presupposes that funding can be found. You could do that at the Department of Defense. Apparently, the government could or will not do so in the field of the police. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113603	Of course we can find funding. The act put forward by the Parliamentary Finance Committee is, of course, financed, partly by savings in the police, but for most of the resources, by the reserves we have on our Finance Act. It's funded. Then there will be expenditure in the years to come, and we have very clearly indicated by the government that we want to find that money when a new multi-annual agreement is to be drawn up. Of course the money has to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113631	Sir. Peter Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113635	Thank you. There has been discussion as to whether it was even necessary to have the debate here today in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I think that, with the Minister's introductory comments, we are already getting visibility, which is why this is an important debate. In fact, the Minister says quite surprisingly that it will, of course, go beyond the rest of Denmark's police work. That is precisely what we wanted to get into dialogue with the government, which is why I would like to ask the Minister something. Instead of a headline that says that it will of course go beyond the rest of the police work, can the Minister not tell the Folketing to what extent and where it is going to be a decrease in the ordinary crime-fighting work in the rest of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113725	There are several things to say about this. After all, we have chosen to run Danish politics in a way that there is room when special situations arise, so that Danish police can handle the task. It covers part of it, you might say, extra task that is incumbent on the Danish police right now. Any politician who wants to stand on the platform of the Danish Parliament and say that there can be a terrorist attack in Denmark without the consequences for the other police, would lie. Of course it has. The hectic period immediately after the terrorist attack, where we call in personnel from many parts of Denmark, obviously has some costs. But it is precisely to mitigate them, and it is precisely to ensure that we do not have to relax our fight against drugs, our fight against gangs and bikers, our fight against juvenile crime, the fight against aliens, that we want more resources to be allocated to the Danish police here and now. I do not wish to deny that there may be a need for additional resources, but then let us take the discussion at the time, there is nothing in what is preventing the opposition from voting in favour of the act.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113836	Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113837	Well, we have a situation in which the Folketing has to make a decision without knowing the extent of the problem, and I find it strange that the government is both angry and outraged that the Folketing is asking for a statement which, moreover, does not come, although a majority in the Danish Parliament has asked for it, that the Minister considers it totally unacceptable that we should ask what the specific challenge is really for the Danish police as a result of the terrorist attack and start the debate today by saying: yes, of course it has consequences. So I ask quite peacefully: what is the extent of the consequences? Where is it in Denmark that you will not be able to see the police perform the ordinary tasks? What really is the answer? I would like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417113923	Well, I'd like to say to sir. Peter Christensen, that it is of course a dynamic size, because no one in Danish politics will be able to predict how long we will have to run with an increased security alert. What the Danish police do, which is wise and professionally based, is to consider the situation day by day, and as long as there is a need for increased preparedness, more resources are needed. But the Left forgets to answer why we are not just voting in favour of this act, and then we can table a motion for a resolution to add more money. You can do that. But there is nothing in the long-term discussion that should prevent anyone from adopting the act, because the thing is that while we are talking, Danish police lack money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114004	Sir. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114009	I would like to ask the Minister for Justice to confirm the figures for spending funds when there was a climate summit in Copenhagen. It was then the case that an act was made in the Folketing in connection with it, and it was in 2009, when the police were added 615 million. kr. Can the Minister confirm that? Can the Minister also confirm that only in the period from 14 February, when the terrorist attack took place in Copenhagen, until 3 March, the total additional costs were only for salaries of 27 million. kr. For the police? Can the Minister confirm that figure and can the Minister tell the Danish Parliament what that figure is today? Because now it's been 1⁄2 more months since that number was up to date. That is a very high figure, and I assume the Minister agrees with it. Can we get an answer to what that number is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114106	I can confirm that it cost a lot of money to hold a climate summit as far as the Danish police are concerned, and that it costs a lot of money to have a readiness like what we are seeing here now. The very specific figure up to today's date I shall be allowed to reply in writing, because we must ensure that it is rounded up in the correct way. But can the Danish People's Party, when I have the floor, confirm that, as things stand right now, it is not that I think we owe it to those who listen to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114137	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114139	Of course, the Danish People's Party will vote for any grant of more money to the police. But what we are discussing today is, of course, whether the appropriation proposed by the government is enough. When I stand here with a reply from the Minister saying that the consumption up to 3 May because of the terrorist attack was 27 million. kr. I ask the Minister whether that figure is probably considerably higher, and the Minister will not reply to that in the Danish Parliament, but we will get the answer in writing. This is a very good example of the fact that the government has to provide the exact figures for what this costs and when you only want to give 80 million. kr. extra in new money, it's not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114224	We can have all the political disagreements we want, but it is not fair to say that the government does not answer questions when, as Mr. Peter Skaarup has both sat at the negotiating table in the Ministry of Justice, received answers to all the questions that Peter Skaarup has asked, and subsequently asked questions in the Parliament's Finance Committee and has received answers to all the questions that have been asked. The answers are given. But what we are discussing today is the action that is being taken to provide more resources for the Danish police and for the Jewish minority in terms of physical security of the sites. The situation right now is that the Danish People's Party does not
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114303	Mrs Mai Mercado for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114307	This is of course a very interesting one, because the Minister says very clearly that with the framework laid out, it cannot be guaranteed that we will deal with the requests that are important to our citizens. For example, it could be a burglary, it could also be shoplifting. When you choose not to allocate more funds to, for example, more cops, 500 fewer cops have arrived since 2011 and this can ultimately mean that citizens no longer have confidence in our police. And there I just think it's very violent that the Justice Minister chooses to gamble with the whole view of our police. We see a chairman of the Police Union who says this morning that even the appropriation that the government is putting forward is by no means enough to ensure that one can do one's job and at the same time secure Denmark against terrorism. So does the Minister of Justice think we're gonna have a fall in police service? That must be what ends up being the consequence when, as a citizen, you can no longer get the police to burglars or you see down at the store that the police don't come if there's a burglar or shoplifter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114417	In fact, this question is extremely interesting, because I have to say that the room where I have the slightest confidence in Danish police is in the Assembly hall. It is precisely the opposite that I am experiencing among the Danish population. As recently as today, former Commander Lexner in a reading post in Berlingske Tidende has thanked the Danish police for the efforts they are making, among other things. in Krystalgade around the synagogue. Everywhere I come as the country's Minister of Justice, there is great support from the Danish people for a Danish police force that has shown its strength, wisdom, commitment and empathy in connection with a terrorist attack. The place in Denmark where I experience least confidence in Danish police is in the Assembly Hall and from a bourgeois opposition it is not from the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114457	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114501	I see the government is a long way from the people in this. It is as if you are in a cheese bell that you do not really want to get out of, because the fact is that, after a very serious terrorist attack in Denmark, you are asking the police themselves to finance a large part of the bill that lies there. And then I just have to say that we, on our side, have always insisted that we want to give more money. We have said openly, both at the negotiating table and in all sorts of other places where we could get to it, that we would like to have a debate and look at other areas where we could get the necessary funding. It has to be said that the government has not been willing to look at anything outside the police area. For the government, it is obviously important that it is the police officers who are very much funding this terrorist package, and it is not fair to the police officers who go to work every day and do everything they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114552	However, it is not reasonable, as it were, that there should be direct falsehoods in the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. In all respect to the Conservative rapporteur: we propose an additional allocation of 100 million. kr. from the general reserves on the Finance Act and then 50 million. kr. that we take from the savings from the police. This means that the vast majority of the funds we want to provide for increased terrorist preparedness come from the Finance Act and therefore not from the Danish police. So let's get the facts straight. Perhaps the slightly aggressive tone of some of the rapporteurs is due to the fact that you may in fact have a bad case in this discussion. We need an increased response to terrorism. We're willing to dedicate the money. All we need is a blue opposition which, like the SF and Enhedslisten, makes sure that this money is put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114639	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114643	Because this is a very confusing debate, I don't even really know where to stand anymore, because I can't figure out what's going on if I'm to be honest. I would like to start by saying that I find it interesting that the Conservative rapporteur believes that a union president has more control over what is needed in the police than the management of the police themselves. That's all I'm gonna say. Fun things are happening today, there are. Then I'm gonna ask the Minister for Justice, because we heard from Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup, that what we were discussing today was whether that was enough: can the Minister confirm that what we are discussing today is whether the appropriations that are going through the Finance Act should be stopped so that they are zero, or indeed they should have some money in the police to protect the Jewish minority and to ensure that the police can actually get paid overtime so that it stops going beyond the ordinary police work that there has been a terrible attack in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114744	That is absolutely correct. What we are discussing in the Parliamentary Chamber today is whether or not the document, tabled by the government, can be adopted. And we are now and it is in all due respect to Enhedslisten that I say this here in the rather remarkable situation that it is Enhedslisten and SF who have clearly and unequivocally stated that they want to allocate more money to Danish police for the Danish terrorist preparedness and for the protection of Danish Jews against an overall blue, bourgeois opposition that does not want to support the act in question. I do not think it is because Enhedslisten has fundamentally changed his view of the Danish police. I think it is because of course one can see from Enhedslisten and SF that Danish police need more resources in a really difficult situation for Danish society and for our Danish Jews.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114831	Sir. Martin Geertsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114834	If the Minister of Justice hears an aggressive tone, it may be because what we have to listen to is strong cases. As recently as a conciliation meeting in September, we asked the then Minister for Justice: Is it the case that PET has a complete record of Jewish security? Yeah, that's the answer. Do the police need more resources? No, that's the answer. So it's not us who have been difficult to pull to the trough. In this context, it has been the government. May I not ask the Minister for Justice two questions, and I would like to continue in the trade union trail, I would say to Mrs Pernille Skipper. What comments and what attitude does the Minister of Justice have about Claus Oxfeldt saying this morning on TV 2 News that there is a need for a long-term solution? That is one question. The second question is: will the action that is also under discussion today guarantee the safety of the Jews in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417114930	Let me begin by replying in the order in which the questioner asks. I agree with Oxfeldt that this requires a long-term solution. After all, the government has tried to put this into place through the negotiating table. This was not wanted in the bourgeois opposition. When this is not possible, we go to model B, and that is to have money set aside here and now, and then we expect to make a good multi-year agreement in the autumn. Can we guarantee the safety of the Jews? To that I would say that none of us can unfortunately do so. And the most unhappy thing about this is that in Europe we are once again in a situation where the Jews of Europe are in danger. But what we can do is to make as much effort as possible with the physical protection that is why we want to ensure, among other things. The synagogue and Caroline School were better equipped with a strong police response and, of course, our intelligence work. Unfortunately, no one can guarantee anything for anyone, but we can make an effort and we can ensure a high level of preparedness, and that is what we want. I don't think we disagree on that, and all the more so it was perhaps time to get away from this discussion and then make things work out in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115033	Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115035	Yes, but if it is the case that the Minister for Justice has listened to what the trade unionist said on TV 2 News this morning, then it is all the more surprising that the government will not actively go in and also put a penny on the things that we can actually agree on. Because I do not think that Claus Oxfeldt thinks that we should just take initiatives; I think that he will be concerned about getting a few dollars and an ear on it and getting an economic foundation. What puzzles me is why we cannot also take that discussion now and agree together on how we should ensure that, in view of the situation we now have in general in relation to terrorism, there are no other areas of police suffering. I still don't get it, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115119	But we can easily take that discussion. We can take the whole discussion about the future Danish police. What are the consequences of a terrorist attack in the heart of Copenhagen? What does that mean for our intelligence work? What does that mean for our bodyguard service? What does that mean for our Action Force? What does this mean for our ability to cooperate with other countries' secret services? What does it mean in relation to the importance of Europol and the fact that we will have the Danish legal reservation terminated? We can take all the discussions that the opposition wants, but there are none of the discussions that should block the fact that we will soon be voting in favour of the Danish police being given more resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115202	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we go to the rapporteur's line and the first is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115219	The Left, together with the other bourgeois parties, will block the adoption of Act 108 and thus allocate 100 million. kr. extra to the police in connection with the maintenance of Terror alert. I'm puzzled. Why will the Left not help to create financial security for our police? Why is the Left more interested in playing election and political mud throwing than in ensuring security for the Danes? I look forward to receiving clear answers to those questions from the Left here today. When the terrible terrorist attack hit Denmark, it had to be understood on the Left that the party was interested in an interpolitical agreement and responsible political action. At any rate, on TV 2 on February 18, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says the following: I think there is a need for Christiansborg to give the promise to our police and intelligence services as widely as possible, which makes us Danes feel a little more secure. Apparently it was completely empty words, for there was no desire on the Left to give the police a quick boost. And the party's legal rapporteur, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, was ready with promises of cooperation and responsibility, and I quote: this is a joint task for the people's regime, which we must now stand together on a political basis. We must ensure that Denmark tomorrow is as safe as it is now. We must ensure for the people that fear of terrorism does not change our lives and our security. Come on! Come on! Well, obviously not when the bill is due. Our skilled police did a great job during the terrorist attack in February. Just as they have subsequently played a key role in maintaining preparedness. Anything at all! The proposal put forward by the bourgeois parties here today does just the opposite. It creates uncertainty, and it creates uncertainty. I have to admit that I could not imagine in my wildest imagination that a party that carries government dreams, the Left, could show such irresponsibility on such an important issue. First, the party blocked the agreement on the future of terrorist preparedness, and now with the slowing down of the economy to the existing preparedness. The fact is that the record we are discussing here today is based on the recommendations of our police and intelligence services, and it has been made clear to the parties that it is the police's opinion that it is the amount on the record that will ensure the maintenance of increased terrorist preparedness and increased security for our Jewish society. The fact is also that the Left and the other bourgeois parties have had the opportunity to ask all the questions they wanted for both security and funding. It's been asked, and there's a big answer. But regardless of the amount of answers, it has not been able to satisfy the Left. Left leader, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has used every possible excuse for why he and the other opposition cannot support our strengthened police efforts and the fight against terror. Too much, too little, too long, too little time, too little answer, too many answers, it is just a small selection of the attitude that the opposition leader has put forward. There remains a clear message from the Left. It's so clear, so it's blinking in the neon. For the Left, this is not about taking security for the Danes. It's about campaigning. It is about the fact that the Left, with their zero growth, cannot afford to give our police more money. We are left here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where a majority of the parties SF and Enhedslisten and the government want to give more money to the police so that we have the right protection against terror and so that we can ensure proper conditions for our officers. A majority of parties want to give more money to protect our Jewish community, but the Left will not help to finance the fight against terrorism. The Danish People's Party will not pay the fight against terror. Conservatives will not devote money to the fight against terrorism. Nor will the Liberal Alliance secure the necessary means in the fight against this evil. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Denmark! The behaviour we see from the bourgeois side here today is not only a pity for our democracy, and it is also a poor behaviour towards our police. In these words, we Socialists cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115717	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115720	I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur what the Socialists think about the fact that the police union leader Claus Oxfeldt has said this morning that a long-term plan is needed on how to finance police action here and that more police officers are needed. Does Mrs Trine Bramsen really think that these lousy new 80 million? kr., as the case may be, in some way honours the desire of the police union, i.e. All the policemen's spokesmen? I find it deeply worrying that the government believes that it has done its job well enough when all you want is to lift a very, very small part of the effort that needs to be made in connection with the terrorist attack. I asked here earlier during the debate the minister did not reply • how much money has been spent up to date only for pay in connection with the terrorist attack. 27 million kr. Firstly, it was a little over the week, but now it is a much higher amount, and what the government has put forward cannot finance it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115835	I fully agree with Claus Oxfeldt that a long-term plan is needed in the fight against terrorism, and that is also why I am so incredibly sorry that the Danish People's Party left the negotiations and would not help to pay the bill that it costs to make a long-term plan for counter-terrorism. I also fully agree that our officers must have security here and now, and that is why I do not understand why the Danish People's Party is delaying the funding to secure the economy for our officers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115904	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115907	There was no answer from Mrs Trine Bramssen either. But I can give you the answer because it was 27 million. kr. in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the first week of wage spending to the police on the basis of the terrorist attack, and if you just multiply it up, we are well above the amount of spending now that the government is putting forward in this piece of new money. In addition, the police consider that this effort should run until 1 September. This means that Claus Oxfeldt is quite right in saying that what comes from the government here is not a long-term solution, and that is why we need an act that really provides the long-term solution, also economically.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417115953	I do not understand the arguments of the Danish People's Party at all. Sir. Peter Skaarup is dissatisfied with the fact that not enough money is given to the officers, and that is why Mr. Peter Skaarup no money at all to give. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120008	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120010	Thank you. I really think that Mrs Trine Bramsen's speech as rapporteur speaks for herself, and I think it was basically rather irresponsible. But the only thing I want to comment on in it is that I can clearly say that we in the Left have never said that too many answers have come, never. But we have talked about the quality of the answers that have been received and that there has not been an answer to the things we wanted to know, for example. what the total bill is and if you pick it up. Our fears, as well as those of the Police Union, if you are to believe their federal president, are that only parts of the bill are picked up. Well, leave it alone. I would like to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen a professional question. It is purely information to the people, colleagues, those who may follow out there and that is whether Mrs Trine Bramsen cannot confirm that if you read the record, page 2, fourth paragraph, it says that 50 million. kr. of the money that Mrs Trine Bramsen's party will use to lift, among other things. The cost of the terrorist attack comes from an uncontaminated savings in the police sector. Can the rapporteur confirm that the 50 million? kr. So come from the police's own ranks of savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120125	There is one party that is deeply irresponsible here today, and it is the Left that refuses to vote in favour of a proposal on the money to ensure that our officers can continue to fight terrorism out there on the streets. There is one party that is untrue today, together with the other opposition. It is true that the police themselves must contribute to the financing of this bill. It is precisely money that is earmarked for such unforeseen expenditure. But it remains to be seen that we are discussing today that we should allocate 100 million. kr. extra, new money for the police, and that's what the Left is stalling right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120156	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120158	Fearing that Mrs Trine Bramsen, in total disenchantment of having a serious question, concludes that it is all against Mrs Trine Bramsen or the Social Democratic Party that is frivolous, I would like to ask another question, and that is the same again: is Mrs Trine Bramsen not able to confirm that it is on page 2, so it should not be so difficult to have the 50 million? kr. is money that comes from the police. And, of course, we can say that these are uncontaminated funds, but they are, of course, means that we could politically decide to use to combat burglar crime, bicker crime or something else. Can Mrs Trine Bramssen not confirm that 50 million? kr. of the money you drop off is not new money, but is money that comes from the police and could have been used for something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120236	Well, it's a little remarkable, since it's on page 2, that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen has a need to verify it. Yes, it is true that the police have funds which have just been set aside for such unforeseen costs. On top of the 100 million. kr., which we are discussing here today, and which must be given extra to the police, there is the correct money that the police have already allocated to this kind of action, and it makes sense that they are using it in this context too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120304	Mrs Mai Mercado for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120309	I think this is quite remarkable, because the government knows very well that during the course of the negotiations there has been a single opposition which would like to go further, which would like to look at other resorts to see if you could find some money so that you could add more money rather than allow the police to pay for themselves. We could hear this morning from the President of the Police Union that he is quite worried about what they are leaving the police officers with. I can understand that, because when you ask the police themselves to pay a large part of the bill for there having been a terrorist attack in Denmark, I do not really think that you are an adult. We should then have sought a broad majority and looked at how to raise extra money to give priority, so that there were the means to deal with both this terrorist package and the police agreement we are going to negotiate in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120407	What we are discussing here today is just extra money. What Conservatives are trying to delay is 100 million. kr. extra, that is to say new money, for the police, and we just have to remember that this is what Conservatives today, with this motion for a resolution, are not going to do to the police. I think it's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120426	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120429	That is a lie, because we have always said that we really want to help find new money, and the rapporteur knows that very well. What we have quite a serious problem with is precisely the millions and the big move that is going to be on the police force. And the Minister for Justice himself said today that she cannot guarantee that the police will be able to carry out their duties for the benefit of the citizens, so we risk that the police will not go out to burglary, shoplifting and other things because they are engaged in a large number of other tasks. Well, then I just have to insist that feeding the dog with its own tail has never worked. Basically, we are just saying in all silence today that we really want to make a joint effort in this terrorist package, but it must not be the police who come and have to pay as much of the bill as the government would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120523	I think it is remarkable that Conservatives are today questioning the police's recommendation to us politicians. It is the police's recommendation that the $100 million be set aside. kr. extra to cover the expenses incurred in connection with the terrorist preparedness. I think it is reasonable, now that some funds for unforeseen expenditure have been set aside in a conciliation group, that they should then be included as planned. I find it very difficult to see what the conservative argument should be to block the 100 million. kr. extra to the police. That's what Conservatives do here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120559	Sir. Peter Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120601	If Mrs Trine Bramsen were to use some of her scarce energy to listen rather than to speak so quickly, then it would be possible to hear that the Minister for Justice actually replied that the ordinary police work would suffer. That was the Minister for Justice's introduction to today's debate. I would really like to hear what reflections this may give on the part of the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120639	I believe that everyone who sits here in the Folketing is extremely saddened that it is necessary to prioritise so many of the police's resources for terrorist preparedness. I don't think there's a single person sitting here who wouldn't want to be without it. But the question remains that today's debate is about giving 100 million. kr. extra, new money, to the police, and that is what the Left is stalling with its proposal that we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120707	Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120710	In the Left, we do not know what kind of police work this is that will not be possible in the whole country, because we have not been able to get an answer to that. We're worried about that. I would like to know whether the Social Democrats accept that there is a great deal of police work that is not being done. There are a number of citizens who do not get the help they are entitled to. And I would like to know whether the Social Democrats know the extent of that problem or whether they really do not care, because, by the way, it is nonsense when the rapporteur says that we do not want to give money to the police. It's been a long time since we said that the sum that's in this act we'd like to grant, but we're very unsure if that's enough. Does the Social Democratic Party consider that it is entirely subordinate to the extent to which ordinary police work is not carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120813	I think that the Minister for Justice answered that part very well, and it is clear that we Social Democrats are extremely concerned about ensuring the safety of the Danes. That is also why we are satisfied that the number of burglars is going down, there is less violence and so on, but we just have to remember what we are discussing here today. We are discussing how we can provide the police with financial security by allocating 100 million. kr. That's what the Left is stalling. Then we can have a long academic discussion that the Left would have liked to have seen more money. We also want a money tree for Christmas, but here and now we are discussing that we should allocate 100 million. kr. extra to the police. Why does the Left say no to that? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120854	Sir. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment. No. He asked. I'm sorry. But he was on my list of speakers. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we go to the radical rapporteur, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen. No. It's sir. Peter Skaarup as rapporteur, who is now to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417120939	Thank you. This is a rather funny debate, because when you ask questions about the things that you could imagine the representatives of the government, the minister and the rapporteur, could answer, there is no real answer to that. We hope then to be able to get those answers in writing. It is not unknown that we are debating this matter and that it is important. But that's it. But let me start by saying that there is something we all agree on in this debate. It is that there is an obvious need for stronger action against terrorism. Better preparedness is needed. Better prevention is needed for some to commit terrorism in Denmark. What we will then be discussing today is an increased appropriation for the police and the police intelligence service. And then there is also an obvious need to secure the Jewish community better, because unfortunately it has shown not only in Denmark but elsewhere in Europe that the Jewish community stands for shots and that there are malicious forces that will attack the Jewish community because they are Jews. Those things, by their very nature, cost money. We have to find that money, and I think we agree on that. That is why I find it disappointing and worrying that the government has chosen to suspend negotiations on a comprehensive plan for financing the fight against terrorism. It's unusual, it's weird. On top of the terrorist attack, where we should all stand together to distance ourselves from what has happened, the government has so blundered, been amateurish and has recently refused to answer relevant questions here in the Folketing. The reason we are concerned is, of course, not least that the Act 108 of the Government, which we are discussing today, in no way provides an answer to how to ensure the financing of the reinforced effort that we agree is necessary. I guess it's funding that can ensure that it doesn't affect the daily work of the police. Because after the act has been dealt with in the Parliament's Finance Committee, it is clear that we have a number of unanswered questions to which the government is not helpful in providing answers. I find that regrettable. Among other things: there is the question of how we ensure that it is not really the police themselves that will be very much funding the increased effort. This means that the dog will really be fed with its own tail, and that is what is in the government's act. What are you like, for example? I think it is a good idea for us to have a budget of 20 million. kr. to provide better protection for Jewish society? Such questions are essential, but remain unanswered, and the government is sitting on its hands. It has presented an act, and that is something we should vote for, and then we cannot debate it anymore, apparently. What is needed is a comprehensive plan for financing the anti-terrorist action, which is why the government should withdraw this act and instead present the overall plan so that the whole parliament can sit around a table and agree on what needs to be done. There is no point in separating certain parties that you do not want to talk to. In the policy debates, the Enhedslisten is not included, the Liberal Alliance is not included. In the prison negotiations, the Danish People's Party and the Left are not included. Why does the government not gather all parties around a table and find the necessary solutions for everything? It would have dressed a government and a prime minister saying that she would like to be prime minister for the whole of Denmark, for the entire Danish population. It is a pity that you are creeping in shelter and like standing up here and making a little boring adjectives about other parties instead of pulling the work clothes. It would suit the government that it did it. Then there is the whole question of how the citizens operate the police around the country. After all, we have heard from the police union that what is happening at the moment is that hundreds of people are being dragged to Copenhagen, so that you do not have enough officers on Funen and the rest of Zealand. When there is a public meeting at Bornholm in not so long, it is Nordjylland that will pay with many officers. This means that the service is thinned down, that in every area of business you will experience a worse police force that is unable to handle the tasks that citizens expect. So what's the government's answer? An action has been put forward. I would like and really hope that the Minister of Justice and the Government will come forward here and present an action on behalf of all the parties of the Folketing, where we agree to provide the adequate funds that are needed. It would suit the government, and I hope the government will think twice about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121516	There are a number of brief comments, so I would ask for two things: firstly, that we keep to the speaking time and, secondly, that we press ahead if we want to have the floor. First, it's Mrs. Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121527	Thank you. In fact, I did not hear any argument that the Danish People's Party, with its proposal here today, would withdraw the file on the 100 million. kr. extra to the police back. But my question is whether the rapporteur can confirm that the 100 million. kr. on the balance sheet of EUR 100 million; kr. extra to the police is the police's assessment of how much it takes to maintain proper preparedness against terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121553	Well, in many cases, where there are authorities referring to a minister or a government, it is of course the case that such authorities often say what the government thinks is the right thing to say. And that is why there is no doubt that the police leadership, with the messages that have come from the government, has said: that is what needs to be done now. But you go out and talk to cops on the street; you go out and talk to the cops' union; if you see the e-mails we get from citizens who find that the police are not present, yes, the only thing you might still be in full attendance with, are these photocars that have to scratch money in, then you know that everything else is so much downgraded at the moment, and that's what the police union says. I cannot understand why the Socialists, who have a tradition of working closely with the trade union movement, have now perhaps been broken up a little lately not listening to what the police union says to us in here at Christiansborg. Are we now disagreeing with the trade union movement, in other words because there have been some disputes, that we are no longer listening to what is being put forward by wise arguments, perhaps?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121706	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121707	So I just have to understand: does the Danish People's Party's rapporteur stand on the platform here in the Danish Parliament saying that he does not trust the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121716	I trust the police so much. But I am also, as I really hope all the members of the Folketing are, able sometimes to be the devil's lawyer on the information we get in. And it is a well-known fact that ministers do not always give in to the information they receive; we have seen that in one case after another. Having said that, I have to say that I am listening so much to what the representative of the police staff says about the representative who is experiencing and is sorry that at the moment many citizens on Funen, on Zealand, have to be disappointed because they do not have enough staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121756	Mrs Camilla Hersom for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121800	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that a rapid boost to the police and intelligence services is essential?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121815	Indeed, and I have also said on behalf of the Danish People's Party that the Danish People's Party will not vote against more money for the police. At the same time, however, I think that the Radicals, who are often and often a factual party, should sit down and analyse whether enough money has been given. I have tried to get the Minister to deal with the figures, but apparently that is not possible. If we look at the figures, we can see that for just over the first week, 27 million were spent. kr. on the pay alone to policemen on the basis of the terrorist attack. You don't have to think very long and have quite good arithmetic skills to find out where we are on 1 September this year compared to that consumption. That is why I say to the Radicals and to the government: this amount of 80 million. kr. kr. For the safety of the Jews, that is not what the police union says. It's not gonna last, it's not gonna last.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121914	Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121921	Well, the resolution we are debating today and supported by the Danish People's Party will, of course, eliminate the possibility of adding extra funds to the police. That's what's so grotesque about this case. So will the Danish People's Party not just confirm that the resolution will take longer than necessary before the police can obtain additional funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417121948	I must say, then, that I did not object to a few more days if the Prime Minister lived up to what the Prime Minister said after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, namely that we must stand together against terrorism, that we must fight terrorism at all levels. It is important that all parties also stand together here in the Folketing, I think, on a broad basis, and there we see a Minister of Justice inviting us to negotiations, and there are also answers to some of the questions when you ask many times. That's right. But we are also seeing a Minister of Justice who, on behalf of the government, suddenly announces to the press without telling the rest of us that the negotiations have now broken down and then we cannot get through with the wishes we have. It's not right, it's amateurish, it's not professional.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122032	Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122034	Thank you. Can the rapporteur not confirm that there is a proposal on the table to give extra money, necessary money, to the police? What we are discussing today is to remove that proposal and further delay that appropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122053	What I can confirm is that our proposals and hopes for the government, as I have said a few times, are that we come to the parties of the Folketing with a fully calculated model, where we can also tell how much money is needed in the longer term and that we give that money and finance it. That is what is needed. It is true that what is on the table from the government is a small step in the right direction, and we will also be supporting it if there are no other options. But I think it would suit the government to think longer-term when we are in the situation we are in after the terrorist attack, where there can be new terrorist attacks against Denmark. We do not know that, but it is certainly an opportunity, because there are some who believe that the terrorist is a hero. That is why I think it is important for the government to think a little more long-term than to think in something that has already been overtaken by reality. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122146	Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122148	It is very noble, but what the rapporteur is saying is a whole series of words which, while they are being said, only contribute to a longer period of time for the police to be reassured about their financial framework. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that it would be good for the preparedness of the whole country, even outside Copenhagen, to have this extra money sent to the police as soon as possible to work for the safety and security of all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122215	I don't think it's gonna affect the preparedness, whether this money comes one day or the other. So, the police have a task that is about securing first and foremost Copenhagen, but also the rest of Denmark, against terrorism, and therefore they choose to send hundreds of police officers to Copenhagen for the next few months until 1 September. That's what we know. It costs a lot of money, and it's something the police are able to handle. The number of security vests that have already been purchased can be read in today's newspaper. So I am sure that this will work in the short term, but what is the long-term problem is that there is no agreement between what the government wants and the funding that is, that is, the money that is given to it. I do not understand that you are not aware of this because the figures speak their clear language. I have mentioned this, and it is obvious that there is no coherence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122308	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122310	I noticed that Mr. Peter Skaarup in his speech asked the rhetorical question: How did you come to the conclusion that it is exactly 20 million? kr., you need to secure the buildings better? Could Mr. Peter Skaarup does not confirm that he is well aware of the answer to the question, namely that it is PET and the Building Agency that have come up with that figure and that it is in one of the almost 30 written questions that have been asked about this case? That is my one question. The second question I have is more of a process, because I am not in the police conciliation circle, so we in the Enhedslist do not know what you have done over there. We're just a little wondering, I think, looking at from the sidelines these days. Could Mr. Peter Skaarup does not confirm that at least a month has passed now plus the time it has taken inside the negotiating rooms, where there have been proposals to give the police more money to better protect the Jewish minority, to secure the buildings and to ensure that overtime hours are paid instead of time off so that the ordinary police work does not suffer? So we are in favour of it being almost a month and a half at least, I would say to Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, that money hasn't gone. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122429	I can certainly confirm that the course that has taken place in the Ministry of Justice in relation to the police settlement has not been satisfactory, nor has it been satisfactory that the Minister for Justice suddenly interrupted the negotiations. This is among other things. That's why it's been so long. But what we have to say is that, in spite of everything, it has happened while things were going on in the Ministry of Justice, that more money came out of the pocket, not a lot more, but a little more, and that is why we are saying that it is clear to everyone I think Mrs Pernille Skipper is also aware that when the police spend their wages alone just over the first week after the terrorist attack spends 27 million. kr. extra, there is a huge bill to pay until September 1st this year, where you will run the alert. Try to think back to the climate summit, which was a much more limited item in time, and here nearly 700 million were spent. kr. of an extra grant to the police, which we granted through an act. That is why I say, and I think Mrs Pernille Skipper can see that the two cannot be compared. The reality is that the government pretends to solve a problem, but you don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122548	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122551	I understand. I understand, sir. Peter Skaarup's argument. The right wing is worried about whether this is enough money. It is clear what the right is saying. This is based on some statements made by a trade union chairman, whom I have great respect for, but it is the National Police themselves who say that it is this money that is being granted with the record that is needed. That can then be discussed. I would just like to say that there has been a course of debate, and there has been an action that has been taken; almost 30 written questions, as I remember; it has been in the Chamber a few weeks ago; it is in the Chamber again. Why have the Danish People's Party and the other parties on the right not decided to vote through this, so that some money goes, and then perhaps put forward a motion for a resolution on more money? It just seems like political teasing rather than constructive desire to give even more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122644	It can certainly also be said that we have to do so. We are just appealing to the government, because there is also a police settlement, as Mrs Pernille Skipper refers to, to sit down and invite all parties, including the Enhedslisten, to discuss it here, because that is a joint task. This is not something that should depend on some small circle of conciliation, where things are going on too close. No, invite all parties, discuss this, and then you shouldn't count on the situation in which the National Police come into the office of the Minister of Justice and the government offices and say: we need 700 million. kr. Because you know you don't get that money. We're never gonna hear about that. We're hearing that the National Police want what the government wants to give. That's the way it is. Mrs Pernille Skipper probably knows the political game well enough to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122730	Sir. Jesper Petersen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122733	I would like to start by saying that I really do not think this is the finest time for the people's regime. I also think that Mr. Peter Skaarup, with the way he answers the questions, goes further and further out on the ice, and that emphasizes that we should have finished this piece a long time ago and got that money out and work with the police, instead of standing here and having such a controversy. But that is how they wanted it, and then we have to ask and take the debate here. The Danish People's Party is critical of the fact that there may be some money that you would like to have more later; there we have a financial bill debate for that. But right now, it's about 100 million. kr. extra, the government would like to grant, and Mr. Peter Skaarup jumps up and falls on it and says a little loud and handsome that it can go a few more days. Do we fully agree that it is important for the police that they actually have the certainty that they have this money to work with and that they cannot start using it out there until they are granted? Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417122845	One of the things that is being discussed at the moment is, for example, that of the Commission. the purchase of security vests; it has been a problem and security vests were missing when the terrorist attack took place. What have the police done about it? Well, what the police are doing is apparently buying a large number of security vests from the Copenhagen Police Department. Does this have anything to do with this file? They do that regardless of the record. And with that, I'm actually just saying that what's needed is that we in here take cutlery off and like with the government of the table end • what it really costs. Well, may I just try to get a little bit of sir? Jesper Petersen's mathematics in use here. A little over a week has passed since the terrorist attack; preparedness costs 27 million. kr. It will run until 1 September. - Sir... Jesper Petersen does not well see that the calculation ends much higher up on September 1st? That is why I am saying that more money is needed now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123000	Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123001	I always find it a little difficult to get things to vote, such the blocks when the Danish People's Party is asking for more money for use in the public sector, while at the same time supporting a prime minister who wants zero growth and could not in any way finance additional funds for the police without having to take the money from, for example, the money from. care for the elderly or health care. But it is the choice of the Danish People's Party that it is the Prime Minister and the political course one wants. I'll just say good luck if I succeed. It will not be easier to finance additional funds for the police. But if you're worried that you're going to get started out there, why can't we get this 100 million? kr. extra? Can you, for example, do it? start making the physical adjustments around the Jewish minority before this money is granted? Can you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123051	As I said, of course, we are also voting in favour of any additional funding for the police, because we can see that the need is there. That is how far we agree, no doubt about it. We are just saying that we need a longer-term solution that does not just address the problems that are already there. So with regard to the police and a future government and the current government: if you look at facts, and that is many times very good, what has happened under the government that is currently in office in relation to the police force? Yeah, well, we've lost over 500 cops. Over 500 police officers have become fewer to take care of citizens' security over the three or four years the government has been sitting. So that's certainly not a very good offer, sir. Jesper Petersen is coming with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123138	Mrs Astrid Krag for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123140	I'm sorry. I just had to get back together. I therefore believe that this is one of the most irresponsible things I have experienced in my almost eight years as a member of parliament, that is to say that there is a rapporteur for the Danish People's Party on the platform and must defend a motion for a resolution which is about the fact that we cannot devote any money, while the same rapporteur says: but of course we support the idea that that money should be set aside. So, it is simply a new bottom level of how the political debate can take place. I understand that sir. Peter Skaarup himself has a bit of red cheeks, for the water on which you get paddled becomes deeper and deeper. Suddenly the conciliation circle around the police is referred to as some kind of conciliation circle on the part of the rapporteur. To be honest, I am a little shocked that such a serious matter is going to be used for political legholds and that you cannot even find out where you stand; whether you stand on one leg or the other, and whether you want to help ensure that the police have the money or not. I'm confused at a higher level. That's why I'm just going to ask Mr. Peter Skaarup to answer me whether we should understand the Danish People's Party in such a way that you have confidence in the police leadership or you do not trust the police leadership. It is a very simple question. Do you have confidence in the assessment that has come from the police leadership?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123244	We have such confidence in the police leadership and we also have confidence that when you go to the government, you will hardly ask for more than the government will give. It is, of course, no matter what government sits, whether there had been a bourgeois government or a social democratic government. Then the question is whether there are some parties and some in here who, with a slightly greater overview than the government says: Well, it is not enough that more needs to be done. That is what we are doing and that is why we have the debate today. I think, in fact, that if I were Mrs Astrid Krag, who is after all seeking elections in one of the large groups in Zealand, I would be deeply concerned about the problem facing citizens at the moment. Because what is happening on Zealand is that hundreds of officers are being removed because they are working inside Copenhagen at the moment. They're gonna shut down groups that're gonna break into houses. Pretty much every case is downgraded except for these photo cars that drive around and maybe get some money in the box for the police. So I would be concerned if I were Mrs Astrid Krag, in other words to find out how to explain to the public that, because of the government's lack of funding for the police, it is not possible to provide the police for example. To solve break-ins and shoplifting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123406	Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123408	- Sir... Peter Skaarup hear himself: parties that have a little more overview than the government must help the government understand where the level should be? Well, it's deeply irresponsible. The level is at what is estimated to be the need now. We have had a minister on the platform who has so clearly indicated that, of course, the long-term discussion lies ahead of us. This is political legholds, and this is a worrying mistrust of police leadership. Following on from this, I would remind the Danish People's Party that they believe that the state should support the private investigation of terrorists, and that public funds in the back should be allowed to carry out their own investigation, because the Danish People's Party is not supposed to trust the police here either. Will Mr. Peter Skaarup elaborates a little more on what this is about for the Danish People's Party, perhaps also on what kind of money is to be spent on it, and how it is at all related to what the rapporteur is saying on the platform today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123500	I would love to, but it may be a little outside of what we are discussing today. But basically, I think we are back to the problem of the government, namely that there is a very, very high consumption of police officers at the moment in Copenhagen for good reasons, and there are no alternatives to how to solve the situation for citizens in the police circles that are being affected. That is the situation. Mrs Astrid Krag can of course say that nothing can be done about that, because that is what is happening in Copenhagen at the moment, which means that the break-in is not being solved. But that was actually the effort we should have in here, in other words to ensure that the extensive police service currently taking place in Copenhagen does not affect the citizens of the rest of the country. It won't work if the government doesn't think twice about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123551	Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123554	I simply have to ask one question, Mr President. Peter Skaarup said a few questioners ago that you will vote in favour of any appropriation. I do not think that makes much sense, because the Danish People's Party is the proposer of a motion for a resolution which says: Parliament is instructing the Minister for Justice to withdraw from the Committee on Finance item 108 on reinforced action against terrorism. So, act 108 is exactly an additional allocation of 100 million. kr. In my head, it doesn't add up that Mr. Peter Skaarup says that he will vote in favour of any grant, but at the same time he supports it, and I assume that you do so when you are the proposer of a motion for a resolution that will withdraw an additional appropriation from the Parliament's Finance Committee. Well, you support giving the police 100 million. kr. extra, or do you not support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123646	Well, of course we support that. But what we would like to see was the fact that the government took a piece of cutlery and the Radicals used to be very factual about what the situation is like. It seems that this is not what you want, and instead you spend your time here in a few brief remarks asking virtually the same question time and time again. Well, you don't really want to understand. That is fair enough too, but it does not change the fact that we have a specific situation that should be dealt with. Claus Oxfeldt, President of the Police Union, said it very precisely this morning, in other words that what is happening at the moment goes beyond all the tasks of the police and therefore also the citizens. And I do not understand why the Radicals, as a government partner, are not at all concerned with what is going on on Funen and around Zealand, where you experience that you have to send officers into Copenhagen and then have no one at work locally. And if the government doesn't change the signals, you just have to see that one citizen after another calls the police and wants help and can't get it because Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen and his party have sent the police officers into Copenhagen. That's what's happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123808	Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123810	I will not comment on the latter. But I just need to get it right. And I would actually like to thank you, because it sounds like Mr. Peter Skaarup and Dansk Folkeparti support Act 108, even though a motion for a resolution has just been tabled to withdraw it. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123827	It is well understood that the Danish People's Party wants the government to present a new piece of action that allocates the right funds to the police, which is needed. Today we can listen to the Minister, who does not even want to answer the questions put to us in the Chamber and is not particularly involved in the debate that it is apparently not going to happen. One is very conservative and has determined that the right solution has been found, and then it doesn't matter about this large minority in the Folketing who has a different view. If that does not happen, we will be back at the act we are discussing, 108, and then the Danish People's Party will of course support it. However, we would like to see more appropriations being created.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123914	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417123917	Thank you. I'm a little confused. On the one hand, the Danish People's Party expresses distrust of the police leadership and their attitude about what this costs in the first place, and on the other hand it expresses confidence. I guess you can't do both at once. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to answer the question put a little earlier by Mrs Pernille Skipper by going a little deeper into what sort of assessments are underlying those recommendations. Because the Danish People's Party has asked that several times. And this has also been asked by the Finance Committee in question 8, where it has been asked: 'Will the Minister explain the studies and assessments which are the basis for ensuring the buildings of the Jewish community to be held within the framework of 20 million. kr.? • • • • That is Question 8, and it will be answered that it is PET's assessment on the basis of the Buildings Agency's. So the answer has been given, and Mrs Pernille Skipper asked the question very well, but the rapporteur did not reply. Then you can't here, sir. Peter Skaarup, confirm that you actually knew very well the answer to the question you asked and that what underlies that assessment is an assessment by PET and the Buildings Agency?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124029	It is preferable to avoid direct indictment and to keep to the speaking time. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124034	Yes, but I don't know if there's anyone here in the Chamber today who's a little dull. But no matter what, Mr. Jeppe Bruus, if I cannot confirm that there has been an answer that that attitude, among other things. comes from PET, and of course I can confirm that. I'm not questioning about 20 million. kr. is the right level for any physical protection of e.g. Caroline School, I don't do that at all. What I'm questioning is what Mr. Jeppe Bruus may well be the actual amount, which is put off in new funds in this piece. For the chairman of the Police Union, among other things: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). He would like a multi-year agreement to be drawn up that created the right appropriations now, and I would like to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124142	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124144	I do not know whether I should be offended by being called dull or whether it was a direct reference, but in that case I am sorry that I simply do not understand what the rapporteur is saying. There are doubts as to the attitude of the police management that this appropriation is adequate in this way, and the rapporteur confirms that he is well aware of the answer that has been given to exactly the question put by the Committee on Finance. And yet one stands up in the platform and accuses the police leadership of actually tampering with that attitude in order to take account of the government, although the government has clearly stated that there must, of course, be the means that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124222	Well, it's two different things. One is the physical security that is about building measures that you would like to make and which cost something now and here, it is not an operating grant over the years, but it is something that needs to be invested in now and here, in 2015, and something else is: What are we doing in relation to the size of the police force? These are two different things. The size of the police force is currently such that it is necessary to pull a large number of policemen from the Zealandic circles and from Funen into Copenhagen. And we say on the part of the Danish People's Party that citizens cannot be served by this. That is the crux of the matter. That is what we should be discussing and to which the government should find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124302	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124311	Thank you for the floor, President. I simply do not understand why we are discussing this proposal today, quite frankly. We all stood and condemned the terrorist attack a few months ago, we all want the Danish Jews to be better protected, that the police have better opportunities to prevent similar things happening, and that the police's resources for tasks related to the terrorist attack do not starve all other police tasks. This, of course, requires additional funds, and the additional funds will help to give them. What we are discussing here is not even funds from 2016 onwards, we are only talking about funds here in 2015, in this financial year, not in the next financial year, and this will not be shared by the bourgeois parties, that is, just in 2015 alone. Instead, we vote extra costs through extra costs for police and for counter-terrorism with the help of the SF and from the Enhedslisten. It is a little the reverse world, and I am sorry, and I find it hard to understand that the bourgeois parties will not help to secure the Jewish institutions better. I find it hard to understand that there will be no reduction in the risk of the rest of the country's police circles starving because of the extraordinary situation in Copenhagen. Now, fortunately, we are voting down this proposal so that we can have the file adopted and we can have the funds set aside, and I would like to thank Enhedslisten and SF for that, but it really annoys me that it has been dragging on for weeks with this appropriation, and I simply cannot understand why. We Radicals will not delay this process any further. We support the fight against terrorism, which is why we cannot support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124500	Thank you to the radical rapporteur, and then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124512	Thank you. I am here on behalf of the SF Legal Rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. The Right has put forward a proposal to withdraw Act 108 on reinforced action against terrorism from the Finance Committee. The right wing acts irresponsibly by stalling the case and slowing down the funding of measures to strengthen the fight against terrorism, especially when there is agreement on its content. Denmark was hit by terror, and that is why we are faced with a serious and acute problem where action needs to be taken here and now to raise the level of security among the Danes. That is what is needed. Had the bourgeois just agreed to the act in the Finance Committee, we could have acted much faster and thus ensured protection of Danish Jews, prevented terror and secured security. But this suggests that the bourgeois have no interest in it at all. It is incomprehensible how it can be so difficult when it comes to something so deeply serious. The bourgeois fear that funds will be taken within existing budgets, and that concern is, of course, real enough. It should not be the case that this should only affect the police's regular crime-fighting efforts or the fight against gangs and organised crime. But what the government is proposing is that new funds should be used to ensure security here and now, and we support that. The SF is therefore voting against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124625	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we go to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417124632	The terrorist attack in Copenhagen, where two people died, clearly led to the need for more police presence. It did so because when something like this happens, it is both a physical attack, but it is also an attack on freedom of expression and some fundamental freedoms. That is why since then we have had to get used to seeing more police in the streets of Copenhagen armed in a different way than we have been used to in the past. This has also led to a very, very large number of officers being at work much more than planned, to say what it is, both in the days around the terrorist attack, but also since. And, of course, those policemen either have to leave their overtime or have money for their overtime. That's how it works. Once you've delivered a job, you're also paid for it. That is why there are two options for us here from a political point of view. It is either to watch while the time for protection and the overtime that has been after the terrorist attack goes from ordinary police work, the investigation of break-ins, the investigation of violent incidents, bicycle thefts, all the things in our everyday lives where we all need the police, or that we add some more money. It is clearly the view of the Enhedslisten that it makes sense and that we have a responsibility to ensure that ordinary police work is not harmed, as it does in these days, while we wait for the record to get through the Folketing. In addition, of course, we also have an obligation as a society to protect threatened minorities. This is true whether it is Jewish minorities, Muslims, homosexuals or other minorities in our society. And we are currently in a situation where the Jewish minority in Denmark needs extra protection. They have also expressed a number of different media representatives in a variety of ways that they are afraid, and I understand that. And as a society, we have a duty to do everything we can to protect them and to ensure that they have a sense of security to practise their religion in peace and that they know that society and community care for them as well as we can. The act which the right wing is now proposing to withdraw contains precisely the two things: compensation for time off and ensuring the buildings of Jewish institutions in Copenhagen. These two things should be right to the right, to say it as it is. We do not want in the Enhedslisten in any way any totally necessary appropriations to be prevented. Nor do we want to delay the matter. I actually don't understand if I'm gonna be honest with you about what's going on. It may well be that something has happened in a closed negotiating room with the police conciliation circle, where we in the Enhedslisten are not sitting with, who somehow gave birth to this crazy thing, if I have to say it as it is, but I just haven't figured out what has happened yet. Because the situation we're in right now is that it's been at least 1⁄2 months ~ 1 month, when this piece has been in the Folketing waiting to get through. There have been written questions, it has been in the Chamber once, now it has to be in the Chamber again, and now this motion for a resolution also has to be put to the vote and so on. etc. And everything as we crazy around here, the money hasn't been sent to the police, and the protection of the Jewish minority and the changes that need to be made to the buildings haven't gotten under way. I don't understand. I just don't understand. And I would just like to suggest that if you think that the amount here is too small, you take the objective path, and the objective path is to vote through this piece. Then we can put forward another proposal for an act with the amount that we think needs to be added to it. Then the police can get started, and then, of course, you can also have a debate on whether the amount should be greater or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125146	Sir. Peter Skaarup, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125150	I listened with interest to Mrs Pernille Skipper's speech and, in particular, in the introduction to the threat level and the situation of the Jews, I think there were some things that were not always heard from the Enhedslisten, namely that we need to protect Jews, that we also need to have a more sustained high level of preparedness in relation to that situation; that is what the police have considered necessary for the time being until 1 September. But I would really like to hear Enhedslisten, whether that means that Enhedslisten has got a different attitude to the police, to the size of the police force, because over the years we have heard from the Enhedslisten, that the police were almost abolished, but fortunately new notes have come, I can hear. Will the Enhedslisten, if the Enhedslisten gets power to do so in the financial negotiations, which they have had over the last four years, fight for the police force to grow? Let me just say that the force has fallen by more than 500 men over the last few years while this government has been sitting. Does this mean that Mrs Pernille Skipper says here that the Enhedslisten will work for a larger police force?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125304	I would like to start by saying that the drop in the number of officers is the result of the police conciliation which Mr. Peter Skaarup is in, and Enhedslisten is not in. Well, I don't know if I'm gonna cry or laugh. The Enhedslisten was the first to say after the attack in Paris: this must mean that there is a risk that the Jewish minority in Denmark is more threatened, so let us have an assessment of whether there is a need for better protection and more police presence. We also said so immediately after the attack in Copenhagen. We have declared ourselves willing to vote through this act. It is simply insulting and bordering on lies to stand and say that it should be new notes from Enhedslisten that one wants to protect a religious minority in Denmark. Honestly, I must be free! Sir. Peter Skaarup knows, now that we are correcting deliberate falsehoods, that Peter Skaarup has repeatedly tried in this case to draw out such an idea that the Enhedslisten should be opposed to the police, and Mr. Peter Skaarup has received the same answer over and over again: The Enhedslisten wants, of course, a proper and adequate police force in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125419	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125421	Well, I think that's good. It was actually a praise to the Enhedslisten, but it was not quite seen as a praise, that is, that one was prepared to have a police force that could help the citizens against the challenges that exist, among other things. terrorism and, of course, the Jews too. I just do not think that Mrs Pernille Skipper really answered my question, because what I am so interested in hearing from the Enhedslisten is whether there is any agreement between what Enhedslisten says, that is, that you will help on the things that Enhedslisten says you will, after the terrorist attacks in both Paris and Copenhagen, and then some actions where, for example, you will help. in the financial law negotiations will take up with the government that we need more officers and that we have to get more into the police school so that the police force can increase over the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125512	I will start by replying that, when we are, hopefully, invited to negotiate a new multi-year agreement on the police economy, it will of course be one of the things we have to look at, that is why there are fewer officers on the street for ordinary police work. But now it's sir. Peter Skaarup, who has signed the agreement that means they have disappeared, and not Enhedslisten. So this has nothing to do with financial law negotiations, it has something to do with the conciliation that Mr. Peter Skaarup has signed it. Then I would say that the reason why so-called praise was perceived as insulting is, of course, that Mr. Peter Skaarup is trying to pretend that it is something new that the Enhedslisten wants to have proper police protection for ordinary people and, moreover, is very concerned about protecting religious minorities. Well, it's offensive that Mr. Peter Skaarup is trying to put something like that between the lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125604	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125606	Thank you. I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper was somewhat more than Mrs Pernille Skipper's speech. I think Mrs Pernille Skipper was told that she cannot understand why the bourgeois parties will not be able to adopt this act now, so that we can get to work, for example. to ensure proper protection of Jewish society. Mrs Pernille Skipper is usually someone who prepares and reads the questions for the legislative proposals and resolutions and, in this case, the file that we are dealing with. That is why I am a little surprised, because Mrs Pernille Skipper is, of course, aware of the answer to Question 8, which explains what these 20 million are. kr. I'm gonna use it. It says that the 20 million. kr. If you read the answer, you will see that it is quite clear that it is not the case that you are just starting tomorrow. We want a framework, as it also says. So I would just like to ask whether Mrs Pernille Skipper cannot confirm that this is a framework and that it is not a project or any clear recommendations or anything. It is an immediate estimate, not even an estimate, but an immediate estimate. It says something that it doesn't matter that much whether we spend one week or two more weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125719	It is quite true that when it comes to the security of the buildings, there is not a tractor waiting to get started so I am sorry if I have been too polemical. That is absolutely correct. But, of course, the money is missing. The act involves more than 20 million. kr., which goes for the security of buildings. This includes, among other things: to make a payout for the overtime worked. As long as the police have no assurance that that money will come, it would be irresponsible financial management if they worked on it. That is why we need that money to go, so that the police can carry out both their tasks with the increased protection that is needed for the increased preparedness but also their ordinary police tasks. It is a problem that they have not yet received that money, and it is the right-wing fault that this document has not yet been adopted. - Sir, you can. Karsten Lauritzen didn't run away.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125819	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125821	We are certainly not running away from that either, but we would like to ask for some honesty in the debate, and I would like to sign for the answer given by Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then I'm going to ask you about this with the police, because if there wasn't any money in the police department, the police would have been using the entire grant of the year at this time. If you need money to pay out overtime, you could take it from what you have in December or October, and then we just have to make sure that we provide funds before we reach December and October. Can Mrs Pernille Skipper not confirm that it is not the case that the moneybox with the police is empty in April and that overtime can be paid out and, incidentally, has also been paid out? It's not waiting for the record.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125900	Well, it is quite true that of course there is still money in the police. But, of course, it would also be irresponsible to work on the basis of a thesis that we are getting as much extra money as we are talking about here. This means that in order to do real financial management and plan their finances for the rest of the year, the police need to know that this money is coming. Now Mr. Karsten Lauritzen himself on the matter. I just want to call on the Left and the rest of the right to vote through this act again. Stop this nonsense by dragging it off and then put forward a motion for a resolution on the additional means that it seems to be necessary. That would be the point. But then, of course, there would not be so many journalists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417125952	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130001	Thank you. In the absence of our rapporteur in this area, I can say that the resolution we are discussing here is not, of course, the result of any particularly happy process. In the Liberal Alliance we are not part of the police settlement, so unfortunately we have been excluded from the discussions on financing terrorist preparedness, and from the sidelines we have been able to observe how the negotiation process has failed the government and has basically fallen apart. Against this background, we are pleased that we could get the matter to the Assembly and discuss it a little more closely. We have a slender hope that the governing parties in particular today will reveal how they imagine that the extraordinary efforts of the police will be financed after New Year. Among other things, it would. be reassuring to hear whether the government can find funding without increasing the tax burden, and without compromising the police's general anti-crime efforts, including in particular the fight against bourgeois and perilous crime. In the Liberal Alliance, we are not afraid to point the way forward. We can support an increase in funding for the police, which finances the increased preparedness for terrorism, but we also believe that the police will be able to achieve a great deal with better priorities. Many man-hours can be released by dropping total controls, speed measurements, hashrazzies, etc. The hours would certainly be more useful if they were spent on securing Jewish fellow citizens or clearing break-ins. We shall, of course, be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution here, on which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130159	There is a brief comment from Mrs Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130205	Thank you. I just want to make sure that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance has read the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance. For what the motion for a resolution says is that the Folketing wants to require the Minister of Justice to withdraw the dossier. Are the proposers aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130230	We think it should be withdrawn. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130235	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130237	But maybe the Liberal Alliance is the only party in the Parliamentary Chamber that does not actually want to add additional funds to the police for counter-terrorism? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130249	As I said, we would very much like to give more to these serious cases for the police. But we would also like to be able to go in and help to point out some priorities that are obviously interesting in this context. After all, there is no clear mechanical link between what you can do and the economy you have. After all, in such large institutions as the police are, we always have the opportunity to prioritise our relations according to what is the most topical here and now. This applies to all institutions. I hope that it is not the case that, blindfolded, people are running according to completely defined budgets and objectives, regardless of what is happening in the surrounding society. This applies to all institutions. They must give priority to the tasks involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130338	Then there is one more brief comment. Actually, there's three on the list now. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130350	Frankly, I was a little surprised, but it is of course very interesting if the Liberal Alliance takes a different position from the rest of the bourgeois bloc. I have to understand that the party must be given priority within the framework that exists. What is the priority for the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130408	Now I have not said that under no circumstances can we spend more money in this area, but I have said that, of course, things are happening in the surrounding society, which means that institutions have to turn the screws a little. Whether or not there is a need, I do not know how many speed controls and hashrazzies I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that priority must always be carried out. And I think that all the institutions will do so; it is not such a mechanical context that you cannot do anything without having to have extra money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130440	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130446	Should I understand the rapporteur's view that the increased expenditure on combating terrorism and on security should be included in the funding for the fight against hashish, which poses a risk to our young people, and the fight against too much speed on our roads? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130501	No, that's not really understood. We want to have a longer-term discussion on how priority will be given in this area so that we do not stop here at New Year and so that we can really solve these problems in this area without having to go in and make changes where it really hurts. However, a large institution has the possibility of prioritising. That is what is important for me to say. So it is not either black or white, as I can hear that the rapporteur would like it to look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130530	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130537	I normally agree completely with the Liberal Alliance when it comes to the provision of new funds to the police, because there is no doubt that we often hear the other parties talking about this and that should lead to higher penalties or more officers. It is such an automatic reaction to say: Higher sentences, more cops! And then everything's gonna be okay. I fully agree that there is a consumption of resources on the part of the police to hunt down young people who have a pot joint in their pockets and to meet targets and all sorts of other bureaucracy, which, moreover, also bothers the ordinary officer in his disposal of the ordinary work and that some funds could be released there. However, does the Liberal Alliance not think that this is a slightly longer task that we will probably not be able to solve before the police actually need a penny to pay overtime?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130642	Then it's mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130646	As was debated when the rapporteur of the Left asked questions a moment ago, it is the case that a large institution has resources, at least until the end of the year, and I myself heard the answer that it is possible to turn it upside down. It is not entirely mechanical, so that you can only spend money on what you just get money for. I mean, you can give priority, and that's what I was trying to say. If we could then get the discussion in this Chamber and put it on a little longer light, I think that would be an advantage rather than a more closed circle, and that is what I am saying in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130724	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130727	Okay, then I understand the Liberal Alliance rapporteur so far that it is believed that we can achieve the reprioritisation of the entire police organisation, including legislative proposals on the legalisation of cannabis by New Year. In other words, even if that were possible, only the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslist wanted to make a re-priority of police resources in those areas while the other parties are in a conciliation circle. I just find it hard to understand. If we're gonna get this a little bit into the real world, we're gonna have to say that there's a difference between what you want and what you really want. If the Liberal Alliance wants only to rely on what it wants, then the police will not get any money for increased terrorist preparedness or to ensure that the terrorist attack does not impose any burden on the rest of the police work or on the security of the Jewish minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130826	Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130829	Now I think it's very sensible to put the long light on this. Well, there's nothing to stop the police from doing something active right now if there's a problem. There's money for that in the box, it's a fact. After all, we only write April, and how long you spend on plans, and what do I know, I don't know. How the police work with it, I have no idea. However, there are no acute problems here and now, we cannot solve, and so time can be given to have a longer-term discussion on how to make the best of this. I see no contradiction in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130906	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130911	In fact, I think it was quite interesting that a moment ago the rapporteur of the Left stood and said in this Chamber that the police could then use resources from October, November and December to finance overtime here and now. Is that what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur stands to confirm, namely that this is a way of managing the economy in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417130936	I have the expectation of public institutions which have budgets from in here that they have eyes and ears open and are able to react both actively and proactively to what is happening in the surrounding society. And when the crapper burns... excuse the expression... it's a wish from here, and I'm sure there's a lot of people who agree with me that we have such dynamic and predictable leaders that they are also able to move around the boxes. It could be that some of the boxes were filled with some money for historical reasons. That is the way it is in a living democracy, that is the way it is in living institutions, so the scenario of making some kind of scenario whereby you spend some money that you already know you don't have, assumes that Mrs Trine Bramsen knows exactly what you have to spend the rest of your money on all the other areas where you have not yet committed. But I'm not so much into financial management that I know exactly that I'd agree with the questioner in exactly where to change. We should not know that either as politicians. But I am sure we have leaders who are able to react when serious things happen in a society. That's what they get paid for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131043	Is there another brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131048	Yeah, I just need to understand the Liberal Alliance. Does the Liberal Alliance want more money to be set aside for counter-terrorism, or is it good enough as it is now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131101	Then we are in the same discussion as just now. Whether or not there is a counter-terrorism on the order form in question is not very important. The crucial thing is that the police have the overall resources so that they can respond to the needs that exist. There is no need to put a yellow note on which there is so much precise to it and so much money exactly for it, not if you have well-functioning institutions. I really hope they can do that, and I'm sure they'll be glad we don't interfere too much from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131127	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131132	I think the conclusion, even though it is going around a bit, is that everyone who looks at it here can say that it may well be that there are four bourgeois parties on the resolution, but that you do not actually agree. All right. Okay, that's it. Then I just have to follow up on the excellent issues that come up because it is a bit of a discussion, also following on from what the rapporteur of the Left said earlier, about how to actually run the public sector: that it is claimed that it does not matter whether this act is actually adopted and that it is so lengthy a process, because the bourgeois do not want to give the justice minister the feather in the hat, that she is doing something strong about the terrorist preparedness. So, did the Liberal Alliance rapporteur just say that dynamic leaders in the public sector are starting to dispose of money that has not yet been allocated, the moment they hear that there are some politicians who think it might be a good idea to spend some more money on their territory? Isn't that what I just heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131230	No, sir. Jesper Petersen wrong. I'm sorry, I've been head of a public institution myself for so many years. I know very well that you get a budget and then you can react to the things that are going on out there. And, of course, the police can also take action, and so must they, and they have done so too, to respond to the conditions we are now discussing here. But that does not mean that we can say anything today about the budget, and the question requires that we know exactly how many items on all the other accounts need to be put into effect and implemented. It is, of course, the opportunity one has as a leader that one can regulate in relation to, as I said before, the challenges one faces, and we have an expectation of that happening. So there is no mechanical link between saying that now we have to spend some money and then we have a huge deficit when we reach New Year. Nobody knows about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131329	Sir. Jesper Petersen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131331	In other words, the Liberal Alliance would like the approach of collecting an overtime hump, providing greater security for Jewish institutions, enabling PET to strengthen surveillance and improving police preparedness. All the things that actually lie in the terror package from the government, the Liberal Alliance today says that the budget you have has to deal with. Because that is how Liberal Alliance's rapporteur thinks it is when he has now been the head of a public institution. You just have to find it somewhere else. So we have to set up the tasks, we want to have better terrorist preparedness, but we do not want to grant the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131413	That is not correct either. What I'm saying is, of course, it's a big job. It's a big bump on the road that's come here, but it doesn't mean that, and that's what's important here... that you can't discuss a longer-term strategy, so it can also keep on the long track. Because, as has already been explained here in the debate, it does not seem very much that we can lie where we are now in the long run. Therefore, we would like to have the discussion into the Parliamentary Chamber and discuss these things. But to say that it is not possible to do anything right now, I do not understand very much. Of course it can, and you can have that point of view, while at the same time you have a view that in the long run we have to find solutions other than that of this piece.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131500	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131504	I understand, sir. Villum Christensen, that the terrorist attack and the terrible events that happened in Copenhagen are a big bump on the road. That's one expression to use. I just want to understand it quite correctly: the rapporteur talks about the short and the long track and that other things can be done in the long run, but there is no need to do anything in the short run. That is the short course we are discussing today. This is an expression of the fact that, on the part of the government and on the part of the red bloc, we would very much like to ensure that the large resources spent so far in 2015 as a result of the terrorist attack will not have a major impact on police work in the rest of the country. This is very important for the Socialists. But I can understand what Mr. Villum Christensen, that you do not have the same upset about whether it has consequences for the other police work and that it is quite fine down in the rapporteur's belly that the money is found elsewhere in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131616	Of course, you can only spend the same money once. That goes without saying. And everything you do has consequences elsewhere. That goes without saying. But the fact that a picture is drawn that it is only black and white, I cannot understand. One can always prioritise, and one can always say, and I think that is also sensible here, that with that bump on the road, it may well be that we need to get into a longer process and find out how we can make this happen in the long run. But that does not prevent problems from being solved here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131646	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131648	But the problems here and now will only be solved if the record goes through, not if Mr. Mr Villum Christensen's motion for a resolution removes the record and the money on the table. So the protection of the Jewish minority is out of the overtime to be paid. All the things that need to be done in order for security and security to continue in our country are being removed. And then you say it always has consequences, but you have to give priority to it. I do not think we are going to get any answers at all as to what the Liberal Alliance thinks should be given priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131726	Then I have to repeat what I dared to say in my speech, namely that it might well be that one could go in and give priority and now I read up total control, speed measurements, hashrazzia. Well, maybe you could turn it up a little bit. I started by saying that the world does not stand still and, of course, you change your priorities in relation to the environment you are in. That's the way it is. Nor does it change the fact that we have something short-term. And the short-term does not mean that there is no money right now, but we would like to have the discussion into the Parliamentary Chamber, where we can also discuss the long-term issues when we are not part of the police settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131806	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131812	I do not think I have ever heard the authors of their own motion in the Assembly in so many different ways. And I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for providing another new angle on why the motion for a resolution that has been tabled does not really make sense. So, everyone who was present in the Chamber heard the Minister say that there is a need for some money on the short track, and there we take some new money to the police and set aside here we will do that, and that is what you suggested we should not do and then there is a discussion on the long line. We have all heard the Minister say that. It is therefore a pathetic defence of a motion for a resolution to say that the long-term debate is so important that we cannot deal with what is going to happen in the short-term. That is why I just need to understand exactly what the Liberal Alliance is saying in this Chamber today. Do you think there is a need for money in the short term, or do you think there is no money? Do you think it is only relevant to take the long-term debate on more appropriations for the police, or is it also relevant to consider what should happen on the shorter track?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131911	We can easily imagine that, compared with the shorter and a little longer course, we need to discuss how to find money in this area. But we will not be involved in this if it means raising taxes and levies. We have plenty of taxes in this country. That is why we would like to see it in a slightly larger context, and we think we can do that too. We have tried to point out some things, but here and now I think we can say that this must be spread out to be a slightly longer shot in the gay: what can we do to keep water in the longer term? Then we can get the discussion wide and not just in a narrow circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131954	Mrs Astrid Krag for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417131958	But the act that you are now helping to propose is to be tampered with, it makes no sense to stand here and talk about new taxes and charges in relation to an act financed by the additional appropriation reserves in the Finance Act. We need that money to go out to work with the police now. It is simply not related to what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says. And we just have to say that we are at least in complete agreement to have a complete disagreement as to why the motion for a resolution has been tabled. Some of the other blue rapporteurs say that this is about feeding the dog with its own tail. It is now factually wrong and then the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that we just have to feed the dog with the whole dog, and then everything will go up in the end. Well, if it wasn't so serious, it would almost be comical.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417132042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417132045	Yeah, if it's gonna be about dogs, it's gonna be funny. I can understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417132051	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then the last rapporteur in the series of speakers is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417132058	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution which has been discussed a great deal, to draw up this document No. 108 on strengthening the fight against terrorism back by the Finance Committee with a view to presenting a comprehensive plan for financing the anti-terrorist action. The reason for this is, of course, that it was not many weeks ago that the negotiations on a package of terrorists all collapsed. I think we were many rapporteurs who were very surprised. We got the message through the media, we were not even contacted, each of us was told that in one of the biggest debates in recent times we no longer wanted to see us. But then we have to say that there were also some reasons why these negotiations failed. The government wanted the police themselves to finance a large part of the package, and the Conservative People's Party believes that this is a directly wrong priority. We went out already in the autumn with our 2020 plan, which, incidentally, was not even new, and said that we wanted to add more resources to the police, exactly 500 million. kr. more, and thus we do not want to feed the dog with its own tail. Nor could we get the government to answer whether the measures put forward in the negotiations were sufficient and whether they would actually provide us with a proper protection against terrorism. My personal experience was that the government was not willing to hold a real debate and therefore could not indicate how it could both be done later to finance the terrorist package and fill up the gap that we all know is waiting for this autumn in the negotiations on the new police agreement. That is why it really makes very good sense to have this debate in the Assembly today. When we want to draw the record, it's not because we don't want to find the money. We'd love to. But we want to find more money and we want to give priority to the police in the fight against terrorism. Right now the bill on the long track is pushed on after the election, and we just think that it must be proper in Danish politics that you openly put forward how you want to finance one of the major challenges we face. Then why do we want to discuss this in the Chamber? Well, we do that because we want the government to respond to our desire for an overall plan. In fact, it can be said that it is an outstretched hand that it is a desire to go back to the negotiating table. It is a desire for a terrorist package with more money for the police. It is highly worrying that the additional resource trait that we see there may mean that crimes affecting ordinary people will be downgraded. We have even heard the Minister for Justice say so because today is the case. We also heard this morning the President of the Police Union say that, of course, priority will have consequences. We do not think that is fair. We think it is quite important that we ensure the confidence of ordinary citizens that they can count on the police, and we are concerned that the confidence of the police will be put at risk by not wanting to give more money. As I have said, we would like to have more officers and, at least, we should also expect that the officers we actually have have the necessary equipment and training. Since 2011, 500 fewer police officers have arrived. We have declared ourselves willing to open up to provide funding from areas other than the police. We have been willing to go outside the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, across ministries, but we find that the government has never wanted a real negotiation and has never tried to find funding or point to funding outside the police area. I just think it must be deeply demotivating to be a police officer today, to make a great effort, to know that there has been a terrorist attack in Denmark, and also to know that it is the police themselves who are responsible for having to pay a large part of the bill that is now coming. That is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution we are debating today with the desire to simply find more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417132502	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417132519	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate here today. It is mostly a thank you, however, that I say out of courtesy, because one should do so. I really do not think that there is such a lot to thank for in terms of content. Nor do I think there is much to commend the government for in this matter or in the debate we have had here today. The Minister of Justice starts by saying that the debate and the resolution tabled by the bourgeois parties are teasing. Mrs. Pernille Skipper... that's how I think she put it... said it was crazy. I think that is actually wrong. I think it's irresponsible, too. What we have here should be a fair political debate. I understand that it is inconvenient for the government that some people are raising a debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber about whether, with the action taken, the bill for the terrorist attack is being picked up. You don't get rid of the overtime hump that's in the police. We will not be given the task of having some areas in the police force where some tasks are not solved because resources have gone to increased guarding. The police will not be freed from the efforts they have made and continue to make in connection with the February terrorist attack. It is not teasing to raise such a debate. It's not crazy at all. It is common sense to have a debate on it, and that is, of course, what to say, at least in our view in the Left, to have the view that you want to add more funds to the police than the government is proposing. This is also about the security of Jewish society, which we take very seriously. That is why we think it is appropriate to discuss the 20 million. kr. the government has dropped off is enough. We are not sure it is, and I believe that if you ask the Jewish Society in Denmark, they will not be convinced that it is just 20 million. kr. that solves all their security issues. It is also a question of security for citizens, which I believe has become quite insecure as a result of the terrorist attack. There is a need to restore security. I don't think that's what you do with the action that's going on. It helps, but it does not solve the security problem created by the terrorist attack. However, we would like to acknowledge that the Minister for Justice has today made it clear clearly that the terrorist attack and the increased terrorist preparedness, which runs until 1 September, will of course take resources from other police tasks, even if the government's action is carried out. That was somewhat clearer from the Minister for Justice than what we have heard in the past, at least in public. It is, of course, the clear difference between what the government and the red bloc want and what the blue bloc wants: we do not think it is right that the terrorist attack and the increased preparedness for terrorism should take place at the expense of other important tasks of the police, whether they be burglary, be it personal crime, be it civic crime. There we have to lift the bill out of the police, pay it and make sure that the police have the resources they have always had to solve the tasks they have always had and, moreover, are sometimes challenged to solve within the framework that is there. We have to pay the bill for the terrorist attack. We have to pay the bill, both to the police and to secure the Jewish community. The government says that the bill has been paid with the record, and we say in the blue block that we have serious doubts about that. And with all due respect, we're not the only ones who say that. I have heard both the Jewish Society in Denmark and the Police Union say that one is not entirely sure that one can solve the problem within the framework that the government is now laying down. That is a clear political difference. That is, moreover, a legitimate political debate to take. After all, the question of how big the bill is is relevant. That's where the government says in the file that this is 150 million. kr. kr. for the security of the Jews and 130 million. kr. To the police. I must be very critical of that. In the answers that have been given, it is said, as I said, that compared to 20 million. kr. to the Jewish community for physical security it is a preliminary estimate, an immediate, preliminary estimate of the costs that are. I would be on a little safer ground and have an estimate, a precise amount, and it may well be that it will be greater than the 20 million. kr. Shouldn't we wait to find out what it actually costs before we grant the money? Then I would like to say on behalf of the Left and now I hear, as do the other civil parties, that we are, of course, willing to pick up the bill. But we do not really know what the bill is now, and we must therefore ask ourselves whether it is sensible to pick it up now, if you only have an immediate estimate of the costs involved. Then there is the question of the protection of Jewish society. This has also been asked in connection with the file. I understand from some of the questions that have been raised that some have at least not read the answers, because then you would know that, for example. is calculated that to maintain the current level of protection of the Jewish community and the Jewish institutions costs 11.2 million. kr. • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month • 11.2 million a month kr. a month! They are used quickly when 130 million are granted. kr., I would say, when you look at that there are other things in the record. There are, for example: This overwork hump, which is also lying. There is also the answer to that question, actually to Question No 1. One to the record. There is the provisional bill from 14 February 2015 to 27 March 2015 60,5 million. kr. And if you dive into the answer, you will see that it says: " Similarly, costs for the part of Copenhagen's normal staffing used and continued to be used for the follow-up of the shootings on 14 and 15 February are also excluded. ▪ What does that mean? This means that those who, I believe, hundreds of men of the police force in Copenhagen, who would otherwise break into the country, are chasing criminals who commit perilous crime, are now doing security. There are a number of tasks they can't solve, but they're not being released. The Copenhagen Police Department does not get money to carry out the task of the act that lies here. Those break-ins must remain unsolved, those assaults must be allowed to wait longer before they are solved. With the method of funding proposed by the government, there will be victims of crimes that do not receive the necessary help from the police, because the police must give priority to a guarding task and not be fully compensated. I would like to sign that the Minister of Justice has acknowledged this today, because then we are a tiny bit further. But that does not change the fact that we in the Left and in the Blue Block want to do it differently. Then there is the whole question of funding. Well, we wanted to help finance a long-term terrorist package, but the money has to be found. The government has found some new funds in its act, and we sign for that, but 50 million. kr. So we would have preferred them to be found together somewhere else. We've offered it to the government, but the government hasn't wanted that. On the other hand, the government has wanted to make an agreement in the field of defence where the Minister for Defence has been able to find more than 400 million. kr. to the Defense Intelligence Service. We would like to congratulate the Secretary of Defense on that, we would like to sign for it to the government, but we are just wondering why 400 million can be found. kr. in the defence to lift their share of the government's terrorist package, but you can't find the money that needs to be found to the police and to the PET in addition to the 80 million. kr., which is here in the record. We are very surprised at that. It is not because we want to challenge that priority, but we are very much wondering about it. Just as there is also justification for commending the Minister for Defence, we have little credit for the Minister for Justice's handling of this matter. But basically, I think it is about how to prioritise as a government, and we therefore disagree with the priorities that the government has set here. We also have the challenge that there is, after all, a drop in police appropriations from 2016 of just under half a billion in budget estimates. You can look that up in the Finance Act, and then you can see it. It is also a challenge that it will be relevant to address, just as there is a need to see it here in a larger context than just by the action that lies here. We in the Left want to pay the bill that is, but it is hard to know what the bill is before it is made up. Terrorist preparedness runs until 1 September, which is why we do not know today how big the overtime hump is. That is why it is difficult to make up for this, and that is why the government's act will not be enough. We want to free the police from these extra terrorist missions so that the fight against other crime in other parts of the country does not suffer. This is going to happen if the method proposed here by the government is chosen, but we do not want that in the Left, and I do not think that is what the other blue bloc wants either. You want to solve the problem for the police so that they can carry out their other important tasks. In short, we want to pick up the whole and not parts of the bill. Then the question is: what if there is no majority in favour of withdrawing the file and presenting a new overall plan for financing the challenges facing us in the police force and releasing the police's regular work for these increased terrorist preparedness missions? If you do not want to join, will you vote against the act? I can say clearly: no, we do not want to, we would like to vote in favour of the act, but we would have liked to have seen the action taken to be greater, that the additional allocation to the police was greater, that half a billion people had been taken care of, as we see from 2016, but the government and a majority in the Folketing will not be involved in that. Fair enough, we will have to live with that, and then we will have to take what is, and that is the act, and that is why we will also be voting in favour of the act, but we will be allowed to take this political debate that the government picks up only part of the bill. And the way the government is going to solve this will mean that serious police tasks will not be solved, because there are simply no resources for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133535	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a long series of brief comments. The first one is from Mrs. Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133542	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen has received a note from the Ministry of Justice on the strengthening of preparedness and the monitoring efforts in connection with the terror, and I quote: The National Police consider that within the appropriations allocated the necessary expenditure can be made available for these purposes. Can the rapporteur confirm that the police consider this 100 million? kr. Is it what it takes to maintain preparedness for terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133617	Yes, I can confirm that, but it is, after all, a political question as to whether the police are fully freed from the cost of the terrorist attack. You can't ask the chief of police a political question. I think that if you asked the National Police Commissioner what the total bill is, it would turn out to be bigger than the answer. I think I referred to the answer. There are some men in it, for example. to the Copenhagen Police Department. There are policemen who are guarding, and that is a few hundred, that is what I have heard, and there will be no compensation to the Copenhagen Police for the tasks you cannot solve, because you have to do this guarding task. So I can confirm the answer, but that does not change the fact that it is a political discussion whether you want to release the police altogether. That is what we want in the Left and in the other bourgeois bloc. That is not what the Social Democrats want. It's a political difference. We just have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133709	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133712	So the rapporteur confirms that the police estimate is that it is 100 million. kr. extra for the police needed to maintain proper terrorist preparedness? But why is it that the Left wants Parliament to withdraw this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133734	The National Police Commissioner was asked whether this is possible within the budget of the police, with the addition of a further 100 million. kr. to carry out this task, and he has answered that it is. But what he is also saying is that other police tasks will be affected, that the fight against burglary and other crime will be affected. I believe that the burglary squad that is with the Western police is suspended because you have to make a terrorist guard. Of course, these cops are supposed to be carrying out terrorist guarding, but the police have to be compensated for the tasks they will not solve, and that is not provided by the model that the government is setting up, and that is not provided by the answer given by the National Police Commissioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133812	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133816	I think some very good things have been said by the rapporteur. I'd just like to ask sir. Karsten Lauritzen, if it isn't right, as I think it is, that if you're going to make the bill as a government, you could start by making the bill up per month. date of day. And per. Today's date shows the figures on the basis of the answers we have received from the Ministry of Justice and that is what I would like Mr. Karsten Lauritzen confirms that the bill already, if you were to remove what is lying, exceeds what the government has put forward in its act. Is that not the truth, and is that not really why we have this debate at all today, in other words because the government is not showing due diligence?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133901	We have this debate because the government is trying to tell the public and the public that this file picks up the bill and solves the overtime problem in the police. Part of the challenge is also solved, but not all of it. And if you dive into questions and answer the record, that is also what Mr. Peter Skaarup has mentioned that will show up. What I think is the biggest problem is in fact that the government is not entirely honest about what they want. Because the government says that you want to solve the problems of overtime and other things in the police force, and that this piece solves the whole challenge, and that's not quite the truth. You solve part of the challenge, you lift part of the bill, but you leave something behind. Those of us who know this government and have known it for the last four years will know that this will not lead to the police making an extra bill in two or three months and then again getting more money. This is the only chance to give more money to the police, and that is why we use it in the bourgeois bloc to say that then you have to make sure you pay the whole bill and not just some of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417133958	Sir. Peter Skaarup for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134003	I fully agree with that, as Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says, and I would also like to hear Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, if not it shows how unfortunate the government's action is in this matter, when you look back at the climate summit in Copenhagen and the action that was given by the Danish Parliament back then. In addition, without comparison, I would say that the readiness we have now, in terms of time and in terms of scope, is much greater than at the climate summit. Nearly 700 million were provided at that time. kr. from Parliament's side extra to the police. Now the government comes and says that you're going to give 80 million. kr. in new money for the police, and then you'll give 20 million. kr. to some inventory and some changes at Caroline School in connection with the safety of the Jews. Is that not all, that is, that there is simply no connection between what you intend to do and what you actually tell the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134112	Yes, it does, and I think it also says something about the course we have had, where the government in its original proposal says that it will simply add 50 million to the police. kr. to the increased preparedness. Now you've ended up adding to the police... I think 80 million. kr. to the increased preparedness. It has happened after a meeting we had, where some of us questioned whether it was now the whole bill, and suddenly the bill got a little bigger. It says something about the fact that you can't make it up, and it says something about the fact that it's not sensible to do this job with the file now, but that you have to wait for the whole bill to be available. And then, on behalf of the Left, I would like to sign a political agreement that we will, of course, find that money and that we will have that task carried out. But with this model you only get part of the bill picked up; Mr. Peter Skaarup is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134153	Then it is Mrs Camilla Hersom for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134159	Thank you. So the rapporteur of the Left is standing on the floor and says that the rapporteur of the Left will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on which we are the author and the general rapporteur will reject it. That is where we have reached, and that is how the largest opposition party in the Folketing acts. That's amazing. I would like to ask a very simple question: does the Left recognise that there is a need for 100 million right now? kr. extra for the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134239	Right now, more than 100 million are needed. kr. I believe that the bill is already running into more than 100 million. kr. So there is not just a need for 100 million. DKK, more than 100 million is needed. kr. This is the debate we have, and it is the premise that it is strange that a serious and otherwise normally police-friendly party such as the Radical Left does not want to recognise. I am very puzzled about that. I would just like to say to Mrs Camilla here, as a small curiosity, that I believe that Mrs Camilla Hersom would stand up and criticise the Left, whether we had said that we would vote in favour of the proposal or we had said that we would vote against the proposal. Because that is the way it is when you go into such a debate and decide that you just want to criticise your political opponents, then you find a way to do it. I just think we should be pleased that we are voting in favour of the act and then put the slightly wrong attitude back in the drawer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134332	Mrs Camilla Hersom for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134335	However, whatever the amount we are talking about, it will come later because the Left behaves as the Left does, which means that we are many people who are now spending a good deal of Friday afternoon in the Chamber discussing something that will have no effect, because the Left is being saved by the fact that Enhedslisten and SF will ensure that the resolution tabled by the Left will not receive a majority. Then Mr. Karsten Lauritzen does not just confirm that the fact that this resolution has been tabled means that the money will come to the police later than they would otherwise?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134416	You can't deny that. I mean, if everyone had just said yes to the document, it would have been adopted before it is now adopted, but it does not make any difference. And I am actually a little outraged by Mrs Camilla Hersom's democratic disposition. It seems that Mrs Camilla Hersom and the Radical Left are sorry to have a debate in the Chamber, but all debates in the Chamber are important and relevant. They are not always moving anything in the short term, but in the long term they are an important part of our democratic society, and I think it is important to make it clear that the government will only pick up part of the bill, whereas the bourgeois bloc will pick up the whole bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134453	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134459	That's bullshit. But may I return to a quote. Shortly after the terrorist attack, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen's chairman, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: There is a need for us at Christiansborg to quickly give a boost to the police and intelligence services so that we can feel safe. ▪ Is Mr. Karsten Lauritzen agrees with his President that it is important to have a quick boost to the police and intelligence services so that we can feel safe?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134533	Yes, I fully agree with that. But it has turned out that this was not possible because the government did not want to finance its terrorist package. You can't just print bills and then don't finance them. There has been an incredibly constructive process over in the Ministry of Defence, where we have helped find and spend 400 million. kr. In the field of defence, that's why we've gone with us. That's the part of the terrorist package that's all about Defense Intelligence. Why do we have that? We do, because that part was funded. But it is as if there is a different understanding of it in the Social Democratic Party. There's some understanding that you can spend money you don't have. We can see that in this area and in a whole range of other areas. So we could have made that deal fast. We did not disagree on the substance; it was the fact that there was no money, that there was no funding, and therefore this piece is also as it does. It does not put things right in the years to come, because the government does not have that money and is apparently not willing to find it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134627	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134631	In a way, I feel a little sorry for Mr. Knox. Karsten Lauritzen, when he has to start his weekend with such a bad case here in Parliament and must stand on the platform to defend it. Because what's happening now is that it takes longer because the Left is dragging this over. It contradicts the President's words that it has to be done quickly and allows a matter to take months instead of clarifying it. The money's there. It is simply not true what Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says in his speech. What you're doing right now is saying no to 100 million new kroner, which the police management says is what they need, plus what they have in their own savings. Frankly, they want the Folketing to make a decision so that they can start spending that money. So the money is there, and it's wrong what Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says. I would just like to ask once again for confirmation that when this matter is not resolved and takes longer, which means that you cannot quickly feel safer, it is because we are now discussing and you do not say yes to the report in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134731	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134733	Sir. I don't want Jesper Petersen to feel sorry for me. I can totally reject what he says. I am glad that we have had this debate. That's why we've raised it. So, sir... Jesper Petersen doesn't have anything at all, but I do thank you for your sympathy. One of the problems is that, sir. Jesper Petersen says simply is not right. We have a political wish in blue that we should not feed the dog with its own tail. That's what you do with the record. It says on page 2, 50 million. kr. Of the money you spend comes from the police's savings. Funds that could have been used to combat foreign criminals, burglars and perilous crime are chosen here for terrorist preparedness. There is then only a clear political difference, and that is why we have not moved on. Mr. Jesper Petersen and the Social Democratic Party then acknowledge instead of pretending that we do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134827	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134830	Thank you. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that I have understood this correctly. On the one hand, we have red blocs that have put 100 million new crowns on the table to ensure our security and security, including for our Jewish minorities, after the terrorist attack. On the other hand, we have a blue block which says no to it and which is now taking a long debate in the Assembly to have that proposal removed, that is to say to have the 100 million. kr. Taken off the table again. The alternative is then, according to Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, that the police spend the money they need, and then we find them at the end of the year. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen also says that you can't just print bills without financing them. That is why we have added 100 million. kr. on the table, which we have financed, and on the other hand there is some blank cheque. I would really like to know: how should it be financed, sir? Karsten Lauritzen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417134928	I should like to begin by welcoming Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen to this debate. And now I will say nothing more than that I hope that Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen will continue to be part of the debate on legal policy, because then perhaps we will be able to get clarification about such basic things. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Read the motion for a resolution, you can see that it says: "The Parliament instructs the Minister of Justice to withdraw from the Finance Committee document 108 on reinforced anti-terrorism action and to present a comprehensive plan for the financing of counter-terrorism action, which ensures that the increased terrorist preparedness since the Copenhagen terrorist attack does not affect the police's general anti-terrorism efforts, in particular the bourgeois and personal-dangerous crime. So there is no question of this being the case, and that is where I have to say that Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen has not understood it correctly. We want to withdraw the file because we want to know what the total bill is and we want to finance the total bill, and when it is there and it may be in one month, it may also be in two months' time, and it may also be in the autumn we will be ready to find the money and, moreover, we will vote for it. Then we'll pick up the whole bill instead of just parts of the one that the government here is setting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135041	Another brief remark from Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135045	It was actually a very simple question that I ended by asking Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, namely: How exactly will you find the money to cover the blank cheque you print, so the police need to spend the money without having a fixed frame, when, as I have at least understood it, you are a member of a party that is in favour of zero growth and when already there is an uncertain future for many of our officers. If you produce the budgets for 2020, it is up to 600 cops who can smoke. I'm not sure how that funding is to be found. And no matter how loud Mr. Karsten Lauritzen speaks, I still do not think I have received an answer to: Where is the funding of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135126	Well, we have also had the view in the negotiations that there is some money in the defence sector that the government has spent on the terrorist package and that some of that funding might have to be moved around. By the way, there is still some money left that could be used. At the moment, we are seeing a dramatic fall in clients in the field of criminal justice. I think the evidence is record low, so there's money to be collected in that area. So there's money to pick up elsewhere in the system. It is also possible to choose the model chosen by the government to finance criminal justice, namely to reduce dental cleaning subsidies. We in the Left do not want to do that, but I think that if the government had put forward such funding, we would have looked at it positively in this context. But the point is that the government has not wanted to put forward any funding, because what the government wants is just a bill that needs to be printed and not picked up. And that's where we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135213	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135217	Well, that's unbelievable. Now, I hope that Mr. Knox doesn't... Karsten Lauritzen also wants me not to be active in the debate on legal policy. I can reveal that from the sidelines and with great wonder, I have followed what is going on here. And that's not gonna make it right, is it? Karsten Lauritzen infinity repeats that the funding is not there. I fully agree that the Left does not have any additional reserve on their draft budget for this year, but we do, and we are good for it! Because it's in situations like this that you have to be able to use them. So it is simply not true when Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says the money isn't there. Well, I'm just gonna ask you a very simple question, then, isn't it, sir? Karsten Lauritzen was even in the Chamber when the Minister had the floor in the first place. I heard the Minister say very clearly: we have a need here and now. It's urgent. This should be done a long time ago, but the Left is stalling it and making leg buckles, and then we have the long-term discussions in the autumn when a multi-year agreement is to be made. I heard the Minister say that very clearly. Since then, I have had to hear bourgeois rapporteurs messing around in the short and long term and making a lot of different explanations as to why this document cannot be supported. But Mr. Karsten Lauritzen did not confirm to me that he was in the Chamber and heard the Minister say exactly that when the debate started?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135323	I cannot confirm exactly the interpretation given by Mrs Astrid Krag, but I was present in the Chamber. And then you can go back and see exactly what the Minister said. I mean, the government's gonna start adopting this act and then push the rest of the bill to the multi-year criminal justice agreement. We have already been challenged there, because the government's financial bill shows that the grant to the police is going down by 0.5 billion. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. In the autumn, you will have to find 0.5 billion. kr., plus that you have to find an additional 400 million. kr. To fund this terrorist package. There we just say in all silence: should we not try to find some of that money now instead of waiting to find it? It is fair and legitimate for the government not to want it, but it is equally fair and legitimate for us to say: we do not want to do that because it is spending some money for which there is no funding. In conclusion, I would like to welcome Mrs Astrid Krag to the debate on legal policy. It is nice that there are so many of them that we do not see so often that there is a part of this, and I certainly hope that interest lasts because there is a need to focus on the area of legal policy where there are a lot of things to change when we hope to have a new government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135429	Mrs Astrid Krag, on behalf of the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135431	I am sorry to have to say that every time one of the bourgeois rapporteurs has spoken to explain what this resolution is really about, it leaves me confused at a higher level. I hear sir. Karsten Lauritzen says that there should be some more money now, so you will not be able to find any money now, but you want to do so, because you will be supporting the act in the end. Well, it just doesn't make any sense. I have never heard of anyone putting forward a motion for a resolution aimed at removing funds allocated on a dossier, in this case for very important police action. And then you say that if that money is not removed, you support it being set aside. Well, this is so amateuristic a political leghold, I understand that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen is alone in the hall. There are no Leftmen who want to back him up. Frankly, I find it very, very embarrassing, and I do not have a question to end with, because I am afraid that the answer will just leave me even more perplexed than I have quite frankly become from this discussion of the blue motions today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135525	In other words, if Mrs Astrid Krag does not understand the legal policy debate, I think she should find something else to deal with. And if she wants to understand it and understand what this is all about, she has to read the resolution. It is the same with many of those who have asked today. They may have read the title, but then they have not delved into the remarks. In general, I can recommend this, whether it is a motion for a resolution or a legislative proposal. The comments state, of course, that we want to withdraw it in order to put in place a comprehensive plan to fund the fight against terrorism, which will ensure that the increased terrorist preparedness since the Copenhagen attack does not affect the police's ordinary crime-fighting efforts, in particular the civil-dangerous crimes. I think it's pretty clear what we want. I think if you read this, you're not confused unless you want to be. And if you want to be confused, I think you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135610	Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135613	Thank you so much. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen talks a lot about future funding etc., even though the piece we discuss most is about 2015. But let us at least talk about the future. When we discussed the Finance Act for this year, Mr. Peter Christensen, asked if the police were exempt from zero growth if it stood to the left. There Mr. Peter Christensen, that it wasn't necessarily the police. I would just like to know whether this is still true when I ask the rapporteur of the Left here today. Is it still true that if the Left takes over government, the police will not be exempt from zero growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135658	Well, in our financial bill we have set an additional 250 million. kr. to a security package. And, of course, it has to be said that our financial bill came before we got this terror, so you can raise the debate on how the money you want to allocate to terrorism is related to the security package, right? I think that is fair to legitimise. We have clearly signalled that we want to give more funds and more resources to the police, by adding 250 million. kr. off on our financial bill. But it is true that when you have a spending peak, there is less money than if you just allow the public sector to grow and taxes and taxes to grow. If you do that, you have more money to distribute than if you say they shouldn't grow. We welcome this challenge because we believe it is necessary to ensure long-term funding for the Danish welfare society. I believe that on long stretches we agree with the Radical Left in that, but having a spending peak is not an obstacle to adding more resources to individual areas. But you have to find the money somewhere, and so are we willing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135757	Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135801	I really think that was a very good answer, but I would just like to ask: has it been decided to exempt the police as a whole? I believe that in the past the Left has talked about a few areas that would be exempted from the expenditure peak. Has the Left decided to exempt police and the fight against terrorism in general from the spending freeze?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135825	In other words, there are some general mechanisms and just as this government has not chosen to exempt the police from the general efficiency requirements that are in the public sector and in the state, I do not think we will see that we are exempting specific areas either. But we have clearly said that we want to give priority to the police, by making a safety package of 250 million. kr. in our financial law game. So I think that sends out a clear political signal. However, I believe that we are putting the demand on the police and all other public authorities to make it more efficient and, as far as possible, to solve the problems more cheaply. We have to go further on the liter, but at the same time we want to give priority to some things in the police. That is why we have made this package of security in our financial legislation, and I think that is quite reasonable economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135907	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135914	Thank you. On the one hand, in his rapporteur's speech here, the rapporteur of the Left says that there is a lack of money now and here for the police in Copenhagen to solve crimes, assaults, break-ins, etc. On the other hand, the rapporteur from the Left says that it is not really a problem that there will be some extra time before more money comes, because we have not spent the entire budget of the year, and if there is a lack of money, you can just take it from December and October. Both can't be right. Well, then, sir. Karsten Lauritzen does not help me to understand what one of the two arguments put forward by the rapporteur of the Left is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135950	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417135952	Thank you. I am very pleased about that question, because I think some people have misunderstood something either intentionally or not. Mrs Pernille Skipper said in her rapporteur's speech that we should vote in favour of this act now, because there was no pay for overtime, and there could be no improvement in the safety of Jewish communities and that it was just above that. Then I simply asked if that was correct. It's not like the police can't pay for overtime until we've adopted this act, because that's not how the police's finances work. But, of course, it is true that if you are to carry out that task overall, you have to give the police some money in this financial year, and there you can choose different models for it. The government has chosen one model. We say: let us wait a little and see how much the bill is really going to be, and then let us add the funds to the police. I think that, apart from some liquidity things, it doesn't make much difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140052	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140054	I didn't get much smarter. On the one hand, the rapporteur on behalf of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group is suggesting that there is a lack of money now and here for breaking and entering, assaulting and so on. On the other hand, the rapporteur from the Left says that if there is a lack of money, you can just take it from December and October. Well, both can't be right. So the Left cannot explain why it is that you do not want to be involved in funding the money now and here, which is obviously needed unless, of course, you have the view that the answer is that you can just spend the money that would otherwise be spent in October and December, which is a rather strange way of managing the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140140	In other words, if a public authority is to carry out an additional task, either the resources must be taken from the existing budget or some new ones must be added to it. And then, of course, you can discuss when you get these new resources. We're saying that in connection with this extra task with the police, they need resources. Then the government says: we agree with that, but we add only half of what may be needed, or two thirds at least not all, because we do not know the extent of the bill that will lie. There we have a different view of it, and that is that we want to find out how big that bill is and then add that money to the police. And that we say politically to the police that they must make the bill, and then we pay it, I think they can manage both in their accounting system and in the political reality in which the National Police and the National Police Commissioner operate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140227	Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the proposers. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140251	The debate is open. The first speaker is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140313	Thank you. And let me take this opportunity to reiterate what I have said in other contexts as well: I strongly distance myself from those who join international terrorist organisations. I strongly reject the so-called Syrian warriors who leave Denmark, turn their backs on our society and our democracy and join the Islamic State, for example in Syria and Iraq. I shall not conceal the fact that I consider it one of my most important tasks as the country's Minister of Justice to ensure that the Danish police and the authorities have at all useful and effective tools to prevent Danish citizens from leaving and participating in the atrocities and disgusts that Islamic State is behind. Basically, I do not understand the mechanism whereby we can turn our backs on our free, open, democratic society and join an organisation that has so much and so many lives on its conscience. We would like to put an end to the continuing departure from Denmark, and I am also pleased with the support that has been given by the Danish Parliament to our passport legislation, so that Danish authorities and the police can now take the passport from people if there is a presumption that they are going to join the Islamic State in Syria or Iraq, for example. I have also indicated on other occasions that I am not opposed to the idea of introducing a more general entry ban in relation to Syria and Iraq, and when I have put it that way, it is because I would very much hate to reject some ideas if they prove to be useful. That approach is also reflected in the government's terrorist initiative, in which we write that the Ministry of Justice has started to investigate whether and, if so, how such an arrangement can be devised. I have said it from the platform before, and I am happy to do it again: this is not an easy decision to make. There are a number of considerations that need to be considered. The motion for a resolution we are debating today illustrates this very well. It also has far-reaching consequences. I am not thinking here of the foreign fighters that you want to hit. I am thinking of journalists, relief workers and people who have family relations in Syria and Iraq, who will also be affected by the proposal here. Of course, when you legislate, you have to look at whether there can be any unintended consequences for people other than the target group you really want to address. It is not because I do not really believe that what the opposition wants here is sensible, because I think that is the case, but let me give an example of why it is not just that one can legislate in this area. If you read the motion for a resolution, it must be borne in mind that in future it will be the case that, on the basis of an application, the Ministry of Justice will have to decide whether a proposed journey has a recognised purpose, and this also applies to journalists. Therefore, one has to ask oneself the question: should it be the case that, in order to be able to carry out press work in Syria and Iraq, Danish journalists can only travel with the permission of the Ministry of Justice? For example, it would. implies that a journalist who goes to make a critical article about, for example, the Danish State's commitment to the fight against the Islamic State must inform the Ministry of Justice in advance of his journey. It then raises a number of questions of principle, no matter how you turn it, because it is usually the case that Danish journalists, for example, can travel completely freely in the world, if otherwise the regimes and countries to which they travel allow it. We don't regulate it from here. So that raises some questions, including with regard to the freedom of the press, which we need to consider further. As the Folketing knows, we have taken a number of actions in this area. There is, on the one hand, our passport legislation which is now in operation. The parties of the Folketing have jointly adopted an anti-radicalism plan. The Government has asked the Criminal Code Council to assess whether the rules in force in the Criminal Code provide adequate safeguards in order to counteract participation in and recruitment to armed conflicts. And as the Folketing knows, I have chosen to advance some of the work, so we among other things. The question of treason can be resolved, what I consider it to be, if you now go to Syria and fight for the Islamic State and thus against our Danish soldiers. In other words, we are well at it. We are certainly not finished, because we have a number of Danes who have left, and I wonder if anyone is planning to do so. That is why, as a starting point, I am very reluctant to reject ideas because I believe that we constantly need to adjust our defences against terrorism and against the risk that returned foreign fighters can represent. So I would like to thank the opposition for keeping this issue on the agenda. The government is not going to support the proposal, but it is basically because we are in the process of examining how, if you are going to do this, you are doing it the wisest way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140842	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment, but thank you for the speech in the first place. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140853	Thank you. It is true that it will, of course, be far-reaching for a great many people, in relation to what is in force today, but it is because we believe that this is an extraordinary situation and some major challenges that we face when we talk about combating terrorism and holy warriors, if you can call them that, because I do not know what is so sacred about them. But it is an extraordinary proposal. It is good that the government is investigating it, but now the government has been investigating it for some time now, and in this way it can be said that it is a very thorough government, because it is investigating many things for a long time. But when does the Minister for Justice expect to find out what they think about the opposition's proposal, that is, whether it is something that can be taken forward? Is there a time frame, a time limit for when you're done investigating this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140939	I certainly expect us in the government to take a position on this issue before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417140945	Then I would like to thank the Minister. And then we start with the others, and from the proposers it is first Mr. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417141006	Thank you. The background to this motion for a resolution, tabled by the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the Left, is, after all, the clear threat that we see from radical Islamists in Denmark, in Europe at all, in the Middle East, almost everywhere we see. We know, among other things. from the police intelligence service that a visit and training in terror in these conflict zones in Syria and Iraq causes the threat to rise in this country. More than 100 people have travelled from Denmark to Syria and Northern Iraq to fight side by side with the Islamic State, and I am of the opinion that the prevention and removal of passports and other good initiatives can, of course, prevent some people from travelling, but as we have seen, of course, not all. Nor do I hope that a ban on entering and staying in Syria and northern Iraq, or for that matter in other war-torn and terror-torn areas, will prevent everyone from leaving. In our view, however, we must also use as broad a palette as possible to minimise the risk of terrorism in Denmark. The difference between the proposal that has been put forward here and the proposals that have been made by the government, which we have supported and voted in favour of, is that, as it stands today, we have only a very small opportunity to sanction Danish citizens or people staying in this country who, as it were, avoid prevention, passport involvement and other good measures and yet travel with the aim of receiving terrorist training and participating in acts of war and terrorism. And a ban on staying in terrorist zones, for example. Syria and Northern Iraq would, of course, provide the authorities with an opportunity to prosecute and punish persons who, without prior authorisation from the authorities, are present in the areas concerned. We then put in the proposal here a penalty of up to 6 years in prison for Danish citizens who, without prior approval, are in the predefined areas. And for people staying here in Denmark, the permission to stay in Denmark will then automatically lapse. Of course, there will be a question for Danish citizens that there will then be judicial review, and this will also be possible, according to this proposal, when people are staying in Denmark who are affected by the withdrawal of the residence permit. As the Minister has said, there may be a lot of challenges with this proposal, and it is not the intention that the proposal should hit the many people who have a noble and, in many cases, very laudable purpose to stay in, for example, Syria and Northern Iraq. Of course, war correspondents and relief workers should not be prevented from doing their work, even if they are Syria and Northern Iraq. That is why it is not intended here either that it should be the Folketing or some random folk court to decide who can go where. We will leave this to relevant authorities: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the two intelligence services, also in cooperation with other relevant authorities. The criteria for issuing a ban must be objective, they must be based on a concrete assessment of the conditions in the areas concerned, including, of course, the risk that people staying in these areas may pose a threat when they return to Denmark. So all in all, the bourgeois parties want this proposal to equip the authorities with another tool, because there are other and good tools that can be used as an authority in the fight against terrorism on Danish soil.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417141405	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417141418	Thank you. It is totally unacceptable when young people go on their own to participate in illegal acts of war, and that is why we must try to stop their departure by all means. Not least, we must stop the radicalised and extreme attitudes behind the desire to participate in so-called holy war. With this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want a ban on Danish nationals and residents entering Syria and Iraq and want effective means of response in breach of the ban. Let me start by saying that it will not be possible to meet the deadline set out in the proposal. Having said that, however, I would like to say that, as I have said, we Socialists are very prepared to stop the people who join extremist combat troops in Syria or Iraq, for example, and it was also on that basis that last year we presented a proposal to ensure that Danish citizens can have the passport removed if there is a suspicion of leaving for this purpose. The proposal should ensure that foreign nationals cannot be admitted to Denmark if they have been away. That proposal has been adopted, it is already working, we have seen the first person to have his passport withdrawn. At the same time, we Social Democrats are also open to a more general entry ban in relation to Syria and Iraq and, as the Government's proposal shows, a strong protection against terrorism from February 2015, the Ministry of Justice is currently examining to what extent it is possible to implement that proposal in the form of legislation. After all, it must be in everyone's interest for the legal basis and a practical model for handling the entry ban to be in place before we adopt it. Let me repeat that we Social Democrats strongly reject all those who join radicalised groups and who go to war, among others. Syria and Iraq. On behalf of the Socialists, Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten, I have to say that we do not support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417141648	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417141704	Thank you. It has already been explained, but it is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution banning the entry of Danish nationals and residents into Syria and Northern Iraq, and there is also the possibility with the proposal that other countries and areas where you cannot enter may come in. And then it is also a question of ensuring that there are effective responses to violations of such a ban. There is, and has been, a terrorist threat to Denmark for a long time. I think that is clear to everyone. Unfortunately, there are people and Muslim groups in which the hatred of everything that is Danish is very deep, one must say. Sadly, their hatred is sometimes transformed into terror. It may be in Denmark, or it may be abroad, in connection with going down and fighting for Islamic State or other terrorist movements. We must respond to that and we must take it seriously. That is why we are making this proposal on the part of the opposition. We very much hope in the Danish People's Party that at some point we can translate this into concrete legislation, and I think it is good that the Minister for Justice is open to looking at it. I'd like it to be looked at a little faster. I think it's a little slow in the Justice Department to respond to this proposal. We have, of course, put forward a number of other proposals on the part of the opposition, which we would also very much like to see the Minister of Justice look at, but I hope that, after all, we in the Danish Parliament will be able to agree at some point to implement this into the legislation, so that there is no doubt that we are hitting down hard on people who are going to, for example. Islamic State and wish to commit terror and also pose an increased terrorist risk according to our intelligence service if they return to Denmark. The good thing about this proposal is that in some cases people can be prevented from going out, but if they go out, we can also have a better opportunity to punish them if they come home and if they are Danish citizens. And we can also prevent them from returning completely if they have a residence permit in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party think this is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417141900	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417141909	Thank you. Already in 2013 it turned out that as many as 65 people from Denmark had participated in the civil war in Syria, and the figure has since grown. We all know that. PET therefore estimates that at least 110 people have gone to Syria or Northern Iraq to join the war criminals of the Islamic State, and that about half have returned to Denmark, we also know. It has created a deeply serious security threat to Danish society, to Danish citizens and indeed to Danish democracy. PET concludes that the so-called Syrian warriors are dangerous to Denmark because they are particularly willing to use violence and because they have received training to enable them to launch large-scale terrorist attacks. At the same time, there is much evidence that the legislation that has been implemented is not at all effective enough. The prosecution of returned Syrian warriors lags seriously behind, and it may not really be so strange. An entry ban makes much better sense than the exit ban that has been imposed. Firstly, this could lead to more convictions in the Danish courts, as the burden of proof can be lifted more easily, but frankly it will also be a fairer instrument in a democratic society such as ours. That is no more restriction of freedom than is absolutely necessary, and of course we have a dilemma here. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the exit ban. The motion for a resolution we are debating here specifically proposes that we should have a ban on Danish nationals and residents entering certain areas of terror and war, including Syria and Northern Iraq, without the prior permission of the Danish authorities, and it is proposed that a violation of the ban should be dealt with with with significant consequences, up to six years in prison and the automatic withdrawal of the residence permit for resident foreigners. Specifically, the scheme can be arranged in such a way that the Ministry of Justice, on the recommendation of the Ministry of Education, PET and FE, establishes a list of countries and areas covered by the ban. The list must, of course, be clearly communicated to the public, and it is important that Parliament has the opportunity to remove areas and countries on the list regardless of the Minister's decision. All Danes wishing to travel to the countries and areas on the list must apply for permission, and probably in the Ministry of Justice. Such an arrangement will make it easier to punish radicalised Syrian warriors after returning to Denmark, but it also means that for example. Imams that encourage young people to go to Syria or Northern Iraq can be punished for contributing to this deed. Of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal here, on which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417142222	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417142230	Something's broken in Denmark. When young people born and raised in Denmark can be so radicalised that they travel to Syria and Northern Iraq to fight for IS against Western democracy and for Sharia and Islamism, then something has broken down in Denmark. That tells us, when such people go out, that people among us have a loyalty that lies elsewhere in the world • a loyalty that they are willing to die for thousands of kilometres away from Denmark. Later on, the savages return, and I think there are many of us who think: what are they doing here, and are we not risking their mad fanaticism here in our country? PET has said that foreign fighters are one of the biggest security threats at home, and when we know at the same time that one in five Syrian warriors from Denmark has been imprisoned, it is a clear signal to us that the problem is serious and therefore it should also have far-reaching consequences to go. Denmark lost its innocence after the terrorist attack on 14 and 15 February, and since then we have seen how radicalisation was more far-reaching than any of us could imagine in our wildest imagination. The first step was to take the passport from radicalised people who could potentially go out, but we also need to clearly signal that if you go out as a foreign fighter, you have to be punished when you come back, and that is why we have tabled this resolution. We have noted that the government would like to look at it, we welcome it, and we hope that the government will soon brag about with its proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417142401	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417142412	It's gonna be ultraultra cards. I naturally sign for the support of the proposers, but also for that what should we call the relatively positive reception by the Minister of Justice and the Socialist rapporteur. I fully agree, of course, that we must examine and make sure that the legal basis is in order. This is also something we have tried in other contexts with other proposals and received a completely different response from the Minister for Justice and the Socialist rapporteur. However, I agree that the legal basis must be examined, and I hope that we can agree that all proposals that are being dealt with in this Chamber should be dealt with. Then I just want to say it's better late than never. This proposal has been known since September. We handed it over to the Minister for Justice at the beginning of December, so you have, as it were, already had time to examine the legal basis. But better late than never, and we of course want to keep the Minister of Justice up to date on the fact that there will be a final position from the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice before Parliament goes on summer vacation. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417142525	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. It does not appear that anyone is objecting, and then I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150417142542	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 21 April 2015, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the same website.
