ParlaMint-DK_20150414130050	The meeting is open. The Prime Minister (Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt) has informed me that she wishes pursuant to Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Folketing a written statement on the Kingdom Community 2015. 15). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 5 May 2015. There is today the following review: Claus Hjort Frederiksen (V), Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Søren Espersen (DF), Helle Løvgreen Mølvig (RV), Annette Vilhelmsen (SF), Finn Sørensen (EL), Villum Christensen (LA), Per Stig Møller (KF), Uffe Elbæk (ALT), Johan Lund Olsen (IA), Doris Jakobsen (SIU), Edmund Joensen (SP) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF) and others.: Question No. F 36 (What can the Prime Minister tell us about the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community as a follow-up to his statement on the Kingdom Community 2015?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150414130222	I shall give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414130233	As most people know, the government is very concerned about protecting Denmark from terrorism, and that is why the government has put forward some very concrete proposals to strengthen Denmark's defence against terrorism. We propose, among other things: an expansion of the police action force and the bodyguard force, enhanced monitoring of the extremist environments and better tools to obtain information on terrorist plans against Denmark. The government will give more money to the police here and now, and of course we can only do that with the consent of the Danish Parliament. In fact, it should be easy enough, because the government has already put money on the budget bill for unforeseen expenditure. We have the money. The Left simply has to say yes, but the Left wants us to discuss it all again, and that is very strange. It was a rather different message coming from the Left right after the terrorist attack. It was simply not possible to do so quickly enough, but apparently it is no longer a matter of urgency. Of course, what comes up as a question is: what is the Left's problem? The government's position is clear: it is important to follow up the terrorist attack in Copenhagen quickly. Denmark needs better protection against terrorism. Jewish fellow citizens need better protection. We have to act. The situation also shows how crucial and necessary it is that we, as a society, have the opportunity to deal with extraordinary and unforeseen costs. The government can do that. But you can't actually do that if you're working on zero growth, and that's where the Left has a challenge. We are in a special situation and we should act together; everyone should shoulder the responsibility, and I think that the Left has so far failed. Unfortunately, the protection against terrorism is not the only area where the opposition is helping to slow down major decisions, although we should be able to agree. Last week it turned out that we could not reach an agreement on upper secondary education. Otherwise, we had the opportunity to improve education, to give young people a more simple and transparent choice, so that, among other things, pupils. could have more time with the teachers. These are improvements on which the government and the bourgeois parties, as I have to understand, agree far along the way. That is why I am also surprised that everything was thrown on the floor just because there was a requirement that could not be met. It was a demand which must be understood that the opposition does not even agree with itself. Left and Conservatives want a grade requirement of 4 for high school, the Liberal Alliance wants one of 7, and then the Danish People's Party wants it to be 6. There it is just to point out that, for example, if you do. If you require an average grade of 6, it will exclude three out of ten applicants, and if you turn it into a real figure, it will immediately hit 16,000 interested young people. The government has proposed a character requirement of 2; the same as we have on vocational training. In fact, we have also offered to remove the access requirement completely from the negotiations. But that was not good enough for the opposition either. Of course, I find that a pity. It is sad for the tens of thousands of young people who apply to upper secondary education every year, and it is a pity that we could not complete it. Basically it has to be said that things are going better in Denmark. The economy is under control, new jobs have been created, we can afford to develop our welfare, and we have worked hard to achieve all that. But we are not in the end, and it is therefore a pity that the opposition seems to have chosen to sit in a corner instead of taking the co-responsibility that they have taken in the past to take Denmark forward. I think that is a pity, and I hope that you will come to your senses, because we still have a great deal to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414130652	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and then we move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round the questioner and the Prime Minister have both two minutes' speaking time, and then there are two rounds where the questioner and minister have one minute's speaking time. The first in line is sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414130709	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Prime Minister's opening remarks. After all, there will be a debate in this Chamber about a terrorist package, so let me just make it clear that, of course, the Left has both the willingness to pay and the ability to pay. As such, we have no ambition to discuss it all again, as the Prime Minister says, but we have an ambition to discuss it once and for all in a proper context. We were doing this in the Ministry of Justice, after which the Minister of Justice interrupted the negotiations, and what we need to get clear answers to is what level of funding the government is counting on in 2016. Because it is very nice to put a little money upstairs, but if they are put on top of something that is a deep, deep cliff and that means that the ordinary police lack resources in 2016, it doesn't help much. We have the will to pay. In our draft budget, we set aside EUR 0.25 billion. kr. for a safety package such as: This can be targeted, but it is a theme that we will return to when the matter comes to the Parliamentary Chamber. I would actually like to start somewhere else now, when it is question time with the Prime Minister, namely a place where I think I lack a clear answer. And then people sit around and think, "What's he asking?" For it can be anything between heaven and earth, when it is just something where he lacks a particularly clear answer from previous questions hours. But I would like to address the DKK 454,215 which has also been discussed here before, i.e. the amount that a cash benefit family with three children can receive in total public benefits. We think it is too much, and that is more than when we were in government ourselves. If this family is someone who comes from outside, it's getting closer to something that looks like 10,000 kroner. more a month than when we were in government, and that is also why we are going to vote to introduce a cash aid ceiling and then give tax relief at the bottom to ensure that it pays better to work. I have tried several times in these questions to get the Prime Minister to answer the simple question, whether the current level, i.e. the DKK 454,215. for this family type, it's a different amount for another family type is appropriate. It has never really succeeded, but I still think I have gradually found out that the Social Democrats think it is quite right that a cash aid family can have something close to 0.5 million. kr., in total public services, and therefore I would actually like to start somewhere else and, in addition to this theme, ask the question whether the Prime Minister has any concrete proposals to ensure that more Danes become self-supporting rather than live on public transfers if her government continues after the next election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414130954	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414130957	Thank you. Well, now it started with that, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen wanted to discuss the police's finances, and I'm actually glad about that. There's something weird about this case. We say: Well, we have a box for unforeseen expenses, we have that in the Ministry of Finance, and the money we would like to spend on the expenses we have here and now in 2015, on the basis that we have increased preparedness, but what is so weird is that the Left is going to drag that case into delay. They will not only be involved in making that decision, and it has to be said that it is a question of the Left dragging it off when, as it had been normal to do, they could not support this appropriation in the Committee on Finance, but wanted it in the Parliamentary Assembly. But peace be to it. I know that the Minister for Justice is very much looking forward to the debate on Friday, and we also hope that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen himself wants to take part in the debate that he has put so much emphasis on. At least we look forward to it from the government's side. So for this question hour question and answer: Well, I've answered this question a lot of times, and those who basically lack answers to how the cash benefits system should look are left. Because there has now been a huge campaign about whether it is worthwhile to work, and the Left has made a huge campaign about some cash aid couples who earn a certain amount of money. But first, I would like to say to what I do not think is so clear from the Left campaign: that we are talking about 1,000 families, 1,000 families, where both parents are on cash benefits and have three children or more: is it really fair to exhibit these 1,000 families? I feel convinced that if you went into their homes and talked to them, you would hear some probably heartbreaking stories that these people are having a hard time biting their way into the labour market. That may then seem reasonable or unreasonable. Apparently, the left thinks it's fair. Next, the Left says that it is not worthwhile for this family to work, and that is quite simply misleading, because it can. In general, it should be borne in mind that it is far better to work now under my government than it could at the time, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. Work pays better, and this family on cash benefits will earn in the vicinity of DKK 1,000. a month by getting to work. I know that Lars Løkke Rasmussen thinks that is only half a pair of shoes, but that does not change the fact that for people who live on cash benefits and do not have much money, it is of course an incentive to enter the labour market. What has been the hallmark of this debate at all is that we do not get an answer from the Left as to what we want and, of course, that the Left has very consistently used figures that are not correct, and it is clear that this naturally disturbs the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414131241	Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414131243	Well, I am pleased to hear the Prime Minister once again take credit for political reforms that we have done together. Because it is true that we made a tax reform in 2014; I think it left early retirement with an amount of about DKK 10,000 available. less than they already had, and a director's family with about 50,000 kroner. more a year than it already had, but it also meant that it would pay better to work because we increased the employment allowance, something the Social Democratic Party opposed when we invented the employment allowance. And that means, of course, that where there are 330,000 Danes today, for whom there is no significant gain in working, that figure falls to a quarter of a million when what we have agreed together is phased in. I think that is too much, and that is why I have said very clearly that we are going to vote for more tax cuts at the bottom. Now we did not get an answer as to whether the government has any plans after the next elections to ensure that there are fewer people on public transfers. And then I could move on to the next question, which follows on from that, namely whether the Prime Minister has any concrete proposals to further reduce taxes on people with small incomes beyond what we have already agreed together, or should we also be prepared in this area to ensure that the Socialists have no forward-looking plans to ensure that work is better worthwhile?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414131401	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414131403	Again, it sounds a little like sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen doesn't really have an overview of the numbers, because it keeps referring to the fact that there are more on transfer income or whatever it may be. But the truth is that there are actually 50,000 fewer people on transfer income with us than we saw before. So it is actually very sensible for us to move in the right direction. In addition to that, I think that there is a slightly wrong picture of what the Left actually meant in relation to tax policy, because everyone remembers when we were doing tax negotiations back in 2012 • it is one of the only times that the Left has actually put its policy forward openly so that it can be assessed during this parliamentary term. That's why it was exciting to see what the Left really came with. And it was, of course, tax relief for the most prosperous in our society • over and over again, because it was the same that happened when tax reform was made back in 2009. And we were particularly pleased that the Left wanted to join in, but of course also that the Left would help to increase the employment allowance, which, of course, benefits people with basic wage incomes, and could also agree with us that we should increase the extra for single parents so that it would pay better to work. So it is true that the Left has been involved in a tax reform which ensures that it is better to work, and I am glad that it is admitted today that it has contributed to it, because since the truth is that it is better to work today than it could at the time, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister, so it would suit the Left also to put it in some of the many ads running around at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414131536	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414131537	We are happy to admit all the places where we, together with the government, have made sensible political decisions. Now I have a strong feeling that we are approaching a parliamentary election. Maybe this is the last question time for the Prime Minister, and that's why I'm a little interested in what the future will bring. Now I have asked two questions: what will happen in order to get fewer people on public transfers? There are no forward-looking plans. What needs to be done to reduce the tax on people with small incomes? There are no forward-looking plans. I have explained what is the policy of the Left. I give up getting answers. I would just like to move on to one more subject where I would like to see it for the future debate, now that we have to move on, of course it would be nice to know where we are going and where it would be nice to have some answers. Health: At the moment, the Prime Minister's image of advertising across the country is being seen with a message that waiting times have become shorter and we need to move on. I would like to sign for that too, in other words both for them to be shorter and for us to move on. As far as I remember, waiting times were reduced by something similar to 36 days while I was responsible for the Danish health service, and then the pace has been taken off after the change of government. It has probably decreased further 4-5 days, and that is of course also good. But that does not shake the fact that we still have waiting hours in the vicinity of 50 days on average. That is why we have a concrete proposal to reinstate the right that, if you have to wait for more than 30 days, you have to have the opportunity to be dealt with elsewhere. This is a very concrete promise, a very concrete proposal which gives me the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister who would like to go further: where does the Prime Minister want to go? What concrete new proposals does the Prime Minister bring into the forthcoming election campaign beyond the plan we already know about the 6.5 billion? kr., which has already been adopted? What other plans, concrete ideas, visions for the Danish health service does the Prime Minister have?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414131732	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414131733	Now I was very surprised. I must have been unaware for a moment, because the Left says that they have explained their policy. It would be very nice, I think, for the people and us here in the Folketing if we could sort it out. I mean, what's the Left's policy with regard to cash aid? How much is it going down? The modern ceiling on cash benefits that we hear about all the time is apparently so modern that you can't describe it at all as modern as it is. So what exactly is the policy of the Left in relation to cash aid? I also felt that the Left hesitated a little last week when there was a debate on early retirement. The Danish Employers' Association proposed much lower early retirement pension than we know today.What is really the policy of the Left in this area? It'd be nice to get a handle on it. What exactly is Left tax policy? Because for a long time now we have heard many different reports on the tax policy of the Left. Then it is the most prosperous who will have tax relief; then it is the companies in the North Sea that will have tax relief. Who really needs tax relief? Some days, then, it is also the ordinary wage earners who are going to receive tax relief through a higher rate of employment allowance, but how high is the employment allowance actually to be? This is, of course, linked to the next question, which the Left has not answered: how much should it actually pay to work? The left has said that you only make 6 kroner. more per hour if you go from being on cash benefits to being in the labour market. Should that amount be 8 kroner, and if so, what will it cost? What is the Left's tax plan? So, all good examples of what is most lacking in Danish politics are answers from the Left to the challenges of the future. Then we come to government policy and the question that was. Well, first of all, our basic plan is two things that I think are important: one of the innovations in Danish politics is that, unlike previous governments, we observe the budgets. It is something quite exciting and new that we are doing and which then also means that the economy is now much better managed. Well, you didn't do that back then, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Prime Minister and in Anders Fogh Rasmussen's time, so he respected the budgets. That is what we are doing, first of all. Secondly, however, we have also organised an economic policy that will apply until 2020, when we have organised things so that we can spend a little more money each year in the public sector. It is not gold and green forests, it is not luxury anywhere, but it is 3 billion. kr. Every year so we can develop our welfare. We have even put labels on what the money is to be spent on health, it is about young people. That is what we want to develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132011	I have to remind you of the speaking time. You're very talkative, but we have an hour in total. But the Prime Minister must also be allowed to answer. ) Yes, that's it. Next round, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132029	Thank you. I am not going to take the President's line. I am just a little annoyed that the Prime Minister was not given just the extra speaking time that had given me an answer to my question, which was: what concrete initiatives are being taken in the field of health to improve patient rights? There was no one there. We have an ambition to give the Danes the extended free elections back after 1 month, but perhaps we could go deeper into health now that the Prime Minister is talking warmly in that area. We could take a look at the cancer field. We are going to the elections now that there is a lively interest in what we mean. We are going to the polls at our cancer plan IV, which we would like to use to provide patients with a patient-responsible doctor, so there is in a sense one to hold hands when you are going through this complicated process. This is a proposal which, among other things, has to be considered. The fight against cancer has even spoken very warmly about it. The Socialists have also spoken about cancer. It was a little tricky about the willingness to pay when the government last made finance laws. The government dropped fewer resources for health in 2015 than we were ready for, but don't worry about it. What I really want to ask is forward-looking. Does the Prime Minister have any new concrete proposals on how the government, the Social Democrats, will improve cancer treatment if there is also a Social Democrat sitting in the Ministry of Health after the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132158	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132200	- Sir, you can. Lars Løkke Rasmussen thinks we do. It is not quite true that I did not answer the question, because I was asked to answer what the government's priorities are in the future. It is true that we have an incredible number of good results that we would like to tell you about, but of course we also have ambitions for the future. One of the ambitions that divides the Left and the government is that we are not working on zero growth in the public sector. That makes all the difference. Because that means that where the Left has a large around zero every year to develop the public sector, the government has 3 billion. kr. it is fully financed per year and there are no unpaid bills to develop the public sector. This also means, of course, and I think most people can see that we have better opportunities to develop the public sector precisely in order to improve our service, and we do not have to say goodbye to a great many people in the public sector. It is just a pity that the Left does not want to tell the voters how things are connected. But we have made it very clear that this is our plan. One of the things that we are going to spend a great deal of money on and, of course, much more money than the Left, when you have zero growth, is of course health. Over the coming years we have set aside just over 6 billion. kr. to develop our healthcare system from 2015 to 2018, and that money is not coming near to having when you have zero growth. We have given patients the right to rapid investigation for both physical and mental illnesses, which means, of course, that people can clarify more quickly what is wrong with them and, of course, get started with the necessary treatment. That is a good result. Of course, we want to put the patient at the centre of the treatment, and we are also working to counteract increasing inequalities in health. It is true that we have done some things significantly differently, and we will, of course, continue to do so. We have abolished the deduction for private health insurance, and we have done so in order to strengthen our common health care system. We have been very concerned about lifting psychiatry and have lifted psychiatry by 2.2 billion. kr. I can see now that the President stands up and is good examples of targeted things that we have set in motion, but which are not finished. These are targeted things that we can do because we are not working on zero growth and that the Left will not come near to being able to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132427	Here you go, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132428	It may be that it is just me, but I do not think I really received any suggestions as to what will be done in concrete terms in the future. There was this talk, which we have heard so many times, about what you can do when you don't have a cost stop. Then you shouldn't say goodbye to any public servants. It could be exciting just to ask the Prime Minister just in a small brackets to tell me how many fewer public employees there are today than there were when I left the Prime Minister's Office. It could be very nice just to get it on the table. I know the answer. That's a little 14,000. Two out of three municipalities today have less money to run for than they had when I was prime minister, and in those municipalities they dream of a stop to spending, and they dream of the idea that they could have just the money they had. But that is just a page note, because what you can and cannot do is also a question of how to prioritise. And let me take up a theme here. For one of the places where the Prime Minister went to an election last time at something that actually survived the meeting with the black tower was the question of how much we need to spend on development aid. The vote was taken on the use of 1%. of GNP. It was written down in the government base: the government will adjust development aid upwards so that it will return to 1% over a number of years. of GNP. I think the current level is 0.83%, which is equivalent to 17.5 billion. kr. It is undoubtedly something from the ambition. In relation to this priority debate, I would like to say openly here that we are proposing to cut 2.5 billion. kr. in development aid, which we would rather spend on something else. I assume that the government will achieve its objectives, and that is why my question, which is also relevant to what we can do with health and what we can do with the area of the elderly, must be: will the next year be the government's own ambition? Is it the case that next year you will spend 3.6 billion? kr. more than this year, on development aid? Because then the economic difference between the Prime Minister and me is quickly eaten up. Is it next year, or when is it, the government is ready to spend 3.6 billion. kr. more on development aid in order to achieve its objective? Lone Loklind): Yes, please! ) We will not be involved in this. We'd rather reduce in this area to spend the money at home, among other things. on an armoring of our health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132646	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132647	Many questions are being asked, but I am glad that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen did not start with the ritual that now the question is not answered, for it is done. And it is quite clear that those who do not answer questions like this in the public eye, it does not have to be here in the Parliamentary Chamber, the Left, who refuse to give an answer to anything; it is tax policy, health policy, cash aid, and I could go on. There are a lot of unanswered questions. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen started a little by talking about how things stand in relation to municipal service costs and employees. And it is true that we had to do a rather hard braking after that first Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen and then Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen had been at the helm. For at that time the budgets were not respected, which means that in the years around 2009 there were really many employees in the public sector. But when we start something new, as we have done, which is beginning to comply with the budgets, then it is clear that when you have not been able to keep the budgets for many years and simply have spent just one year, I think there was a year spent 5 billion. kr. Too much in addition to what was budgeted, yes, of course it will be a reduction. It also stresses how important it is to keep budgets year by year. That would actually suit Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, having himself raised this discussion, to acknowledge that the years measured, among other things. these years around 2009, are the years in which we have the high figures because the previous bourgeois government failed to keep its own budgets. That is the reason for the decline. As far as zero growth is concerned, it also means that you cannot have the number of public employees you have today. I understand that we can be in favour of zero growth and that we would like to spend all the money on tax cuts to the richest, that is fair enough, that is a view that the Left has long had. But why is it that the Left will not admit quietly that if you have zero growth, you have a big problem when you say that you want to expand the public sector? If you want to develop our health, you have to save in other areas. Then there was the matter of development aid, but I cannot do that for the President. I hope we can do that again afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132859	Then there is the final question to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414132901	I would like to answer the last question. Why will we not admit one thing and the other? Because this is wrong, because a stop to spending means that public expenditure will grow year after year with what wages are rising and inflation is rising. So that alone is wrong, and there is also the question of whether you have the will, the ability, the courage and the ambition to knead the dough, that is to say to use more somewhere to use less somewhere else. That is why I am asking whether the government really intends to take seriously this ambition to spend 3.6 billion. kr. More on development aid, because then that money will have to be found, and that money will certainly not be used elsewhere. They can't. That is also why I say quite openly to the Danes that we are prepared to save 2.5 billion. kr. in development aid. It will still ensure that Denmark is in the top five, and it frees 2.5 billion. kr., which can be used in other areas. That's the way it works. If you want something more somewhere, you have to do something less somewhere else. It is a little thought-provoking even after today that I have now asked the Prime Minister what needs to be done to get fewer on transfers? What must happen to give tax relief at the bottom? What needs to be done to promote patients' rights? What will happen to cancer patients? What's going to happen to fulfilling this promise that even survived as one of very, very few promises? In other words, the promise that all municipalities should have more money certainly did not survive. They wrote out to all the mayors of the country, calculated the municipality for the municipality, how much more money they would get. Two thirds of them had fewer. The promise that survived, when it would be fulfilled, and there are no clear answers to any of it. So I actually think I'm stepping down here and not asking any further questions. It doesn't really serve any purpose. I have explained today that the time has passed. ) that we will take a stand against the increase in wages that the government has given to the refugee families. We will roll back the wage increases that have been given to the cash benefits families. We'll lighten the treasure at the bottom. We will give Danish cancer patients better patient rights by giving them a patient-responsible doctor. Time's up, too. ) We will give all the patients of the country better rights by implementing the extended free hospital choice. And to that there is a Prime Minister who prides himself on the results achieved and all respect for it and who has a loose claim that we must now move forward. We can't find out where.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414133126	Thank you. Let's move on. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414133129	It would have dressed Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen just to correct himself in relation to this, about whether there has been a decrease in the number of public employees, because the truth is that in 2009 it was quite simply spent so much money that the number of public employees increased, and when you start to comply with the budgets, it can of course also be felt. The truth is that such a zero growth, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is preoccupied with, of course can also be converted into fewer employees in the public sector. What would look good on Mr. Knox? Lars Løkke Rasmussen is "and now you're talking about development aid, and you can only draw it for a year, so fortunately there will be a year after that and a year after that to put together a comprehensive plan rather than how things should develop. How are things going to develop? So says Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen that you want tax relief at the bottom. How big? How tall? How much? That is an important question, especially because Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is so concerned that it should pay much, much better to work when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen had to make a budget. How much should tax relief be given at the bottom? How much money is this about? I am not the only one who lacks answers, but of course both the whole of the Folketing and the people lack answers to it. Then there is one last thing that I have been asked a great deal about today and that concerns the economy of the municipalities. Well, well, well, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and we've gotten used to it a little, but that's also why it's so important that we have this conversation down in the Parliament hall. Because if you look at the provisional accounts for 2014, everything suggests that the municipalities' service costs have actually increased by up to 2 billion. kr., if compared to 2013. So when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen gives a picture that there has just been pressure on the municipalities' finances, so it is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414133322	Thank you. I shall not, of course, give any character to the observance of speaking time. Then the next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414133334	Thank you. When you hear the first such introductory round here in Question Time today, you almost get the feeling that we're in an election campaign. I don't know if anyone else has thought the same thing, but the will to speak is great. I should like to begin by congratulating the Prime Minister or the party chairman once again in my round of Question Time. After all, I was at a reception in this Chamber yesterday, to which the Social Democratic Party had invited me, on the occasion that the party chairman now had ten years on the back as party chairman. As it turns out, when you come to a nice reception, I brought you a gift, and I had brought you one, I think, beautiful figure of a Danish gardener and also a good bottle of red wine. There should also be some for the dinner for the Prime Minister after a busy day. And then I also had a special gift, namely a stock in Goldman Sachs. Yesterday, when I gave the gift, it was of course with a good-natured smile, and a little political teasing was there. Today, however, I must not fail to stress to the Prime Minister that there is a certain seriousness in this, as one of the things that the Prime Minister has been in charge of during the time she has been Prime Minister has been selling part of DONG to Goldman Sachs. Now it can be said: Why now do we have to discuss it during today's Question Time? Why now mention this grotesque case that many Danes have asked questions about? Why was it so important for the government to sell exactly to Goldman Sach? Why mention it in a question hour today? It's because there's been a new book. It came out yesterday, and I also know that the Prime Minister has got it at the reception yesterday by another colleague in here. The best bid is called the book, and it illustrates that during the course the Minister of Finance spoke untruely, creating an untrue story about where Goldman Sachs paid tax. This book tells us that the DA told the government that the Folketing was actually obliged to reject the offer from Goldman Sach, if it was considered that there could be a better offer. The Danish Parliament's Finance Committee, which then had to debate the matter, just did not have the opportunity to pursue it, because the Folketing among other things. could not obtain the information on what other bids were. On the basis of this book, on the basis of the obvious conspiracy theories one can say the book in fact shows, my question to the Prime Minister here today is therefore whether the Prime Minister will now put it in place once and for all that of course the Folketing must have the information necessary for the Folketing to assess whether this sale by the government to Goldman Sachs was, in fact, as the title of the book reads, the best offer, or whether there were any other better bids. Will the Prime Minister personally ensure that the Folketing now gets the information necessary for the Folketing to do its job?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414133636	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414133638	Now I don't know if I've gotten into this case after I've gotten a share.I think it's very interesting, as the Danish People's Party puts itself in this case. It may well be that others will ask about this later in Question Time, but it is of course parties who have always opposed and who have not had a knowledge that the Danish People's Party has had all the way through. So I really think it's important to remember what this case is about. It is about DONG Energy back in 2013 having some challenges where they lacked capital. Therefore, the conciliation circle, of which Dansk Folkeparti is a part, agreed to initiate a process that would ensure that DONG could have some extra capital injected from outside. There was complete openness about that. Since the Danish People's Party was part of the conciliation circle, they were also involved, and as far as I understand what was going on then, the Danish People's Party was presented as far back as October 2013 with the main content of the agreements that were later concluded with new investors. The Danish People's Party supported the government's conclusion of the final agreements, and the party's finance rapporteur was very clear about this. Nevertheless, as you know, the Danish People's Party chose to skip the agreement. The Danish People's Party has the same thing as finding out which way the wind blows, and if it blows a new road, you change your attitude. It has been very difficult since then to find the factual reasons why Dansk Folkeparti and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl chose to jump into the goal and chose to jump from a political agreement which concerns a large and important Danish workplace. That's the serious thing about this. It's that there was sort of an agreement. The Danish People's Party was fully familiar with it, but when it came to it and it became a little difficult, one could not count on the Danish People's Party anymore. After all, it is characteristic of the Danish People's Party that they change their attitude. What is also interesting is to look at what the Danish People's Party wants to do instead. You really want, as far as I know, to continue to work for an introduction to DONG Energy. What happens in an IPO? Well, it just happens that everyone can buy shares, and that's where mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl does not decide which shares to buy from whom. So there is something in this case that sounds very, very hollow, and I can only repeat what my Finance Minister has said many times, namely that there was openness on this plan, and that of course we chose the bid that was overall the best for the state, and the Danish People's Party agreed with that until, unfortunately, they did not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414133937	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414133938	I think openness is the last thing you can say about this case. Journalists who have applied for access to the case have been given back such papers, which are also depicted at the beginning of the book, where virtually everything has been deleted. Well, by e-mail you can see that it says "Dear Morten" and then it says "Friendly," Peter. The rest is over. I think most people know that it is not very open that there is not much openness about this. What is the point is that now we have a book which, among other things, is: The Minister for Finance fabricated, one can almost say a lie that is at least what the book postulates that the Minister for Finance created a situation where he had rapporteurs from the government parties running around saying that Goldman Sachs had indicated that they would pay dividends tax in Denmark, but that the Treasury had made the Ministry of Finance aware that it would not take place in that way. And that's why it had to be said afterwards that I think it was a mistake. It was one of the rapporteurs of the government parties who had to say so. He had to take that on his cape. But the book reveals that it came from the finance minister. Well, we have a book here that depicts that in the course of the proceedings the DA tells about the Danish Parliament's duty to reject the offer if we considered that there was a better offer. But in the Folketing we were not allowed to know anything at all about what other offers there were. That is why I am now asking the Prime Minister: Will the Prime Minister make sure, secure, watch, personally put through that the Folketing can get the information that we need to assess whether the sale to Goldman Sach was an expression of the best bid, or whether there were better bids? I didn't get the hint of an answer to it in the first round. I will, of course, have that in the second round, because the Prime Minister says that she answers the questions asked during Question Time, so I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134123	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134125	I understand that, in view of the fact that very, very late in the process, a member of the board of four pension companies made some statements about a possible bid... it was statements that came long after the deadline had expired and it was not specified in this respect. There will be plenty of opportunity to ask more questions about this matter and about the note when the Minister for Finance comes into consultation next week, and that really is where I think it belongs. In relation to our debate down here, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was always a little sad that he did not get questions and was not given the opportunity to explain himself. But there we have a very good opportunity now, because should we not make it clear once and for all that the Danish People's Party itself was involved in deciding that additional capital should be added to DONG Energy, that in October 2013 the Danish People's Party was presented with the main content of the agreements that were then later concluded with the new investors, that the Danish People's Party supported the government's conclusion of the final agreements and that the Danish People's Party's Party's rapporteur was very explicit about that? Dear sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, couldn't we just today get an answer about what happened next? What happened since the Danish People's Party had first said yes, all of a sudden couldn't be part of this anyway? I would like to acknowledge there that other parts of the opposition, among others. Left, the whole time has acknowledged that they were part of this work and that they were informed and have always supported that responsibility. What exactly happened since the Danish People's Party one day thought it was a fine plan until they thought otherwise? It would actually be quite nice to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134320-2	This happened, among other things. The fact that we got to know where Goldman Sachs would pay taxes. After all, this was a case in which, in January 2014, long after October 2013, the Prime Minister was referring to a discussion about where they actually paid taxes and where they suddenly found out that they would take advantage of what is called the Luxembourg Fin, i.e. the fact that they could get the money tax-free to companies in Cayman Islands and Delaware, where there is tax-free for this kind of money. And that is exactly what was discussed in January last year, about which the book uncovers, and where the finance minister postulates the book, is producing an untruth. I think the Prime Minister should have an interest in it being uncovered, and have an interest in providing the Folketing with the information that can form the basis for the Folketing to assess whether the book's information that an untruth was made is correct or wrong. Therefore, just for the last time, my attempt to ask the question that I have now used all this round to try to get the Prime Minister to answer, namely: Will the Prime Minister ensure that the Folketing gets the information that the Folketing needs to assess whether the offer from Goldman Sachs was the best offer or there were in fact other, better bids? If the Folketing is to be able to make that assessment, then the Folketing must have information, including about the other bids. Will the Prime Minister ensure that the Folketing can get it if the Folketing asks for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134450	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134452	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl refers to a note prepared by the DA, in which he has information from a book which has just been published and which I did not have a chance to get acquainted with. By the way, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl well that the Minister for Finance will come in consultation next week to discuss precisely that. So that's it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl should actually do today was to answer some of the more general questions about DONG. That is the fundamental discussion here. I know, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is trying to make it all sorts of technical, but the truth is that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party thought it was a good idea to have this approach until the winds blew a little differently in the debate; then you changed your mind. This is not the first time that the Danish People's Party has done so. It's almost a pattern. The second thing that needs answers to is: Since it is so dangerous to sell shares, put DONG on shares, why is it that Dansk Folkeparti still believes DONG should be listed on the stock exchange, where shares can be sold to all kinds of people? Things are not connected, the Danish People's Party and we have not received any information or explanations or defences in this matter today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134607	Thank you to the questioner. Then we go to the next one, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134612	First congratulations to the PM with the 10th anniversary. It is, of course, in the light of the fact that Denmark is getting up after the crisis. The economy is improving, not least because of a thorough clean-up after many years of economic morass left behind by the former bourgeois government and a financial crisis triggered by unscrupulous speculation. The better economic situation also means that we are faced with a choice: how we deal with the recovery and the scope for strengthened welfare. But even here, so close to a forthcoming election, one does not become much wiser when one looks at the reports both from the Left, but also a little from the Socialists. Left and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is busy playing with large cranes and banners out in Ørestaden. Their financial plans for zero growth and user charges at the doctor and away with the SU for home residents, they don't report anything concrete, they're just targets. So the so-called modern cash aid ceiling can only be finally told by the voters when the Left has recaptured the government and recaptured the Ministry of Finance. You could call that a bit of a blank cheque. But that also applies to the Social Democrats. The government's putting a little bit. We have together with you made an economic plan that gives air to at least 20 billion. kr. to strengthened welfare. But how should the funds be given priority? For health, I know, but beyond that, what then? You don't get much smarter when you see the ads these days. It just says that you have to move on. I certainly hope so, but continue with what? What are these areas? Because priority must be given to this. The Prime Minister will then be able to tell us which areas of welfare the government will strengthen in terms of public growth and whether we are still talking about a minimum of 20 billion here. kr. to strengthen welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134801	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134803	It is quite true that in the bourgeois opposition there is not only a lack of answers to all the questions that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr raises here, but also a lack of coordination. We simply have no idea what we will get if we are so unlucky that they obtained a majority after the next elections. We have no idea what we're getting. But something that we've gradually got an indication of is that this zero growth or minus growth thing is really haunting. You are more concerned with using every free crown for tax relief than with developing our common welfare. There, too, we have ensured together that over the years there is indeed the possibility of spending a little more money on our welfare. Our priorities are clear. We're preoccupied with health. Over the next few years we will spend a little more than 6 billion. kr. to develop our health. What we are particularly focused on is the treatment of cancer, which must be much better, but also chronic, disorders. I think most people know or have known someone who lives with chronic ailments, and what we want is that they will live longer and better with chronic ailments. It can be arthritis or KOL, which are very violent diseases. So that's some of our priorities. Besides that, we're preoccupied with education. We want the best educated generation in Danish history, and that is also why we have given priority to investing in education and also wish to do so in the future. It is not the case that there are now again record numbers of applicants for higher education. It is because we have spent the money we need to make sure that happens. A third area we are concerned with and then the President will probably stand up in a moment. We're all together... I hope also with SF preoccupied with kids. It may well be that we do not always agree entirely on the levels, but in our common financial law we have been very concerned about developing our day-offer as well, and the government is still concerned about that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134956	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414134957	The SF has specifically proposed giving priority to 2 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been presented to us by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. kr. further in the next parliamentary term, so that an increasing number of pensioners • and we know that nearly 90,000 more will come by 2020 • will not experience any deterioration in care opportunities; that Denmark's green strengths will have to be invested in business policy so that more green production jobs can be created; and yes, that there will of course also be a daily allowance solution. However, I have some doubts as to what the government will prioritise, and this is not so much due to the Prime Minister's reply, nor to the overall we-must-continue message. This is mainly due to a number of the Deputy Prime Minister and his party's recent reports. There have been reports of increased user charges in the public sector, a reduction in top tax rates and, most recently, a rapid increase in retirement age. It is a little far from the welfare focus that the Social Democrats and the Prime Minister are advocating, and which has also been reflected in the answer that the Prime Minister has just given. The Prime Minister can then clarify whether the reports by the Radicals on user charges, top taxes and retirement age alone stand at the expense of the Radicals, that they will not be part of the economic plans and that none of the 20 billion. kr. for better welfare should be used for top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135122	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135123	I am not going to stand here and defend what the President of the Radicals has said, but I think that in many ways the views of the Radicals are quite well-known, that is to say, that you have to change housing taxation and that you have to change the time when people have to retire. What is important to us in relation to the moment of retirement is, of course, that we have an agreement for this area, which is very broad. Basically, it dates back to 2006, and I have been very pleased to note this week that although Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen talked about stomach plasters and all sorts of other things, one is actually concerned about complying with the agreement we have from 2006 and also the indexing of life expectancy that dates back to 2006. So that is the starting point, since everyone has to agree on it. But I have to say that it is very easy to be wise about government policy, because we have put it forward. We have a 2020 plan and I would call for it to be read, and I also know that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr knows it out and inside, and that shows that we have carried out many reforms, and we have done so together with the SF. We have managed the economy, also with the SF, and we have budgeted a little more for the public sector over the next few years. And that is good, because even though we have budgeted for spending about 3 billion. kr. In the public sector, it is not gold and green forests, it is not; we still have to turn every penny, but it just means that some of the areas we are jointly concerned with, and I can also hear that today, i.e. the children, the elderly, health, are one of our priorities in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135303	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135305	That was reassuring to hear. I believe that the Prime Minister, the Social Democratic Party and the SF are very much in agreement. On the other hand, I think there are many people who are a little confused and insecure about the latest reports from Radical Left, for example. people who have worked hard throughout their lives, and that can be anything from being in the workshop to cleaning, and are now being pressured to such an extent in relation to their retirement age. But my last question must be at child's height, and that is also where the Prime Minister ended in his reply. Because, as I have said, SF will prioritise that part of public growth goes to more adults in the day institutions. The government is about to come up with a children's plan, and that is why I have taken it up in a question time before, because we actually think it is an important area, not least because the Minister of Social Affairs has repeatedly categorically rejected money for more adults in the day institutions. At that time, the answer from the Prime Minister was that I think it was about 2 weeks ago that there were still internal discussions. However, since then, a rapporteur from the Prime Minister's own party has opened the door to the possibility that a little more money could still be allocated to more adults in today's institutions. So in view of this and the fact that the internal discussions are perhaps at last progressing a little, can the Prime Minister confirm or deny that in the next parliamentary term more money will have to be allocated to more adults in our day institutions if the government is re-elected?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135425	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135426	Now it almost sounds like we're in an election campaign and we're going to talk about the next parliamentary term. We can also talk about what is happening now. And the government is, of course, that has also been reflected in the negotiations we have had, among other things. with SF. Together with SF and Enhedslisten, we have allocated 1 billion in the 2015 Finance Act. kr. over 4 years for day nurseries, kindergartens and day care, and that money is to be spent on increasing standards. In other words, we need to spend the money on more educators and assistants, staff who spend time with the children. It must then be added to the other money we have spent in this area, and we can see that we have all prioritised 750 million. kr. to better standards and quality in day-to-day offers. We have been able to do this by the majority with which we have now made financial legislation, and we have been able to do this primarily because we do not have zero growth in the public sector. And that just underlines how pressure you are when you have zero growth in the public sector, i.e. that the things that you think are important and the things that are being focused on, for example. better quality in our day offer, you can do nothing about when you have zero growth. But that is something we have tried to promise together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135545	Thank you. Then the next question is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135552	Happy 10th anniversary again. After all, I gave the Prime Minister a book called "The Best Offer," and it is a book that travels, I think, some very serious questions about the sale of parts of DONG to Goldman Sachs. After all, the Enhedslisten has called the Finance Minister for a conciliation which will be held on 21 April, that is to say next Tuesday. We expect some very clear answers to the questions that are being raised. I think it is very, very serious that questions are raised about whether information has not only been withheld for the Folketing but also misinformed the Folketing. I assume the Minister of Finance is not the co-owner of Goldman Sachs. I hope not. But I'm gonna ask you something else. The discussion on DONG will be held with the Minister for Finance on Tuesday for the consultation called for by Enhedslisten. I'm gonna ask you something else. I would like to ask about what many other people than I probably saw on Sunday, namely 21 Sunday's program about the conditions at our care centres. One of the things we saw is how older people, many of whom are extremely demented, simply do not get the care and help they need because staff have been cut very deeply. It is especially at night that there are problems with the manning, and then you can say that at night people sleep well. But what is with demented is that they very often switch around day and night and are actually awake. They go around and have to go to the bathroom, and what do I know? I have to say that what I saw on that television show was really not worthy. I think it cannot be right that in Denmark, in a society like the Danish one, which is so rich, we cannot properly treat older people, who for the most part have worked their entire lives and paid their taxes. I'm very worried about the thought that sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen should go and become prime minister, for he will introduce zero growth. There is no doubt that this will have violent consequences, not least in the area of the elderly, and I have to say that I find it strange that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti, who otherwise usually talk a lot about the conditions of the elderly, point to a head of government who purposefully or openly says that zero growth will be achieved with the violent consequences it will have for our elderly. But there are also problems now, and that is my question to the Prime Minister: what are we doing now and here? I think it should be said: listen, there must not be only one person at work at night at these care centres. It is simply too dangerous, so I would like to suggest that there should be at least two people, in other words two people with training in this area, because if an emergency arises, there should be someone else who can say that they are taking care of the rest. How does the Prime Minister feel about giving that right to the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135901	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414135903	I also saw some of that broadcast, and what I took from it was that there was an employee here who was simply trying to do it as well as possible that worked hard. It was even night work; we all know that's really hard. She really worked hard, so thank her and all her colleagues who make an effort every day in the care of the elderly. They are doing well, and I think we should also acknowledge that they are doing so. I also wonder when we see such an example, which shows that it is not gold and green forests in the municipalities' economy that one can choose to support Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who wants zero growth in the public sector. I wish we could have a debate with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti on why zero growth is actually supported. For one thing you can be absolutely sure of is that with zero growth there will be more of the kind of situations and difficult situations that the individual employee has to deal with, simply because zero growth means fewer public employees. That means that some will run a little stronger. So that's the big mystery of all this. Specifically, on the question of whether to have a minimum standard, I would say that I think it is a very difficult way of managing the public sector by having minimum standards in all areas. On the contrary, we must ensure that we have a fundamental economic policy that ensures that municipalities can develop welfare. It has been tough years in the municipalities, and the slowing down after the crisis and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been very hard out in the municipalities, but now there are fortunately signs that service costs are going a little better, and when we look at the preliminary accounts for 2014, we see that this suggests that the municipalities' service costs have been given the opportunity to increase by 2 billion. kr. Compared to 2013, and this is precisely because we jointly • Enhedslisten, SF and the government have set aside an extra billion for the care of the elderly. Some people may not think this was such a good idea, but it turned out that it was a good idea, because it means that, on the basis of some parties that want zero growth, we actually had an extra billion allocated to care for the elderly, and that has therefore also meant a little better opportunities in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140124	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140126	I do not at all disagree with the fact that the possibilities of ensuring better conditions for our elderly people are both the elderly living at home and dependent on a home helper visiting, and the elderly living at a care centre are considerably better with the majority we have today than if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and his zero growth come to power. But that does not change the fact that, although we have quite rightly ensured that some more money has been given, there has nevertheless been less staff in our care centres. That is why I do not believe that the answer is only economic. There is no doubt that money means a great deal, but the answer is also legislation. I think it is wise that we have secured rights for our children. Let's say it's a maximum. We have 28 pupils in the classes, and we do so because we fear that there will be so many children in the classes that they will not get a good enough education. In fact, I think it is time, after we have seen how things have progressed over the past many years, to say that we must also guarantee our elderly some fundamental rights, because what is going on, Prime Minister, in the nursing homes right now, I do not really think that is worthy. I would really like to ask the Prime Minister: when the Prime Minister sees something like this, the Prime Minister does not think, for example. the tax reliefs that were given were now wise, and was it now wise to give tax relief to the wealthiest, when we can see how much money is needed in the bourgeois welfare, not least to our elderly in nursing homes? I think myself, and I think there are many people who feel like me: why the hell should I have a tax relief when I can see how much extra hands are needed in nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140307	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140308	It is just as well, so we remember: it is true that we pulled some out of the top tax, but we also granted a higher employment allowance, especially for single parents. And it has always puzzled me a bit that Enhedslisten has not been more pleased about it, because it actually means that single parents get a nice and fine benefit from being in the labour market. So that is the truth about our tax reform. I think you can have a long discussion about this with minimum rights in the municipalities. However, one thing I am glad about, and that is that we have not ended up with a minimum right on bathing for the elderly in the municipalities, because it actually turns out that you are happier to use the older billion for other things. It can be a ride by bike, it can be a ride out, and it can be other things that you want to do. So I think that as a method of governance in the public sector, it is not always a good idea for us to sit here at Christiansborg and manage exactly how they should do it in the municipalities. We must ensure that there is a sensible economy for the municipalities. That is also what we have done. And it is then the municipalities that have to fill out this framework • of course in cooperation with the elderly in the municipalities, and they have to talk to them about what the elderly really want to spend the money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140421	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140422	I fully agree that the municipalities should not be managed precisely, but I think it is wise to look at what reality is out there, not least for our elderly people in nursing homes, to say that we are simply creating a lower limit on how poor people can be treated. That's actually what it's about right now. I have to say that I find it frightening to see examples of a single person being alone at work or being solely responsible for up to 60 elderly people, many of whom are affected by dementia, which is a very serious disease and I think everyone who knows people who suffer from that disease knows that. But I can tell that we are not going to agree here. I would also like to get an answer to the second question I asked: when we hear these stories, the Prime Minister does not think whether it was wise to spend money on them at the top, and that is the kind of people like us who, compared to all sorts of other people earn well, should have tax reliefs when we can see how much is needed for resources, among other things. with our elders or our children, but to our welfare? Was that a wise priority? Finally, and this is the third question, I would like to ask: will the Prime Minister tell us whether, in the next parliamentary term, if this government regains power, there will be more staff in this area, i.e. the elderly? I mean, are you gonna tell me, and are you gonna promise there's gonna be more hands in this area? When I ask, it's because there's just so much need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140604	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140606	You have to keep in mind that it may be too much to ask that when you are happy that you can spend 3 billion. kr. In addition, in the public sector, we should really be happy with all the reforms that have led us there. It is the tax reform, the cash aid reform and also the growth packages that have led us to have a sensible economy and thus to be able to allocate 3 billion. kr. a year. One can say that the easiest thing is to spend the money; the hardest thing is to get it. So I also hope that it will be possible to rejoice just a little bit at the fact that we have at least provided funding for the use of 3 billion. kr. Every year. The next thing I want to say is: yes, we want there to be good conditions in our welfare society. We want to give priority to health. We also want to give priority to the elderly. That is precisely why we have organized economic policy so that we do not spend all the money on tax cuts in the future, but on the contrary will develop our public sector. After all, this has already been reflected in the picture that accounts for 2014, namely that the total service costs of the municipalities have increased. And it is a good thing if you want to take better care of the elderly and the children that the municipalities have had the opportunity to increase their service costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140724	Thank you to Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140729	There's gonna be elections soon. I've been guessing it'll be August. But I can understand in a lot of people that they think it's gonna be now, I don't think the government dares. But one thing is certain: when that election campaign gets under way, we must, on the one hand, listen to a lot of talk about breaking promises, about 31 relaxations in foreign policy, about border controls and now also about Nazi Islamism, the Left's plans for a cash aid ceiling, and, on the other hand, we are going to hear questions that we have heard now about more educators, the unemployment allowance reform, inequality, the first asylum restrictions for 12 years that the government is talking about, and about whether DKK 1 000. more a month is enough to say that you get something out of going to work, or whether 2,000 kroner. more a month is enough to go to work. What we are going to lack beyond an eternal discussion about zero growth or plus 0.6%. growth, are some concrete calculated plans for how Denmark should move forward. A party has put forward a comprehensive plan and asked the enemy, if one can put it that way, namely the government, to calculate it and the government has come out on the other side and has said that this will give a growth of 108 billion. kr. in gross domestic product. This is something that can go directly to more welfare, private or public, 125,000 more in employment, i.e.. Twenty-five thousand in the private sector, and, yes, a little less in the public sector. When is it that we can see a calculated plan from the government? What is it that the government has of new initiatives on which it would like to go to the polls? What should we do in relation to corporation tax? What are we going to do about the tax at work? What are we going to do in relation to the retirement age that my old friends, the Radical Left, have now raised as a problem, but which the Prime Minister and Finance Minister have immediately verfed off the table? If the government does not have any plans, does it not have any concrete new proposals for reform on which to vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140933	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414140934	At least the government has plenty of plans. We will develop our welfare in the next few years. We have a 2020 plan, and it may not be enough for the Liberal Alliance, but we will develop our welfare, develop our health care, ensure that there is growth in Denmark; we also have growth plans. So that's a lot of plans. And we also have an economic policy that is fully funded. So there's plenty of plans. No, what is clear now is that there is also disagreement about how Denmark should go further. And I just have to say that I think it is commendable that the Liberal Alliance has put forward their policy, that is fine. Other parties could learn a little more from that, because it also means that we can focus on where we then disagree. After all, the Liberal Alliance wants to reduce public employment by 90,000 people. 90,000 people are about 1 in 10 public employees. That is why it would also suit the Liberal Alliance when it is said that we can do without one in ten public employees, to tell us exactly who it is that can be spared and which service we should then have less of in the public sector. So yes, the hat of the Liberal Alliance to present their policy, but of course also a thick line under which it is a violent experiment and very far from the Denmark we know what the Liberal Alliance is up to. To do without being tenth in the public sector will, of course, mean a completely different service in the public sector, and it would suit the Liberal Alliance to count: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Who is it that can be spared?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141105	Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141107	Can the Prime Minister confirm that if you implement the entire Liberal Alliance plan, Denmark will go from having the world's second largest public sector to having the world's third largest third-largest public sector? The reform plans are not savages. I am sure the Prime Minister can confirm that because that is the truth. Where, then, is it to be saved? But, as the government itself pointed out, this must be done in the bureaucracy and the rule tyranny which ultimately leads to the scandalous thing that we saw on television the other night in the treatment that we are giving to the elderly. Because people sit behind the computers and write about how well things are going, while the quality in the wards is falling and the government has done nothing about that, otherwise you wouldn't be able to do such a TV broadcast. This is the Denmark we know; it is the Denmark that the government is behind; it is the Denmark that the Liberal Alliance wants to improve and do better by releasing resources and trusting that people working in the public sector go to work to do a good job where the government overwhelms them with rules and bureaucracy that lead to the scandalous conditions that we saw on television the other night. The Prime Minister should take action on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141217	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141218	Does anyone in their right mind believe that the employee's working conditions in order to do a good job, portrayed on television the other day, will be improved by having to spare one in ten colleagues? Does anyone really believe that? I mean, it's a fantasy that doesn't have any basis whatsoever in real life. So says Mr. Anders Samuelsen to me: Well, you want to modernise the public sector too. Yeah, that's right for 20 billion. kr. towards 2020, which, by the way, we do not want to withdraw from the public sector, where, on the contrary, the Liberal Alliance will modernise for 80 billion. kr. to be withdrawn from the public sector. So don't use us as someone who thinks the same thing as the Liberal Alliance, because it couldn't be any more wrong. The hat of the fact that you can have different views, but do not try to convince the public that if you do not have one in ten in the public sector, the service will be much better. I don't think anyone can see that that's possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141323	Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141325	Now it is just that the Liberal Alliance is based on the government's own commission, and it is just as if the Prime Minister does not want to recognise that the Prime Minister himself set up a commission, an efficiency committee, which pointed out that it was possible to bring about an efficiency of approx. 10% without compromising the service without compromising the service. Peter Birch Sørensen, as chairman of that commission, said that it would be possible to go even further if, on top of that, the rules were simplified, better working procedures were worked out, trusted the employees, exactly what the Liberal Alliance is advocating. Yes, I must start from what the government wants and does, and it is the government that is responsible for the wretched conditions that we saw on television the other day, so scandalous conditions, so poor working conditions for people employed in the public sector. It's the government's responsibility, it's not my responsibility, because it's the Prime Minister who's got the majority in this Parliament. The Prime Minister should start to deal with that. Instead, however, the Prime Minister would rather sit back in the chair, smile indulgently and say that we do not want to talk about this, despite the fact that, on the basis of this, we recognise that we want to make ourselves more efficient, not too much, but we want to. You believe that this path can be done, and yet you want to avoid it. Recognize, however, what your own productivity commission has pointed out, acknowledge that it can be done to trust the public employees that we can get better service with fewer yes, fewer social workers need up to 80%. of their time at anything other than being with them, for example. families who need their support so badly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141458	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141500	I think Anders Samuelsen can hear how strange what he says. We have proposed modernising the public sector for 12 billion. kr. What are we gonna do with the 12 billion? kr. To? Will we pull them out of the public sector or will we use them for welfare? We'll spend it on welfare. The Liberal Alliance is suggesting that 80 billion will be drawn. kr. out, modernize for 80 billion. kr. in the public sector and pulling them out of the public sector. How is it that the person who runs around doing a good job in the middle of the night can do his job better? The Liberal Alliance says we just have to trust them more. No, I don't think so. I believe that we must ensure that there is a means of ensuring that there can also be reasonable welfare in the future. I have not received an answer to this, and it is a little too bad because Anders Samuelsen says he wants to discuss it: who is it in the public sector that we can do without? The Liberal Alliance is up to us to spare one in ten. Can we not find out who it is we can do without in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141602	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen, who unfortunately has no opportunity to respond. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141613	You almost sense how the air feels about frustration over lack of answers when you just come up here after a trip like this. It has to be said that it is a question time when there has been a great deal of bickering; there has been a great deal of tal war. My questions to the Prime Minister are actually about exploring some of the political nuances. And I very much hope that the Prime Minister will take up this kindly and actually engage in constructive dialogue. The Conservative People's Party has, of course, set an agenda in this way over the last few weeks in various areas. We have been out to say that we want people to get acquainted with the Mohammed crisis already in primary school; to learn how freedom of expression comes under pressure. We have been out to say that we want an extra hour of Christianity knowledge on the school schedule and that we also think that Christianity knowledge should be made compulsory. We do, of course, because we really want to strengthen knowledge of our history and the historical processes, partly on our cultural Christian basis of value. There have been some comments, but the Prime Minister has not actually been out to comment on what she really means in relation to the Danish values and in relation to the Danish values which are under pressure. We hear about triple A ratings... it's the prime minister who likes to talk about technology, operation and growth estimates, which are so often downgraded. This is also important, but I believe that the Danes are also very much calling for value policy to be a value policy which is therefore helping to set a direction for Denmark. Now that we have only heard from various rapporteurs in the Social Democratic Party, there were many people out to comment on it anyway, and that was nice, the hat off for that, I still think, there are many who really want to hear what the Prime Minister thinks in terms of value policy, that is, what it takes to secure Danish values. So what's the first thing that's an open question? Value policy action to underpin and strengthen our values if it's finally going to be the case that the Prime Minister regains government power?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141808	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141810	I do not really know whether Mrs Mai Mercado wants me to comment on the Conservative campaign; I have not been so involved in the Conservative campaign. But we are very concerned about how to strengthen our community in Denmark, strengthen solidarity and also strengthen what I would call the Danish values. And one of the strong Danish values is that we take care of each other. We have a sense of goodness towards each other, so that, even if some fall through, we actually go out on the sidelines of society, actually look out for each other. That is also why, throughout this crisis, I have said that one of our objectives is to bring Denmark through the crisis with our integrity and our solidarity. It's not something that comes on its own. It takes a fine masked safety net. This requires an economic policy in which it is not only managed but also an ability and a willingness to spend the money on our community. For one of the really strong Danish values is that we insist on having a strong community where everyone can join and where everyone gets a chance to join. It is a strong Danish value that we want to fight for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141918	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414141920	Well, you can say a lot, but I think the Prime Minister must agree with me that Denmark and also the Danes are formed by Christianity, and that Christianity has influenced the Danes for centuries and continues to do so today. It is therefore the case that there are thousands of schoolchildren who are today exempt from Christianity knowledge, but who could of course have been taught how we live. And it is important to stress that Christianity is by no means a preacher; fortunately the Prime Minister knows well but is enlightening, and that you also learn about other religions. But of course the Prime Minister is familiar with this book, because she herself has been involved in giving an interview to it. But that's why it's still out of the question, because the Prime Minister is just talking about Christianity in that book. Then I would just like to ask whether the Prime Minister will still be involved in making Christianity knowledge compulsory.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142021	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142022	I think that we have a very exciting and strong Christian cultural heritage in Denmark that we must safeguard and watch out for. This is also why we have trained Christianity in primary school. I also understand that Mrs Mai Mercado must agree with at least partly because at least you are part of the public school settlement and have the opportunity, if you think there are other things on the school schedule, to influence it that way. That is the strength of the fact that we have broad settlements on matters here in the Danish Parliament: that we can develop together, for example. Our primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142054	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142056	I think that sounds really strange, because I was, in fact, involved in the negotiations on the reform of primary schools, and I remember that there were some proposals from the Radicals to introduce religious education rather than Christianity. And there was no rejection on the part of the Social Democratic Party; it was the bourgeois who had to insist on ensuring that Christian knowledge was allowed to remain on the schedule. Anyway, I'd like to read out what the Prime Minister has said. She has written, said: In principle I do not see why children with a Muslim background cannot have Christianity knowledge, which is the dominant religion in Denmark. Having said that and not seeing that there is no reason for it, we might as well just implement it. And that is why I hope the government could be willing to do so. When I ask the Prime Minister to deal with the Danish values, it is because it is something that is very dear to us. The Prime Minister spoke of solidarity and joining a community. It is also very important, but Danish values, i.e. getting the Danishness under the skin, I think are something that a lot of people want. Then I would just like the Prime Minister to confirm what the rapporteurs said the day we discussed the Muhammad crisis on the school curriculum. There the Socialist rapporteurs said: we see no problem in the Muhammed crisis coming in as part of the history canon. So I really just want the Prime Minister to confirm that. This is really a very easy question, and it could be a unique chance that the Prime Minister actually replied quite precisely to something during this Question Time: Is the Prime Minister entirely willing and willing to put the Muhammad crisis on the school schedule?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142227	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142228	I have two things, no, actually three things. I am extremely pleased that a conservative rapporteur could use the word'solidarity' to describe Denmark. I am very pleased about this, and now all we need is redistribution, equal treatment and all sorts of things. This could be really good in the end. But it is true that I mean this, that the fact that we are in solidarity with each other, that we have a finely masked safety net, so that if you have not been given the most golden chances in life, you get a chance to get a second chance is a significant and strong core value in Denmark. I am also pleased that there is Christianity on the school schedule and that we have agreed on it in the conciliation circle. I think it's really good that this is the way it is. Finally, with regard to what is specifically to be taught in a class in primary school, I would like to say that the rapporteur must know that I leave it safe to the skilled Danish teachers. They are the ones who have to assess what is appropriate to take up in the teaching. And where are we if we in the Folketing are to sit here and tell all the teachers that they have to take up exactly that subject on that day and that way? I do not think that is what Denmark we know, so to speak. I think that the Denmark we know is a place where there is also great freedom in the individual classroom for teachers to teach in the way that suits the teachings, but of course according to the teaching plans that we have hit the primary school into.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142352	The last party leader is sir. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142401	I can already say what I want to talk about, so the Prime Minister is already prepared. I would really like to talk about entrepreneurship and how we strengthen entrepreneurship in Denmark. The reason I want to do so is, of course, that we have massive challenges, including climate challenges, social challenges and economic challenges. Fortunately, we see some good growth figures, but there is also a concern and discussion about whether it is jobless growth. That is why there is such a need for all the entrepreneurial commitment and energy and creativity that we can mobilize as a society at all, so that we get the right, good ideas, you can say, the good solutions, new types of jobs, also like jobs that ensure a coherent • what to say culture in Danish society. So my first question is: what does the government think about strengthening entrepreneurship, and how do we strengthen the citizens' desire to create themselves, and how do we strengthen the desire of young people to create? That is my first question of principle. Then I'll have two more specifics after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142514	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142515	Thank you. I agree very much with the rapporteur that entrepreneurs are a large number of those who are going to be involved in developing Denmark, and fortunately they are already. I am absolutely certain that they ensure innovation in our society, they ensure competition in society, and they are also constantly developing new and innovative solutions that can be used in our welfare societies when we constantly need to be more skilled. So we can't do without talented entrepreneurs. I would also like to mention that they are also helping to increase productivity in our society. That is also why we have taken a number of initiatives to support more entrepreneurship in Denmark. We have among other things. strengthened the access of entrepreneurs to capital. This is important because some of the entrepreneurs have found it difficult to raise capital, and that is why we have created special growth loans for entrepreneurs, which actually provide the basis for increased lending by up to 1 billion. kr. Towards 2017. In November 2012, we also launched a credit package precisely to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. their access to finance. So this is an area that we have been focusing on and also want to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142627	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142629	For good reasons, of course, I am pleased that the Prime Minister has the same ambition as we have in the Alternative. So how do we go in and really strengthen entrepreneurship? We have a group of young people sitting up in the gallery, and I walked around with a high school class yesterday and showed them Christiansborg, and afterwards, of course, we had a political discussion about how we work in here and what is happening in society, and at some point I ask the group of young people who were approx. 28 good, bright young people from a high school here in Copenhagen: Well, how many of you actually want to start your own business? It was 21⁄2 out of 28. So, although a large number of good initiatives have been taken, including during the time of this government, in relation to better financial support, better access to advice, it is as if it is still lagging away in some places in the education system. Again, there are already initiatives, but the ambition of the Alternative is, of course, that we get entrepreneurship on the school schedule at all stages of the education chain, both in primary and secondary education and in higher education. So what is the government's attitude to strengthening entrepreneurship education at our different school levels?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142745	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142747	I therefore agree that young people should become acquainted with entrepreneurship, and that is why entrepreneurship is already an integral part of the government's education policy. We have helped development by ensuring that innovation becomes part of the new teacher training, and this simply means that newly trained teachers will be more aware of the value of entrepreneurship, even when they are going to teach. We have also put more emphasis on teacher students, teachers, including newly trained teachers, being better at translating the latest knowledge into products and services, so that they can also influence their students. We also have an entrepreneurial pilot scheme to ensure that new graduates have better opportunities to get started on new things and to get started on their own business. So I actually think we have been well at work in this area. On top of that, we have been very concerned about funding, and some of what I also think the alternative is crowdfunding, where we are now looking at opportunities to promote crowdfunding in Denmark. We have also made it possible to set up entrepreneurship companies, which must also support all of this. So it's
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142906	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414142907	That is absolutely right, and I also fully agree that the measures mentioned by the Prime Minister are both meaningful and relevant. What still worries me is, when you talk to this group of young people, that there are so few of those who want to get started, which is certainly because they also have no role models to reflect in, but we can have that discussion at another time. I can at least hear that we have common ground here. The last specific question is actually about, in addition to what we have now talked about in terms of entrepreneurship and the mentality of our youth education, whether we can then use some of the public resources in a more appropriate way in relation to this agenda. There is, of course, an alternative to what we call a 2-year entrepreneurial benefit for people on unemployment benefits, where you ask: How can you use the benefit period to also support an entrepreneurial culture? After all, our bid is to give a performance of 80%. of the current rate and then of course with good advice, and what I really just want to ask the Prime Minister is whether the government can see itself in such an initiative. Are there any options in this so that we will once again strengthen what we apparently have a common agenda on, namely to create a much more entrepreneurial Denmark than we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143024	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143025	Now I do not know the proposal of the alternative, the concrete proposal, but it is not immediately something the government is going to propose. We feel so much, very much in cash, that if you are on unemployment benefit, you have to be available for the labour market, which means that if you do something else like this. To start a new business, you are not available for the labour market, at least not in full time. And there are already opportunities to be available in less time. So I feel that if you are on cash benefits or for that matter on cash benefits, there has to be a rather tight level of availability, which means you have to be ready to take a job immediately. There I find it rather difficult to see how it could be combined with, for example, that one. At the same time, new business is starting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143109	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk, and thank the Prime Minister. After an hour and a half the hour and a half the Question Time has now come to an end and we shall move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143138	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one proposal put forward by Jane Heitmann (V), Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen (S), Liselott Blixt (DF), Liv Holm Andersen (RV), Eigil Andersen (SF), Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr-Bæhr (EL), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA), Per Løkken (KF) and Uffe Elbæk (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 105 votes (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT), against 0 abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 41 adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143227	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143237	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (V, S, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 14 (DF), abstentions 9 (EL and ALT). The bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143319	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143339	Thank you. After all, we have tabled this motion for a resolution, which concerns the right of men to have the right to have parental leave earmarked for them. It is a proposal on which the Socialists, the Radical Left and the SF, before the elections, were fully agreed, together with the Enhedslisten, and we have also tabled resolutions together in the past, because we basically believe that it is the best tool. That's probably why it was part of the government base until it was pulled out. And that is why I was able to read with great interest in Altingen's candidate test and Danmarks Radio's candidate test that there are 80 candidates, both from the Social Democrats and the Radical Left, who are in favour of earmarked maternity, even from the top of the government, the Minister for Equal Opportunities, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior, who is also chairman of the Radical Left, the Chairman of the Folketing, Mogens Lykketoft, the Social Democrats' equal opportunities rapporteur. And then I thought, in relation to the whole sitting thing, that you are in favour of it and that it is very important that it is such a free round that you can get out into the media. Now the SF will make it possible, so that you can actually vote for it, and so that you not only have to say it in various candidate tests, but in fact also here in the Parliamentary Chamber can implement your policy. I know that there is a majority; Enhedslisten and SF are in favour of earmarked maternity leave, and I understand that the other parties do too. So I also hope, of course, that we will vote in favour of this proposal, because that is what needs to be done if we are really to be able to go in and give men the opportunity that they can actually take earmarked maternity leave. We know today that it is quite important in terms of what equality is like, that when men can take that maternity leave, it is also much easier to say in the workplace that they want it. It is also important in relation to agreements, and it is also important in relation to pensions. That is probably why our neighbouring countries have cultivated it to such an extent and have made it a right, and there we can see that more and more men are being given maternity leave. That is why I also hope that those whose names I have mentioned are some of those who take the lead and will vote in favour of the proposal, because everything else will be saying something in one place and somewhere else in the other. And I can also see that there is a journalist from Politiken, and it could also be that he would write it if you voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143614	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143624	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (EL, SF and ALT), against 90 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (S). The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143650	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143727	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143755	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143814	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143832	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143849	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143905	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143923	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414143940	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144010	Does anyone wish to speak? Yeah. Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144021	Thank you. We can do that very briefly. The Danish People's Party requests referral back to committee of the draft law, including: because of some different inquiries. I hope, of course, that the Danish Parliament will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144042	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144053	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance)? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144119	Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144136	That's what he's doing. This is because the bill we have before us has been on a quite, quite strange journey. In fact, the starting point was that as far back as the 2012-13 session, Enhedslisten tabled motion for a resolution B 117 in this area, which was intended to ensure better consumer protection in the event of airline bankruptcy. As far as we are concerned, in our resolution at the time, this was a compulsory system which would apply to all flights from Danish airports, and we also proposed that it should be DKK 5. per plane ticket. The examination of the motion for a resolution led to the drafting of a report and the setting up of a working group with the industry to try to make some suggestions as to how this might look. It has to be said that the committee work in which the industry was involved did not agree on much, to put it mildly. Nevertheless, this draft law, L 67, was tabled, and it was very, very far from Enhedslisten's original proposal, and it had to be said that there was a whole industry which was quite, quite unhappy. That is why, at first reading, Enhedslisten and others' parties were also calling on the Minister to resume dialogue with the industry to restore this, if I may say so. We are pleased to note that the dialogue was resumed and we must also note that the legislative proposal now before us has been completely changed in relation to what was put forward through a series of amendments by the Minister. We must also note that it is now far, far closer to Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution B 117 from 2013. This is a compulsory scheme, the payment of which is charged together with the flight ticket. This applies to all flights out of Danish airports, and it effectively repeals the judgment of the Østre Landsret of 4 July 2012 in which Norwegian was not covered by the bankruptcy insurance applicable to the Travel Guarantee Fund. We also welcome the removal of the minimum limit of 25 000 passengers. There are some shortcomings: Domestic travel is not covered, and the reason was Cimber Sterling's bankruptcy, where a number of domestic passengers were affected. We also think that the amount of 2 kr. is just low enough. You could say a lot about that, because when Enhedslisten proposed 5 DKK, we were kissed a lot that it was an incredibly low amount and that it would be many years before the fund would be built up. We can now see from the answer we have received to question 3, that it even with 2 kroner. We are, of course, very pleased with this, also because there will be an opportunity to borrow in the package travel fund for the new flight fund. It's really good. That is why we have also failed to table amendments, and we note, as I have said, that the new legislative proposal L 67, after re-examination, if I may say so, has come much closer to our original resolution, so we are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144445	Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144454	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-17, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of LA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144516	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144536	Yeah, he's tireless. However, when I take the floor, it is of course because Enhedslisten has tabled three amendments to the bill, which means that the fees proposed by authorisation are directly incorporated into the law. This must, of course, be compared with the fact that we are proposing that the fees that consumers have to pay should be reduced and that the fees that companies have to pay should be maintained at the level we know today. We think that a fee of 400 kr. For a lost cause for a consumer is far too high, and we cannot understand why the fees for companies will be reduced when one of the reasons for this bill, L 118, is the increased cost of implementing the EU directive in this area, which, after all, is drawing up a lot of new areas. I believe that these are some forty areas within the consumer complaints system. It may then seem strange that you want to cut the fees for companies, and you can only suspect that it is such a form of hidden business support under the guise of the consumer complaints system. After all, the amendments tabled by the Enhedslisten need to be corrected, patching up a miserable legislative proposal which, in our opinion, reduces consumer protection and which strengthens businesses vis-à-vis consumers. It is also one of the aims of the comments that is directly related to getting people to refrain from complaining. Then there is one outstanding, which comes from Bill L 54 back in 2013. This is indeed the right of appeal in relation to postal charges. We can see that this bill does not address the problem that this bill does not provide any kind of redress in relation to the private parking tax regime. This is, of course, due to the fact that the de minimis threshold laid down in the bill is DKK 1,000, and by far, the vast majority of parking tickets or parking fees are less than DKK 1,000. That was, of course, the intention, and that was also what was said when we dealt with Bill L 54 at the time, that it should precisely ensure the implementation of the ADR directive, the EU directive in this area. The implementation of Danish law was precisely intended to ensure that there was a right of appeal in this area. This was what we were told at the time... either in the form of being under the public appeal system or a private appeal board. We have to say that this is not the case with this bill. The Minister answers one of the questions we have asked in committee that the industry itself can establish a private appeal board. However, where should the motivation for the industry come to establish a private appeal board when consumers are now referred to a much, much more expensive court proceedings? So there is no motivation for that. That is why we have to note that L 118 does not honour the promises made in the discussion of L 54 at the time, and we therefore note that the Folketing has been well and thoroughly conducted around the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144908	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414144920	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-4, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL) on Amendment No 1. 5, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and LA) or on Amendment No 5. 6-8, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (LA and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of 14 (EL, LA and ALT), against 85 (V, S, DF, RV and KF), abstentions 7 (SF). The proposal has been rejected. The vote will also be taken on Amendment No 17. 10 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (LA and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (EL, LA and ALT), against 84 (V, S, DF, RV and KF), abstentions 7 (SF). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (LA and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 15 (EL, LA and ALT), against 83 (V, S, DF, RV and KF), abstentions 7 (SF). The proposal has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 12-15, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414145141	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414145156	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414145224	Then we go to the first readings. I ask for a quiet departure from the Chamber if you do not want to stay here. The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414145259	Thank you. The proposal we are considering today is a product of the agreement reached in December last year between some parties here in the Danish Parliament. The aim of the proposal, and therefore also of the agreement, is to curb tax evasion in the event of corporate abuse by concealing the ownership of companies. There is, of course, wide scope for this, despite the rules that the Folketing has adopted anyway. One of the things that must be involved, like opening up to companies, is the Public Register of Owners, which is about to enter into operation now. It is the case, when you choose to operate in company form, that you usually have a limited liability. One cannot be sued for the company's obligations, but the counterpart is that there is a certain publicity about the company's affairs, including the disclosure of accounts, for example. The proposal we are debating today has several elements in it. The first element is a ban on the new issue of bearer shares. Unlike ordinary shares, where one should be listed in the company's owner's book, bearer shares are shares where one legitimises oneself to the company and the outside world by the actual share letter that one has received. And that is what must now be banned. It has been thought that this is a way of secretly owning shares of companies where ownership can thus be blurred. The Left has no problem with that element. It is already very few shares that circulate as bearer shares, and if you are a shareholder, then you must put up with being treated in the same way as other shareholders, namely by registering your ownership in the company's ownership book and therefore also in the Public Register of Owners. That is the ban on the so-called bearer shares. The second element of the bill is the registration in the Public Register of Owners of existing bearer shares. Therefore, for those who are in circulation, the same rules should apply as for the rest of the stock area. You own more than 5%. of the share capital or voting rights, one must register in the Public Register of Owners. This will also be the case with bearer shares. The third element is that limited liability companies must also be included in the Public Register of Owners, which currently covers only limited liability companies, public limited liability companies and partner companies. Commandant societies also have to be involved, and it must be understood that it is both who are complimentaries and who are commanders who should be registered in this way. I shall not be able to say how correct it has been, but at least it has been suggested in the daily press that very limited companies are widely used for various kinds of hidden activities. It's not something I've ever known. There it is mainly the tax element that makes people operate in limited companies, but at some point it was at least encouraging that Russian investors also used Danish limited companies, but, as I said, I have no scientific idea of whether it is right or not. But at least now it will be the case that the limited liability companies will also be subject to the same disclosure rules in the Register of Owners, which will apply to the other companies of public limited liability companies and limited liability companies, etc. The fourth element is that the Erhvervsstyrelsen must be given the authority to carry out unannounced inspections at a larger group than they do today. It is the case that the Danish Business Administration can carry out inspections at all these liberal professions, but only unannounced inspections at exchange companies. The possibility of carrying out unannounced inspections is now being extended so that it is not only with money-changing companies that you can enter unannounced, but also with real estate agents, accountants, accountants, etc. etc. We in the Left have noted that the comments state that unannounced inspections of the other persons I have just mentioned can only be carried out to the extent that the purpose of the inspection would otherwise be lost. And with those comments, it may also be natural to equate companies on this point. The final element is that SKAT will be given better opportunities for information about what the CSD has of information regarding owner and shares. The CSD is shown what is called VP Securities today, and it is in relation to who owns shares issued through the CSD. Summa summarum will be a large-scale anti-disclosure of the ownership of companies, and the Left will be able to support the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414145815	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414145818	Normally, the Left is very sceptical about over-implementing EU directives and with good reason. At least that is something that the President of the Left often talks about is a problem. Nevertheless, I have to say that time and again we find that the Left is voting in favour of over-implementing EU directives, and so is the case in this area. The fact is that it goes far beyond the scope of the EU directive, the money laundering directive. At the same time, I have also heard that the Left problematises also rightly, I think that the public sector has been given too wide an opportunity to enter private property, private companies, that is, that section 72 of the Constitution is under pressure. That is what we are voting for here. The lawyer's council has given a very critical hearing answer and does not believe that it can be justified. How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that, on the one hand, one thing is said in public and, on the other hand, one thing is said in public, while, as we now see an example, we are voting against it, that is to say we are entering into agreements which are in the very opposite direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414145933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414145935	In any case, the final conclusion must be for the questioner's own account, that is to say, to say something publicly and then to do something else. That's not exactly what I recognize here. The Left, as a clear policy, has to ensure that everyone pays the taxes and abides by the rules that are required in this country. And when the rapporteur asks how we feel about perhaps adopting more stringent regulations here than those coming from the European Union, I must say that if the Danish Parliament believes that a provision which may have a basis in the European Union should be stricter in Denmark, then the Folketing is free to adopt such a provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150015	It is, of course, free from the Danish Parliament that is not the problem I am discussing. I think it should also be. However, what I have to say here is that it is often said that it is a problem to overimplement EU legislation in Danish legislation and yet you help to do it yourself. The problem is that the state has wide powers in relation to section 72 of the Constitution, and then you vote in favour of extending those powers. There is no question of us not wanting tax legislation to be complied with, but here, for example, there is one. It is not only the case that the authorities get an insight into who owns companies, but also the public gets an insight into it. Here, too, we are moving towards Swedish and Norwegian conditions, where there is much, much openness about who owns what, and that is also causing some problems, in relation to whether you want to invest, etc., because there may be very natural reasons why you want to keep ownership secret and that it has nothing to do with criminality. But I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur recognise that we are voting in favour of over-implementing here? Is it recognized that the State is being given further powers in relation to entering private property, private enterprise?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150138	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150139	Yes, I can only say that, fortunately, it is not the case that, because the European Union has spoken in a given area, we are not allowed to have a position here in Denmark. And then the rapporteur can call it an over-implementation. That is not how I see it. It is a question of the European Union having a position on the area. But that certainly does not prevent the Danish Parliament from adopting what the rapporteur might interpret as tougher rules. So we already have, I must say, rules in, for example, the Code of Criminal Procedure on searches and the like, which is far above what the European Union has, and we would not call that an over-implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150217	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And I shall now give the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150226	Thank you, sir. President. Denmark was recently awarded the honour, according to Forbes Magazine, that we are the best country in the world to operate in. And when companies have such good opportunities to do business in Denmark, it is among other things. because of our investment in a high level of education, a good infrastructure and a strong welfare society. And, of course, when companies get something out of Community investment, companies must also contribute to the maintenance and development of the community over tax. As part of the tax havens agreement of December, we are now dealing with this bill, which creates more transparency about ownership of shares and thus clarity about who will pay tax on any dividends. The bill contains amendments to four different legal complexes and the first amendment is in the Companies Act. Here the bearer shares are characterized by the fact that the company does not know the owner, unlike the ordinary shares, name shares, and the change here in the proposal then removes the possibility of issuing these bearer shares. And for the existing bearer shares, the bill means that owners are required to register and, if they are not registered, they lose, for example. the right to vote at general meetings and the right to receive dividends. However, the dividend may be paid when the owner of the share, if it occurs within 20 years, makes himself registered and makes himself known and pays the tax to which the owner is subject. The second amendment concerns the tax control law. The change gives SKAT access to the CSD's information on the owners of the bearer shares, thus giving SKAT better opportunity to establish ownership without the companies having to report themselves. The third amendment concerns the law on certain economic undertakings. The amendment creates further transparency about ownership in Danish companies by extending the register of legal owners to not only capital companies but also limited companies. The last law to be amended is the law on money laundering. In fact, the change allows the Danish Business Authority's money laundering supervision to be extended in order to carry out unannounced inspections. Where, in the past, the Board has had the opportunity to carry out unannounced checks at exchange offices, it is extended to unannounced checks at real estate agents, accountants, tax advisors and external accountants. This is because illegal transfers of money abroad are increasingly being seen from these types of companies. During the consultation process, we have seen general support for the bill, but some critical voices have also emerged. The draft law has also been slightly adapted so that the least possible economic and administrative costs for businesses will be incurred without compromising the effectiveness of the law. Several consultation parties have also expressed concern that the draft law is about this new modern word, which has also been used in the Chamber today, namely over-implementation of the recommendations and directives coming from the OECD and the EU respectively. There are, however, several initiatives from other countries in this area, i.e. countries with which we are usually compared, which introduce measures to the same extent and in the same areas as those we present here today in the draft law. Thus, Denmark will not be so significantly different from Norway, Sweden, Finland, Iceland when it comes to terms for investors. Finally, I would like to say that we are fighting tax cover and money laundering without making it more difficult to operate in Denmark. We must maintain our position as the place in the world where companies thrive best, but at the same time we must also ensure that all companies contribute to the community. Only if everyone pays the tax as they should, will there also continue to be the affordability of creating a favourable business climate, from which companies benefit so well and which is a natural consequence of a strong welfare society. With the increased transparency that we are now introducing here with the bill about the ownership of shares, this bill ensures that more Danes will pay the tax they have to pay. The Social Democrats can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150638	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150650	As the rapporteurs of the Left and the Social Democrats have said earlier in the legislative process of L 172, it is part of a tax havens package, an agreement that is also part of the Danish People's Party and which was concluded in December 2014. In the Danish People's Party, we think it is reasonable that where it makes sense, we should also put in place increased supervision and also with increased opportunities to collate registers and other things to ensure that people pay the taxes that they have to pay, no more and no less. That is why we also think that the four proposals contained in this legislative proposal are all helping to make it more transparent and also, in a fair and fair way, to ensure that there is a better chance of coming after those who do not pay their taxes at a good heart but who may be a little more willing to try out borders, one might say. SKAT will have increased opportunities to enter through register coordination with the CSD and to seek information about owners of shares, such as: issued through the CSD. It is also the case that the Public Register of Owners has more scope for action in relation to limited companies. We also secure a greater opportunity for the Danish Business Authority's supervision of money laundering in Danish companies. So, overall, we really think that the sub-elements that lie here, which are perhaps relatively few compared to the many that come under the tax minister's remit, but which are also part of the overall tax havens agreement, make good sense. They will not result in a greater regulatory burden for the companies concerned; on the contrary, it will be a good way of ensuring that people pay the tax they are going to pay, no more or less. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150853	Thank you. And then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414150904	Today we are dealing with L 172, which is part of the tax havens package. I think the four points have been explained quite well, i.e. those relating to the bearer's shares, the lifting to issue new and rules for the already issued • that SKAT will have access to the securities central bank's information, that the limited liability companies will be registered and that the Danish Business Authority will have the opportunity to be visited by companies supervised under the law on money laundering. We may think that it is many times and that it is often we stand here and pass new laws dealing with tax havens, but unfortunately it is also the case that those we try to keep in check are also good at making up new things. Then we, as politicians and as those who make the rules, must come after the places where we believe there may be gaps. Because it is the case that companies must, of course, pay their taxes here in Denmark and that they must follow the rules. That is why Radicals support L 172.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414151008	Thank you. Then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414151019	Thank you. The SF supports the proposal. We are pleased that in recent years we have been able to make a relatively comprehensive tax havens package, not one to create tax havens, but to counter tax havens. The largest part is in the Treasury, and then there is a part in the Ministry of Business and Growth. If you look through it a little, I think you will see that there are 16 initiatives. Fortunately, this is an important step in a more and more internationally coordinated fight against tax havens. So the grip that is being proposed here are, of course, some that we should certainly have made a long time ago. But the new one is fortunately that there is a slightly greater understanding of this in the wake of the economic crisis and the speculative wave that hit the world and did so much damage to these 5-10 years ago and that we are still cleaning up after. So I see this as a significant step forward, and if you add it to the other initiatives under the auspices of the Ministry of Taxation, which started with the open tax lists, then we have got better tools than we have had before. Let us be honest, then, that we are not in place, of course, but the good thing here is that there are quite a lot of us here to adopt this. I think that is also an important part of the fact that this is being carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414151210	Thank you. Then we'll go straight to mr. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414151218	The reason for this bill is, of course, some revelations that we have known about for years, but it came so massively that Denmark abroad has been marketed as a country that could benefit from the creation of a company in and thus avoid paying taxes. Among other things: in Russia, there was this kind of marketing in relation to setting up a company in Denmark and then not paying taxes. We have known the model for many years when companies abroad send the money via Denmark to a tax haven. Traffic has been more or less supported by different tax laws over time. Some of those holes have been closed. At one point, Denmark was actually on the list, now I do not remember whether it was in the EU or in the OECD, as a tax haven. After all, we hurried to close one of the most obvious gaps in transporting money through Denmark without paying taxes. Some of those holes have been closed. There are more that will be closed with this, and there will be more transparency with this bill, which we of course also support; we have been involved in the agreement behind the bill. However, it is of course very interesting that we often deal with legislative proposals which include safeguards, both in tax and in business terms. In other words, we know very well that we are protecting ourselves against those who want to cheat, and then we are making a safeguard rule. And we also know as a rule that every time we make a safeguard rule, there are probably some who bypass the protection and yet find loopholes to try to abuse Denmark for tax evasion purposes. That is why we have to ask once in a while that there is at all a construction where we have to establish protection against cheating, and there really must be a good reason why we have that construction. And that is what we have asked about sometimes, and I would also like to ask today I do not think we have received a good answer if we have had any answer at all at any time: is there any reason at all to have commanding companies with the special rules attached to it? If it is the case that you want to operate, and I mean real business, not just tax speculation, but real business, in Denmark, there are lots of company designs: partnerships, public limited companies, entrepreneurship companies, you name it • there are so many possibilities. You can also run a company in private ownership if you want to. So there are plenty of options. What are the options open to limited companies that do not exist in other types of companies? I don't think there's anyone there. I really believe that the only ones who will be really sad if we remove the limited company are those who are in pain in the treasure. And those who are about up in age can remember how back in time they made limited companies in connection with ownership of ships, where they really scooped tax relief home. Well, there it was really dramatic. It was then stopped, fortunately, but the only thing stopped for the small investors was that the big investors could still leave if they had enough money. You set such a limit on how much commitment you had to be to be able to use this scam. We have foreign companies that use it in a different way. That is my question to the Minister: we support it here, we do, of course, and next time there is a proposal to tighten some rules to strengthen the protection against tax fraud, we also support it, but was it not time we considered whether it was at all a good idea to have a corporate partnership?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414151614	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414151629	The bill we are discussing here is the implementation of the tax havens agreement agreed between all the parties of the Folketing shortly before Christmas. Sometimes you have a feeling that if you just call a deal the right thing, the parties can't help it. I mean, if you call something a tax haven, you almost have to be there because who is not against tax havens. At least that's what we're getting the impression of is why the bourgeois parties have jumped on this. The proposal contains a number of elements. As of 1 July 2015, it is no longer possible to issue new bearer shares. You have to register in the public register of ownership. Commandant companies have to do that, too. This means that personal investment and tax conditions are laid out in public view, and so it is not only the authorities that gain insight into who owns these limited companies, so does the public. This is an over-implementation of the EU money laundering directive in several areas. This bill requires real owners to be registered in the register with an ownership interest of just 5%, where the directive provides for a 25% stake. In other words, there are a number of areas where the EU's money laundering directive is over-implemented, and unfortunately, we often see that civil parties, who speak in public against over-implementation, add votes to it in this Chamber. We find this highly regrettable and also untrustworthy. One of the elements of the bill is that the Danish Business Authority is given the right to make unannounced visits to accountants and real estate agents. I cannot help quoting the Chairman of the Conservatives, Mr Søren Pape, from Berlingske only yesterday. There he was quoted as: In the end, Søren Pape will make a significant reduction in the number of laws that break with the starting point of section 72 of the Constitution that the individual Dane's residence is inviolable unless the authorities have a warrant in their hands when they appear at one's property or business. When you read the Lawyer's Council's hearing answer, you can see that they write there: The Lawyer's Council considers, however, that provisions such as the present one, which constitute an exception to the constitution's starting point on the inviolability of the dwelling, should only be applied where it is not possible with a less restrictive means to take account of control considerations. Unnotified verification visits should therefore be the exception. They further write: The Council of Attorneys does not consider that the draft law on this issue contains a factual justification for derogating from the basic principle of the inviolability of the dwelling. Therefore, in the view of the Lawyers' Council, there are significant legal concerns regarding the implementation of the extension of the scope of unannounced verification visits. So it is a question of saying one thing, but the next day you do something else. It is unfortunately untrustworthy, and we really would have liked the Conservative People's Party to think that the inviolability of housing, Paragraph 72 of the Constitution, was as important to them, for the Conservative People's Party as it is to the Liberal Alliance. So we see that in this case is not right. We must remember that there are always good reasons; we can always give good reasons why we want to do away with a principle, and when we talk about tax evasion and so on, it may seem as if it is a very good idea that here we have to make an exception, but as bourgeois liberals we have to say that there are some more important principles than others, and there is not much to suggest that this should mean less tax fraud. After all, you have to keep weighing up some principles against each other and some relationships against each other, and this is something that affects everyone. That is, is it the case that the gains from this bill outweigh the negative? We don't believe that. I can quote Danish Occupation, which writes in its hearing answer: Denmark is at risk of being much worse in the competition to attract capital to the country as a result of this bill. That is why we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152111	Thank you. Then it is precisely the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152121	The Conservative People's Party is very concerned about the fight against tax havens. Those cases that have been from countries and companies no one mentioned, no one forgotten... show that we have a real challenge. That is why we have continually tightened up the legislation in this area, not only when we were in government but also by entering into agreements with the government to ensure that you pay the tax that you now have to pay. We often think it is too high and too far-reaching, but we have to pay what we have agreed, and we cannot simply escape into tax havens. The government then set up a package in this area, one in the Ministry of Taxation and one in the Ministry of Industry. We chose not to participate in it in the Ministry of Taxation, because we thought it was too zealous, too problematic for the companies, and it suspected the companies, while the one we agreed on in the Ministry of Business was constructive and had a completely different approach to companies, including international companies, benefiting Danish society. So we chose to join it. So far, so good. In the agreement, and especially here in the implementation of the bill, it is stated directly that the amendment of the law, which has been proposed here, means that the Danish Business Authority can at any time, against proper legitimation and without a court order, have access to persons and companies involved in what the Danish management will control. We are not going to say yes to the fact that another board can go on unannounced visits around the courts, because one can fight cheating without giving permission for control without a court order. So that is one of the things we would like to discuss, including during the committee procedure. We basically think the proposal is quite excellent, but that part of this is also seen in the light of the discussion that we have had in relation to the acceleration, the inflation that has been in the powers of the state, for governments to be able, without a court order, to enter people's grounds, it is necessary to have a look at. Justitia stated here last week that 268 authorisations had been granted to enter without a necessary court order. So our attention here is that we should not just be able to give governments and the state the right to enter without any kind of court order. You can also easily come after tax havens and criminals, catch them and lock them up, without violating the legal awareness and legal certainty of court orders. So we, the Conservatives, would like to support increased control and thorough control, but we want to make sure that there is a court order in the individual case. We can also support unannounced checks if there is a court order. Because we trust that, if our neutral court says that there is something to come for with control, then there is something to come for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152415	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152418	Well, I'd like to sign for that from the Liberal Alliance. I had the impression that the Conservative People's Party had entered into an agreement with the government and the other parties, where it had, like, been read through here. It is clear in the agreement what it contains, also that the Danish Business Authority will be empowered to go on these unannounced inspections, and I had the impression that this was well known when the agreement was concluded. But, of course, I'm really happy to hear that I heard that the Conservative People's Party will not agree to the agreement unless that element comes out of the agreement. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152500	It is well understood that the debate that has taken place and which I actually saw that all parties, regardless of party color, agreed to the principle in the light of Justitia's statement that there had been an inflation in the number of authorisations to enter the public domain without a court order means that, like saying that we are now raising the flag. We will, of course, discuss this with the other parties in this agreement. We think it is a really bad idea to give this opportunity to the Danish Business Administration, and of course we will have to discuss this with our conciliation partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152527	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152528	Just to make it clear: Is it to be understood that the Conservative People's Party does not help the Danish Business Authority to carry out unannounced inspections of accountants and real estate agents, as otherwise stated in the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152546	It must be clearly understood that we are opposed to public authorities being so per year. I think that is something that is politically agreed in the Folketing. Now there's an opportunity. For now we are dealing with a legislative proposal on the basis of an agreement that we ourselves have been involved in and in which such an opportunity is given. Then we raise the flag because there is now an opportunity to say stop. That is our position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152614	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152618	Thank you. In December it is approx. 5 months ago, the Conservative People's Party, represented by Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, after all, this agreement and, as has been said by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, it is clear from the agreement what it contains. Now the Conservative rapporteur stands here and shuns the agreement of Parliament's platform. Mr. Brian Mikkelsen himself, that it's believable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152643	I'm afraid I didn't hear the last of it, but I can guess what was said. Well, that is the way politics has to judge whether you think an agreement is good or bad, both when you sit with the final text, but also when you stand and have to take a position on it in the Parliamentary Assembly. And in the light of the debate that has been going on about the many authorisations, according to Justitia, there are grounds for entering private property without a court order, we say stop now, and we will also appeal to the other parties in the agreement to do so. That will be our way of getting to it, and it will have to be discussed and discussed. But I think it would suit us all to stop and think about whether there has been no inflation in the number of authorisations granted to public authorities. It's so easy to do it. I myself have been a minister, and it is easy to give the officials that opportunity. But now there is an opportunity to say no, and we will do so in this case, and we will, of course, discuss this with the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152739	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152740	Well then, I can only say that the Conservative People's Party is affected by electoral charities and that it is better than complying with the agreements that are being made to stand here and advertise everything else. Well, it is clear, and we have often discussed it in the field of taxation, that it is possible by law to derogate from Article 72 of the Constitution. Mr. Brian Mikkelsen and I discussed several times in the area of taxation in this Parliament. It is clear that this agreement was concluded in December. That Mr. Brian Mikkelsen and the Conservative People's Party under the leadership of Søren Pape Poulsen have come out there, where you are so pressured that you start running away from bell-clear agreements just to stand and lead yourself forward in the media, in advertising campaigns shortly before a popular election, seems quite untrustworthy. But that has been noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152833	I do not know whether I will continue the controversy from up here, because our starting point here is that we are on the side of the citizen, and I hope that the Socialists too are. I see that in many cases, too, from the Social Democratic point of view. Here we have a situation in which I have at least heard a Socialist rapporteur say that 268 authorisations to enter private property or businesses without a court order are too many and that we have to look at them again. That's where we say it's possible now with this bill. We are opposed to the many authorisations being given, it is too easy, it does not ensure proper legal certainty. Now comes the first opportunity to say yes, and we do so on the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152916	Thank you to all the rapporteurs. Then the Minister for Business and Growth has the opportunity to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414152926	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate and receipt of the proposal. It is true, as has been pointed out, that this is a political settlement involving all parties of the Folketing minus the Liberal Alliance. I am not going to go through all the individual elements of the agreement, but just a few of them. Indeed, I agree with the rapporteurs of the SF and the Enhedslisten when they very clearly emphasise that one of the intentions is to ensure that we are not on any list abroad, in other words internationally, where Denmark can be associated with tax speculation or tax cheating. We must combat this, and we must fight it as far as possible. There are very many good reasons for this, not least because we have to finance the welfare society, and also for the sake of all those who are actually behaving properly, and all those who have their competitive power destroyed, for example, by others who do not. Are we ever gonna finish the job? I'm sure we won't. That is also what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said in his deliberations. But I think it's a job it's worth continuing to work hard to get as far as possible. Now I am in favour of free international capital movements. I think that is very good, also for Danish industry and for wealth around the world, but it also means that per year. This is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution to the effect that there is a need for the European Parliament to have a say in this matter. Fortunately, we are going some way, including through the OECD, the European Union and other things, and I would really like us to go further. That is certainly the aim of this government. We will then take some important steps here, but as has also been mentioned in relation to the legislative proposal, the conciliation text and other matters, we will, for example, examine whether we can go further in relation to when we talk about country-by-country reporting and where else we can tackle this. In this context, may I not welcome the fact that there is one small thing in the agreement, among other things. obtained with inspiration from SF, that we should try to make a Danish fair tax mark. This may seem a small thing, but I really like the fact that large Danish and international companies, which have already gone into CSR work and have also entered fair trade and other things and have taken it on themselves, maybe will also go in here and contribute constructively to getting such a fair tax label. That may not be what is changing the whole world, but I really think it is a fine step in the right direction, a positive step and a tangible one. So I welcome that, and I really have some pretty high expectations that we will get it done. Then Enhedslisten's rapporteur asks me very specifically whether exactly the corporate form of limited liability companies is absolutely necessary. It can be said that there is a great variety of forms of company, but for all types of company it is true that if you want to swindle, you can try with both the one, the other and the third type of company. What this is all about, of course, is ensuring that the legislation and control are so good that we can also come after it. Of course, in the case of the limited liability companies, it is a joint liability which is peculiar to the way in which it is linked. It can then be limited or unlimited. Then, of course, there is also a tax element in it, as soon as you get an immediate discount in connection with, for example, your top tax. What we have done by the government and the way we have dealt with it so far is to ensure that such a product is properly labelled. That is to say, there is a very, very red flag next to the dotted line you have to sign on, in order to know what risk you are taking. Unfortunately, it has happened sometimes, when there have been rise times in Denmark, that too many have become too careless. It's typical under bourgeois governments, I've noticed that it happens. Then in the '00s you happily go down and buy ship shares or you're going to go into too many weird K/S companies and other engagements, and suddenly one day the bill comes, and it can be really serious for many people. On the other hand, of course, we must also say that there are a number of projects which would never have been started if we did not have this type of company. It is also my impression that it has contributed to some good things. But we have so far chosen to say that the right way to make sure of ourselves in relation to the different types of companies is to make those who sign and engage in this fully aware of what they are undertaking. So that seems to us to have been a good step on the way. Then I understand that there is an exciting idea-political debate going on in a bourgeois Denmark on property rights and principles for the implementation of EU directives and other things. It reminds me very much of something I heard when I was very young, where you should also try to come up with some principles about being a citizen. Back then, things went wrong, and it's going wrong this time too. At least it's getting more and more cramped. The idea of never over-implementing an EU directive, what does it actually say? Yes, it says that the EU is allowed to define where the limit goes to one's own sound judgment. Well, that's a weird way of thinking, isn't it? It is actually a strange idea that if you now think you want to make some legislation in addition to what the European Union has included as a minimum, then you have to allow yourself to be restricted by it for the sake of a principle, because you think it is popularly clever. I think it's a strange debate you've got going on, but please keep me going, because the entertainment value is high, and we're gonna find example by example where you can't keep your own principles. So it will be enjoyable if nothing else, but it is not very wise. Then, in relation to the agreement and the discussion that has been about what authority the Business Administration should have, may I quote briefly from the agreement. It says on page 3 of the agreement, and I quote: "In addition to the parties to the agreement, the responsible authority (Erhvervsstyrelsen) is authorised to carry out unannounced inspections of real estate agents, accountants, tax advisors and external accountants, as well as the so-called service providers. The possibility of carrying out unannounced inspections shall be used in particular if the purpose of the inspection would otherwise be lost if the inspection was announced. I guess it can't be said any more clearly, I guess. And, of course, you can be sorry about what you signed. That is also possible, but I now think it is quite explicit here. Then it can be said, and I think this is fair, that we should be sure, both in the observations made by the law and in relation to the questions put to us in and around the legislative procedure, that this is not just some carte blanche for behaving beyond all borders. I think that is fair, but I think that the answer has also been given, according to the comments made by the rapporteur in the House today. It is therefore the case, and we can confirm this also in the committee's work, that inspections will only be carried out without notice in cases where it is the Erhvervsstyrelsen's specific assessment that it is necessary and verification visits will be carried out in accordance with general principles of legal certainty, including, for example, the prohibition of self-incriminating. So I would say that we are on the absolutely sure side, including with regard to the legal requirement vis-à-vis the citizens. I can't help the fact that it can be disturbing when it comes to inventing mysterious principles over on the bourgeois side in relation to the battle of values. It is difficult to have such principles when you have to deal with reality, but the reality is much better, it can be recommended, and therefore, if you just let principles be principles and you so vote for what is reasonable, I am very happy. Here too, however, there will be no great academic debate about protecting privacy and other matters, while at the same time fighting tax havens, without any provision being made for someone to do something that is illegal, for someone to be able to make unannounced visits. That goes without saying. That is what is meant by it, and that is why it is common sense in this case too, and it is on that basis that we clearly recommend that we stick to our text and that we stick to what the original starting point here has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414153841	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. No, there was a brief comment from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. So the Minister can move back to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414153900	I'm sorry, sir. Minister. We can have some discussion about the importance of section 72 of the Constitution and also about how it is interpreted and the spirit of it. This is certainly something that we attach great importance to as a bourgeois-liberal party, that is, respect for it. But this is not really the discussion I wish to have with the Minister here. I just want to ask the Minister's position. So, when this deal was made, was there any ambiguity that the Danish Business Administration was given this authority to go in and make unannounced visits to accountants and real estate agents? Could it have been misunderstood in any way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414153953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414153955	I don't want to answer what other people could have misunderstood and not misunderstood, it might be too extensive. I read from the conciliation text, and I think it's crystal clear, that's the way it is. I do not really have much to add to what the text says. But I also stress that it is fair enough to report a concern about the extent to which that power could be used, to what extent it might be abused and other things, and to ask questions in and on the subject, so that you can be insured there. I have no problem with that, and I am very, very happy to respond to it in the committee's work forwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154036	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154037	Finally, I would like to say that the Minister is a little concerned that the discussion which then goes on about the part of the draft law on the possibility for the Danish Business Authority to go on unannounced inspections should be a discussion which raises itself to some very important principles and that it should be something that we bourgeois care a great deal about here. When you read the hearing answers, you can see that it is also the case that the Lawyers' Council has very serious concerns about that part of the bill, and they think that you sort of cross the line here in relation to section 72 of the Constitution. It's just to point out that this isn't the kind of thing we're making up and pulling out of the blue. I also believe that there is one more hearing answer which expresses concern. The auditors' hearing response expresses concern about that part of the bill. It's just to say that this isn't something we're just making up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154135	Now it was something that you mentioned and emphasised in connection with the debate in this Chamber, and then I thought it was natural to comment on it, also because it was part of the debate. I note that this was raised in connection with Mr Beazley's report. Søren Pape's chronicle and that one would discuss what a real bourgeois-liberal basic principle is in this case and other. That's just what I was commenting on, and I wanted good luck with the debate, but I also foresaw and it was a sure prognosis that it would go wrong for you in that debate. In general terms, I would say that if a bourgeois idea debate is to unfold, one should seek inspiration elsewhere. For example, I can recommend many good discussion books written over time by Mr. Bertel Haarder; they are always very inspiring.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154219	With this edifying conclusion, I think we can move on to the next item on the agenda. I thank the Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154244	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154303	Thank you. The Danish employment system is among the world's most expensive. We spend 8 billion each year. kr. In addition, the cost of administrative and support expenditure of some 72 billion will be included in the actual active employment effort. kr. At a time when every penny in the public sector has to be turned around to ensure that we get as much money as possible, it is crucial that we spend the money where it does the most good. After all, the main aim of the employment effort is to get the unemployed back to work. From day one, the Left has maintained that money can be found in the employment system, money that can be spent on job creation, and the agreement we are discussing here today has now succeeded. In particular, as part of our employment reform, with effect from 2016, a refund is being made, and the settlement we reached before the summer break provides the framework for the municipalities to take the best possible action that will bring as many people into employment as possible, so that each individual can become self-sufficient. The system of State reimbursement today consists of an extremely complex set of rules, including: The rate of reimbursement varies according to type of benefit, and it can, of course, for even the best municipalities, take the focus away from the real effort when it comes to organising the employment effort so that it works best. The Left therefore supports this change in reimbursement in this draft law that we are dealing with today, and it means a much simpler and more transparent system. In concrete terms, the draft law consists of the following elements: a small proportion of municipal expenditure is directly compensated by reimbursement and, as I have said, a larger share through general grants or by objective criteria. This ensures a greater financial incentive for individuals to prevent long-term public support. The rules for state reimbursement are simplified, so it is the same rate of reimbursement, regardless of what benefit the citizen is in. The rates of reimbursement are reduced over time from 80%. for the first 4 weeks, 40%. from week 5 to week 26, 30%. from week 27 to weeks 52 and 20 per cent, when it has gone further than 1 year and you are still away on a transfer income. A common Community IT solution system is also being developed to calculate the reimbursement requirement on the basis of actual payments in the municipalities, the cashiers and the state authorities. We will only be able to implement this common IT solution by the end of 2018, which is why it is also proposed that we have a temporary transitional solution where STAR can be helpful in this phase to ensure that the municipalities receive their reimbursement and receive their co-financing. In other words, the reimbursement rates for the state reimbursement to the municipalities will be the same across benefits, and the reimbursement conversion will mean that the municipalities will have to take back reimbursement from the state according to a stair model, depending on how long the individual has been on public support expenditure. As I have said, the reorganisation will support the municipalities in offering more to the unemployed the efforts that help the individual closer to the labour market and in jobs, rather than focusing on placing citizens on benefits with the highest rate of reimbursement. The Liberal Group welcomes the fact that, with the reform of employment, and also with this reform of reimbursement, we are going to increase structural employment by approx. 3,000 people and that this will result in a total gain for the state of 2.1 billion. kr. for the period from 2018 to 2020. With these words, I would like to say today that the Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154754	There are several brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154757	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would like to ask: why, however, should it improve the efforts of the municipalities towards the unemployed and the sick citizens, that the municipality itself should pay a much greater share of the cost of social benefits and labour market benefits? After 52 weeks, the municipalities will pay 80%. of these transfer income itself. How on earth could this improve the efforts of the municipalities? This can at most lead to either the municipality becoming poorer or the municipality making sure that the citizens are on the cheapest possible benefits, for example. In the case of social security, the local authority will not lose as much money as if the citizen is, for example. on sickness benefit. So what's the great idea in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414154847	If sir... Finn Sørensen looks at the history of the reimbursement rates and the number of people on the benefits in question, there will of course be too simple areas to show that when the reimbursement rate is high for the municipalities, more people are flowing into the benefits in question. So the municipalities are, in fact, very aware of where the economy is involved in making an effort. In this way, a system has been put in place so that the municipalities are more financially responsible, but also, what is to be said, so that the policy pursued in the individual municipality also has financial consequences for themselves in the individual municipality. It is therefore good that there is a link between the effort and the economy associated with the effort and the overall consistency. So all I see is that this can get better. Municipalities can become more concerned with making better employment efforts when the system is clear and everyone knows where the responsibility is. And that will help the unemployed to work faster than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155001	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155003	Is the rapporteur accusing the municipalities of placing a lot of people on, for example? cash sickness benefit and early retirement pension, which in reality does not deserve these princely benefits of DKK 16,000-17,000. a month? Is that what the rapporteur is saying? Or is the rapporteur claiming that if we reduce the reimbursement of the municipalities, that is to say. Does it make it more expensive for municipalities to have people on relatively high benefits or on transfer income at all, then citizens get healthy and get to work, or then suddenly a lot of jobs are created in the municipality, which makes these sick and unemployed people get to work? Can we not know what the purpose is actually to change these rates of reimbursement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155051	I should like to begin by saying to the rapporteur that I too believe that Mr Beazley's report is a good one. Finn Sørensen is aware that, overall, there will not be less money for the municipalities with this change, there will be no less money, but the system will be simpler, and I certainly believe that the municipalities will focus more on employment-oriented efforts rather than focusing on where the reimbursement rate is highest. I know that I am putting it at the forefront, but it has given rise to discussions over the years when the rate of reimbursement was different, depending on whether you are on sickness benefit or whether you are on cash benefits or whether you are on flexible benefits. That is why I think, and that is why we have reached this agreement with the government, that it is very sensible for there to be clear rules and for everyone to know what rules are to be played by. That is the greatest help we can give the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155153	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155158	After this bill, it will happen that the municipalities will have to pay 80%. of benefits after 52 weeks. It's expensive. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, whether this does not in fact mean that the draft law renews the interest of the municipalities in making people self-support, including self-supporting, by having no income. Has not this bill given the municipalities an extra economic interest in pushing people out of public systems completely, so they are completely naked without a penny on their pockets?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155244	I believe that with this bill we are following the line that has been taken since the municipal reform, where the municipalities were given greater responsibility for the employment effort. With this bill, they will also be given greater financial responsibility. When we talk about the employment effort, there is a better link between the efforts being made in each municipality and the economic consequences it has. I welcome that. I welcome the fact that, as a local politician, we can make a greater difference when we talk about employment policy, and I hope that Mr. Eigil Andersen agrees that employment policy needs to be raised on the agenda, because we need these people to get out and get a job and no longer be on public support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155343	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155344	It is good if people get to work if they are now outside the labour market. We agree on that. But here we are talking about people who have severe physical or psychological problems to deal with in everyday life. Then I will repeat my question, which was not answered: when after 52 weeks the municipalities have to pay 80%. of the benefit given to the person concerned, have the municipalities not, through this bill, been given a much increased motive for getting people completely away from public services, so that they are left naked without a penny on their pockets, without work, without income, without anything at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155421	Absolutely not. After all, we are not changing the criteria for obtaining a benefit. This is supposed to make municipalities more focused on getting people into jobs. After all, this bill does not change a comma on the right to sickness benefit or on the right to an early retirement pension, not a comma. This is about the fact that we need the municipalities to take hold of the individual and to ensure that people get to work more often and much earlier than they do today. That's the best we can do. And this proposal is certainly a step along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155504	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155513	Thank you, President. For the Socialists, it is crucial that we have an employment system that provides security if you lose your job but also ensure that people get back to work. It may sound obvious, very simple and straightforward, but the fact is that for too many years we have witnessed a system that has not had the task and thus has not focused on getting unemployed into work. With the way in which the reimbursement system is now organised, municipalities have great financial incentives to do everything but get citizens into employment. We, as a society, cannot live with that. If the total employment effort is to work, if we are to get people into work and have them clarified, the whole system must move in the same direction. Since the government stepped in, we've been working hard to make it work. With reforms of cash benefits, flexible jobs, early retirement and sickness benefit, we have insisted that every corner of the employment effort should put the citizen at the centre and not park anyone on passive support. We insist on having confidence that citizens want to work if they can, and here the municipal employment system must be a co-player. It has been seen in this light that we are today dealing with L 183. The bill is part of the agreement on the employment reform which the government entered into this summer with the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. The proposal means that the reimbursement to the municipalities in the employment effort will be reallocated. The aim is simply to support more efficient and simpler employment efforts. We must make it easy for the municipalities to organise the work that works best. We must make it easy for the municipalities to organise the effort that means that the individual unemployed is put at the centre of employment or early retirement. In concrete terms, this means that the State reimbursement of the municipalities' dependent expenses must, as a starting point, be the same across the benefits. This ensures a simple and transparent system as opposed to today. At the same time, the reimbursement rate will decrease over time, starting at 80%. the first 4 weeks until it is gradually escalated down to 20 per cent. from week 53. Similarly, a larger proportion of municipal expenditure is compensated by objective criteria. This, together with a separate flex contribution that supports the municipalities' creation of flex jobs, will create an employment system with a focus on the individual unemployed getting into work. The restructuring of the reimbursement is an essential part of the government's overall employment effort. In other words, it is essential that the reimbursement system works as intended, and therefore it is also very good that we among the parties to the agreement agree to follow developments closely, because when it comes to activation and transition to employment, the effect must be that which is the purpose of the change of reimbursement, namely more in employment. We want the employment effort to focus on the individual unemployed and to focus on the way to quickly getting into permanent work. The proposed reorganization of the reimbursement system is absolutely essential for this to be achieved. The Socialists can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155836	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155840	Thank you. It is obvious that the scheme proposed here penalises the municipalities with many unemployed, many long-term sicknesses and where there is no local labour market to welcome the unemployed and people with reduced working capacity. That should be pretty obvious. Then the question is just how it can be that the Socialists are helping to punish these municipalities and the penalty is that they have to pay a much greater proportion of the cost of the services. Why are the Social Democrats so happy about this? Is it because it is believed that there will be more jobs in Lolland and Langeland, because the municipalities are being penalised financially? Is that the philosophy behind this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414155928	I'm not in a position to lecture Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen. But I can teach Mr. Finn Sørensen about the attitudes of the Social Democratic Party. About this, you have to think that there's like two legs in it. Firstly, what I have mentioned in my speech is the whole employment effort and the reimbursement that must be made in connection with it, the incentives that need to be provided for the municipalities to act in the direction to which we would like them. The second part is about that, sir. Finn Sørensen mentions: what about the municipalities where there are many unemployed? Now I myself live in Lolland, so I am well aware of that problem. But, of course, we have also focused on this, and we, or others here, will have to meet in the Chamber in a moment and deal with L 171, which deals with precisely the issue that Mr. Finn Sørensen explains very well, namely that there are municipalities, we should say, hanging with a certain part of the water crust, because there are very many people in the population who are in the group we are talking about here. The intention is precisely to ensure that these municipalities are not affected by this. There will be a change in the way in which compensation is made between municipalities, so as to ensure that there are no municipalities, nor those where there are very many who are in receipt of the compensation that are affected by this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160040	Sir. Finn Sørensen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160043	Thank you. The rapporteur recognises that this will be a punishment. The rapporteur does not use that word, but it is becoming more expensive for the municipalities that have many unemployed because they have to pay a greater proportion of these benefits themselves. Then the rapporteur excuses himself by referring to the proposal for a directive on equal treatment, but it is clear from the legislative proposal we have to deal with here that what is still called, in a nice word, an economic incentive for municipalities is still missing, and that is what I would rather call a penalty because it is becoming more expensive. I would ask the rapporteur to consider whether the rapporteur agrees with the warnings given by the LO and the FTF in their response to the consultation, which states very clearly that it is to be expected that these reduced rates of reimbursement will create a strong economic incentive in the municipalities to push citizens out of public support • a trend which is already evident in the municipalities in the form of sickness benefit being closed by means of Section 7 of the sickness benefit law by week 22. Does the rapporteur share the concern expressed by the LO and the FTF here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160154	Thank you to the author for a question that went somewhat beyond 30 seconds ( Finn Sørensen Excuse me), but now we are giving the floor to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160200	Then I hope I get a little more than 30 seconds to answer in. I would say that there are two things in this. Firstly, there is an economic incentive for municipalities to take action quickly, as quickly as possible, to ensure that people who are sick or unemployed for one reason or another get a quick clarification, get treatment quickly and get back into the labour market as soon as possible, if possible. So it's true that there may be some thought I myself have given about that problem, compared to if it takes a long time, i.e. if we get to where there's only a 20% refund, for what? But I do not share that concern, because it is clear that if you have someone who has been outside the labour market for well over a year, and the reimbursement is only 20%, there is a powerful incentive to get him back on the labour market, because there is a great deal to be done by ensuring that the citizen gets out and works again instead of being on the breadwinner. So I don't share that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160300	Thank you. The next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160306	Now it has been said before in the debate that there are certain criteria to be met in order to obtain individual benefits. Of course there is, but we all know that there is a great deal of discretion involved in this. It's from the municipality too. We are faced with a person who has problems of a physical or mental nature. Should the person concerned continue to receive cash benefits, should he or should he or should he or she receive an early retirement pension, which is also a higher benefit, namely at the level of benefit? When the municipality has to make that estimate, will it be far cheapest for the municipality when it has to pay 80% that the person concerned comes on cash aid, and does the Socialist rapporteur not think, just as I think that the municipality's estimates will be marked by what is cheapest for the municipality's treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160402	I understand the questioner. When you look at the system we have today and see how the municipalities react, I understand that the questioner can think: what will happen in the future? But what has been the main aim here is precisely to ensure that, instead of looking at what is best for the municipality, the municipality looks at what is best for the citizen, how to ensure that the citizen gets the right treatment, so that the citizen gets back into the labour market and that the financial gain that can be gained from cash thinking is no longer present. I do not share the concern of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160439	Sir. Eigil Andersen, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160441	However, when the municipalities have to pay a higher proportion of the benefit after 52 weeks, 80%, this means that when the municipal managers keep their pep talk to the case workers and instruct them on what to do, and tell them that the municipality fund needs them to have as many as possible on the lowest benefits, then I can see nothing but that it is not the man who is at the centre, but the municipality fund that is at the centre. So I agree with the rapporteur that it should be human, but what good will it do if it becomes the municipal treasury in practice and people get down to the lowest possible income?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160517	Now I think that if you have a very short horizon and look straight at it, then the rapporteur is right to say that all the citizens with problems in the municipality must then have cash benefits. It's the cheapest thing we can do. But if you think a little bit more long-term and look just half a year further ahead in the municipal economy, you will see that all municipalities plan for more than one year at a time to make an effort and make as much effort as possible to get as many people as possible clarified, get them into employment, either in flex jobs or in ordinary work, then there is a lot of money to get for the municipality, and there is a lot to get for the citizen, because the citizen can then again become a part of society, instead of people as we see it today being driven around the system, as the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten has described so well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160611	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more colleagues have asked for access to short remarks. That is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's speaking series, and the next is Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414160622	Thank you, President. After all, this proposal results in an agreement on the basis of the employment agreement of last year, when we agreed that we should standardize the reimbursements to the municipalities. This happens, then, by aligning in future to 80, 40, 30 and 20 per cent, as has been mentioned sometimes. This is done in order to simplify administration and make it easier in the municipalities. Having said that, we can also see what action the municipalities should take. This should, of course, encourage the municipalities to make an extra effort and to comply with the legislation in this area, to get people on to the system so that they are not just placed on some sort of transfer income. Because if you have the opportunity to move forward and if you have the opportunity to get into the labour market with the right effort, you must of course do so. And if you have the opportunity to get a flex job with the right effort, you must of course do so instead of being parked on a certain performance. At the same time, it is also the case that the municipalities must make an effort to help people get to work if they go on unemployment benefits. You shouldn't just let people go as long as you can. The municipalities must make an effort and the better the municipalities do to the unemployed, the sick, the person on cash benefits, the person who has to have a flexible job, the person who may need an early retirement, the better it is, of course, for the individual, but the better the economy will also be for the municipal, precisely because they will get people out of work. As has also been said, this concerns not only what was involved in the employment agreement, but also the early retirement and flexible job reform, which the Danish People's Party is certainly not part of, but which is also included in it with refunds. It is so done that those who are on transfer income and who the municipalities do not really have the opportunity to do anything for and change anything for are exempt from these refunds. They're moving on to the old system. It is also the case that on the old early retirement pension from before 1 July 2014 they continue on the old reimbursement rate. It is the case that if flex workers lose their flex jobs and they have to be newly-visited, they will be covered by the new system here. However, account has been taken of the fact that the municipalities do not run into the fact that they will have a huge loss if everyone on early retirement had to be changed, precisely because this is more targeted where the municipalities can make an effort to improve conditions. All in all, the Danish People's Party considers this to be a good thing, but we still have a small comment on something that we do not really like. And that is simply because we do not believe that the ministers are meeting the agreements that exist. For this is to be seen in the context of the agreement of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior on foreigners in the municipalities. There was an agreement to look at the surplus that was made in relation to particularly disadvantaged municipalities. We have not finished that with the Minister for Economic Affairs, and he has promised to make a written statement on how it should be interpreted. We just didn't get it. That is why I must also acknowledge that this is something that we must continue to work on before we finish. Because we see that the two proposals are linked and, of course, we expect the Minister for Economic Affairs to live up to what he has to do. However, this will be dealt with in connection with the next proposal that will come later today. I just have to say that exactly this refund issue is also the reason why we have made the second agreement in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior on foreigners in the municipalities and redistribution in the municipalities. So they are a little connected and there is something we need to clarify there before we move on. I guess we can do that during committee reading of this bill. Basically, the Danish People's Party is of course in agreement with what is here, because we have been involved in this agreement. But there is the small problem there with the foreigners, and we shall get to grips with that with the Minister for Economic Affairs during the discussion of L 171, which we shall have later today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are two colleagues who have asked for access to short remarks. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161121	Thank you for the rapporteur's flexibility before, and I will endeavour to regain that 30 seconds. Let us now say that we are following the rapporteur's thinking, namely that this scheme will lead to the municipalities making an extra effort to get people into work, but what good will it do if there are no jobs if there is no local labour market that will accept the long-term unemployed, long-term sickness and people with disabilities? Why should the municipality be penalised for circumstances in which it has no influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161156	You can always discuss that, but you just have to keep in mind, for sir. Finn Sørensen is of course referring to the decreasing refunds and to the fact that they come down to 20%. After 1 year, the municipalities still receive employment grants, they receive money from the budget guarantee and are under the DUT regulation so that they go to zero. That is what is meant by it, so that the municipalities under one do not have a loss. We can then always discuss whether the funds will be redistributed well enough among the municipalities, but they will receive under budget guarantee and through employment subsidies and through the DUT payments, which they will not receive in reimbursement, and then it should go to zero. At least that is what the Ministry has written, and of course it has to stand up to believers. However, there may well be some individual municipalities to which the money is not just being channelled. Perhaps we should look at something more direct payout instead of having it during the block grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161304	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161306	There is no point in referring to the fact that under one it goes to zero. I am asking about specific municipalities which have many long-term unemployed, many long-term ills, many people with disabilities and others who are not fit in the local labour market. My question is: why should that municipality be punished? I have not received an answer to that. That's what I'm asking. So one more question: does the rapporteur not think that it is more likely that it will happen as the LO and the FTF warns against, namely that this restructuring of the reimbursement system will push the municipality to make sure that it has as few citizens as possible on transfer income, not by providing jobs for them, because it is not the municipality that creates jobs on the local labour market, but by ensuring that they either receive very low benefits or no benefits at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161400	So let's just remember that for some of these benefits, for example. Under the old scheme, the municipality lost the entire grant after 52 weeks. Then there was no refund to the municipality. Here they still get away 20%, and this 20%. will continue to be there. There's no local authority running out of reimbursement with this new scheme. They'll always get 20%. in reimbursement. It's not like they go to zero. That is what has been proposed. I assume, of course, that the municipalities are making the effort to get people into jobs as they should. I guess so. The government has said that 40 000 new jobs have been created, and I assume that the municipalities will then help to get some people into employment. I know they've gone to Eastern Europeans. That is not the intention, but the Danish People's Party has no part in bringing more people up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161452	Thank you. Before we move on to the next question, I just have to repeat the rules for the sake of good order: that is how the first brief remark is made; the second short comment has 30 seconds to the rapporteur up here. And it is not because some people have violated it so much, it is just to ensure that we all agree that these are the rules. Then we move on to the next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161514	No, but it never hurts to have the rules reviewed. What I want to say is that you can be sick and outside the labour market for many different reasons. It may be an occupational injury, you have suffered a serious occupational injury, you may have suffered a serious traffic accident, you may have suffered a serious illness, which, if I may say so, comes from your body. And we agree that those who have been outside the labour market for a long time are those who are most at risk and most in need of help. I am very nervous that the Danish People's Party is unfortunately contributing to this, I think that some vulnerable people are being left out of this. By this I mean that it is precisely possible in the municipality to provide rehabilitation or early retirement, which is at the level of unemployment benefit, or to provide cash benefits which are significantly lower, and when the municipality then has to pay 80%, whether it is the high or the low amount, I think that the municipalities will choose the low amount to save money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161616	Now Mr. Eigil Andersen to among others. early retirement, and it is also flex jobs that you should have with you rather than going on the low amount. I assume it's cash aid, sir. Eigil Andersen means by the low performance. I just want to remind you that Mr. After all, Eigil Andersen has helped to make the agreement to get people on early retirement and in flexible jobs on resource programmes. There's something that might suggest that sir... Eigil Andersen believes that the rules of that scheme have not been good enough. So, the Danish People's Party has not been involved in making the rules, but Mr. Eigil Andersen. It must be because it is not good enough, therefore, that there are not strict enough rules on how municipalities should deal with people and get them into resource development in order to clarify whether they should have an early retirement pension or in flexible jobs or have to go back to work. That must be the problem, sir. Eigil Andersen is referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161709	Thank you. Sir. Eigil Andersen, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161711	Now I have not personally taken part in that debate because I had sick leave for three months and received radiation therapy, but my party has been involved in it. That's right. Well, what this is all about is that I'm afraid of what I also think I mentioned that people will be held on cash benefits. And that's because there are all these municipal estimates. Here the Danish People's Party then helps to give the municipality a strong economic motive for choosing the lowest benefit, namely cash benefits. I think that's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161744	I would say that the best solution for the municipality is always to help people get into the labour market and get a job. And in the agreement on employment efforts, we had also made an agreement that job centres should help with more direct job placement and help those who could not enter the labour market. There are opportunities to send them out into job rotation, send them out with wage subsidies, send them in rehabilitation to move on, send them out as adult students, help them and give them some courses so that they can move on. I suppose the municipalities will live up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161819	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, so we move on to the next rapporteur in the series of speeches, and that is Mr Beazley. Nadeem Farooq of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414161830	Thank you. For several years, the Radical Left has been calling for a new employment system which places the citizen and the unemployed at the heart of the effort, so that we have a more effective employment system, which also gives greater priority to the unemployed to enter permanent employment and which also cuts through many of the incentive problems that exist in the municipalities. What the Radical Left also wanted in the context of a new employment reform is a system which honours companies' demand for labour. What is happening at the moment in many job centres, in many municipalities, is that many job consultants do a really good job, but the bureaucracy and also these system errors make it possible to know what skills and challenges the job seekers have, but the network is missing for the companies. So the best match is probably based on knowing the citizens as well as the companies and their needs. Before the summer holidays, the government, together with the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives, concluded an agreement on an employment reform. In this context, it was agreed that a reimbursement adjustment should be carried out. After all, it has already been mentioned here today in more detail than I would have done I will not tire Members with more repetitions. This redistribution must support effective employment efforts. What is basically happening with the bill is that we create a simpler and transparent refund system; we get rates that are uniform across benefits and falling over time. In addition, there are a large number of other changes which, together, are moving towards a better and more efficient employment system. We can then discuss whether we should have reduced and improved the employment system in the past. It would have been better in the best of all worlds if it had come more quickly after we had implemented a reform of the benefit system. In any case, however, many of the changes we make in the benefit system and here and now in the employment system are connected. These are changes that are both about incentives for the individual and also incentives for the public authorities. All in all, the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414162131	Thank you to the rapporteur. No colleagues have asked for access to short remarks. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414162147	As we have said in some cases, the proposal gives the municipalities a great economic motive for taking action with great help to bring people back into the labour market in the first few months and up to the first year, in order to avoid long-term unemployment or illness with consequent high costs. The fact that this bill contributes to a great deal of effort at the beginning of people's unemployment or illness period is positive, but, as has been said, there is also a very high risk that the long-term approach to socially vulnerable groups with very complex problems of a physical or mental nature will simply be dropped in many cases, and that people, even more so than today, for already today it is also a problem that will be parked on the benefit they receive because the municipality considers those concerned, unfortunately, to be a hopeless investment. This is something very negative and serious about this bill. I would even say that I find it creepy that there is a great financial incentive for municipalities to give up helping many people on cash benefits or other services simply because the municipality does not think it can get its investment home. In many cases, the municipality will foresee that it will in future pay the 80% of the benefit to the person concerned and will have to pay high costs to help the person concerned without leading to his or her reintegration into the labour market. That is not good and that is why the SF will vote against this change in the reimbursement system. I would add, as I have said a little in the debate, that unfortunately the new system will also involve two more things which will be very negative to the people who will suffer from it, and it is therefore people who already have difficult living conditions. The new system will provide the municipalities with even greater financial incentives to push more people out of the public services completely, so that they become self-supporting, without having an income, that is, without receiving a penny in income. It is good to be self-supporting if it is because you have come into work and have a salary income, but it is a disaster if you get squeezed out of the system, so you end up with 0 kroner. in income. The other thing which the municipalities are also given more incentive to do than today is that, as has been said, more will be chosen to place people on the lowest possible level of service, simply because the municipal self-payment remains at the 80% mentioned, and 80%. of a cash benefit is significantly cheaper for the slumped municipal coffers than 80%. self-payment if you provide rehabilitation or early retirement which is at the level of benefit. All in all, both LO, FTF, Danske Handicaporganisations and the Social Affairs Council also believe that the draft law can mean a worse response to socially vulnerable groups with these complex problems, so it is not a criticism that the SF is left alone, on the contrary. Finally, I would like to look elsewhere, but it is still a question of this group of people for whom we have a great responsibility as a society. I would like to turn my attention to the costs which the municipalities have, alongside the benefits, to help this group, and this is, as I have said, one of the things that has been said. people with very serious mental and physical problems. Today it is the case that, for the costs that are being set in motion to help the recipients of cash benefits, there is 50 per cent. reimbursement by the state to the municipalities when the municipalities embark on some aid projects, and the reimbursement rate is supposed to be maintained according to the government's thoughts. However, the fact is that, with the risk that I have described in some cases here, the municipalities will unfortunately cross their arms in many cases, when the first 52 weeks of the course of the person concerned have passed, it would, after all, be helpful to at least a small amount of help if they did so, to set aside the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the municipality in obtaining aid measures, for example. 80% or 90% instead of the 50, it's today. I mention this as a good opportunity which I believe the conciliation parties can and should use to increase the interest of the municipalities in helping this group. But it is not part of this bill, which SF votes against, because it seems to be a deterioration for very vulnerable groups in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414162639	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414162659	Thank you. The core of this bill is a drastic reduction in the State's reimbursement of local government expenditure on a wide range of labour and social services, including the SU. The model starts very well with a uniform reimbursement rate of 80%. of all benefits. That's close to the 100 percent, as the Enhedslisten believes it should be. However, the rate of reimbursement is falling rapidly and drastically, so that after 52 weeks it lands at 20 per cent. And that means that from then on, the municipalities themselves will pay 80%. of all labour and social benefits in which they are currently required to pay somewhere between 35 and 70%, depending on the benefit in question. However, an exception has been made in relation to the reimbursement of flex jobs, which, as far as I can see, means that the reimbursement of flex jobs is in line with the cash benefits. I may have misunderstood it, but it is at least somewhat at the present level, and that is, of course, excellent. But if you really had to do something to get people into flex jobs and you believe in the financial incentives, you would have to give the municipalities an even better refund on that point. All in all, however, there is a very serious increase in the cost of these services to the municipalities. The government and the conciliation parties then claim that it will have the desired effect, namely that the municipalities are more committed to getting people into work. It must then be based on the assumption that the municipalities do not do so today. It would have been nice to have some evidence of that claim or prejudice or myth. We can't really find that in the bill. It probably does not have much to do with it either, because already today the municipalities have a clear interest in people getting into jobs or education. Every time a person is able to move from public support to ordinary work, it means less spending and higher income for the municipalities. That is already the case today. If this does not happen to a great extent, it is of course because in the vast majority of municipalities there is no labour market that will accept the unemployed, certainly not the long-term unemployed, the long-term ill, people with disabilities and other groups with reduced working capacity. It is not just on Lolland and Langeland that you have that problem. The reversal of the reimbursement will therefore have a completely different effect. It will be a huge economic punishment for the municipalities which have many citizens on this type of transfer income and where the labour market will not be known to people who cannot work 100%. or more. And how will the municipalities react to that? Indeed, the most likely thing is that they will tighten the course even more towards these vulnerable groups than they have already done where else to get the money? So, yes, the municipalities want to get involved, not to get people into jobs that do not exist, but to ensure that there are as few as possible on the relatively expensive benefits such as cash benefits, sickness benefits, early retirement and rehabilitation. Instead, people will be transferred to the lower benefits at the level of cash benefits, such as resource courses, job clearance courses or raw cash benefits, where there is also a set-off for the spouse's income, or no benefit at all will be given, whether these people are able to support themselves or not. It is a development that we are already seeing, so it is not because Enhedslisten and SF paint the hell on the wall, as are the LO, the FTF, the Danish Handicap Federation and the Council of Social Depriveds, who have clearly described these things in the consultation answers. And the LO and FTF write directly and it is, however, a seldom sharp formulation from the edge that one can expect that the change of reimbursement rates will create a strong financial incentive for municipalities to push citizens out of public support. When the pretty people in the LO and the FTF start writing these things, I think you have to sign it behind your ear, because that's probably because it's really serious. After all, the conciliation parties and the government know very well that this is the case. This bill is a long planned part of the overall economic policy, which is also described in the government's constitution, which, in the government's own words, is the economic policy of the government of the VK, which has been endorsed by all the other parties in the Folketing. It is a policy which, as you know, is to give tax reliefs most to those who have the most and to increase the supply of work by whiping even people who cannot work to join the job queue. The government doesn't even have the high expectations of the employment impact of this poor 3,000 jobs. Moreover, it is all magical jobs spat out of a calculator that equates increased labour supply with more in work. It is not a policy that benefits the unemployed and sick people, and one can be sure that, on top of the austerity that the reforms bring, there is a budgetary tyranny towards the municipalities that will ensure that they will be forced to do the dirty work in relation to that group of citizens. Enhedslisten votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163212	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have a single colleague who has asked for access to a brief remark, and that is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163218	I just want to know what the refund should be on if it was on the Enhedslisten. Should it be at 100 percent? Should it be that if a municipality grants cash benefits or early retirement, the state will have to pay it all? And if yes, does the Enhedslisten not even recognise that it is indeed important for the behaviour of the municipalities to bear the cost of the transfer income they allocate to the citizens themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163245-2	It is true that the principle of Enhedslisten's position on this is that the reimbursement for social benefits and benefits should be 100%. These are the services we have decided here in the Folketing. We have left it to the municipalities, confident that they can manage the legislation we have made so that it is done for the good of the citizens. That is what the introduction of all these legislative proposals says, in other words, that it is for the benefit of the citizens. We have confidence in this and, to the extent that we can see that the municipalities are not living up to it, we have an opportunity in here, because it is here in this Chamber that we are making legislation that we can correct if it turns out that the municipalities are not living up to the confidence we are showing them. So that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163333	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163334	So it is Enhedslisten's view that if the reimbursement is 100%, it will not affect the behaviour of the municipalities in the direction that they will then allocate more and more expensive transfer income. If so, how does Enhedslisten explain that today there is a big difference in how municipalities allocate different transfer income? And so is it when we clean up differences in social backgrounds, etc.; there are simply some inexplicable reasons why some municipalities allocate more, for example. early retirement pensions other than other municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163411	Those explanations do not exist in concrete terms in relation to the composition of the citizen in the municipality concerned. All you can say is that from in here, and it is not the Enhedslisten who has helped to make that legislation, legislation has been made which constantly screws the economic buttons so that the municipalities are forced to place the citizens on the lowest possible social benefits. It's a button that gets even more screwed up with this bill. That's the short part of the long one, and that's the interesting part of this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163447	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163501	The bill we are discussing here changes the reimbursements to the municipalities when they allocate different transfer income. The model that is now being adopted is almost identical to the one proposed by the Labour Market Commission in 2009, i.e. for approx. 6 years ago. It says a little about the sluggishness of the political system, that is to say, that politicians are setting up commissions to make recommendations on how to ensure growth, employment and, in general, to resolve some of the problems that are at stake, for example. the labour market, and then it takes quite, quite many years for politicians to act. We find that problematic. We can support the model now, although we would have liked it to be more ambitious. We think it would be appropriate for there to be no reimbursement after one year, and we think so, because it is beyond doubt that the reimbursement affects the behaviour of the municipalities. We think that the important thing in Denmark and perhaps our biggest structural problem is that we have too many people on transfer income in working age compared to other highly developed welfare societies. This is a problem that we need to address, both because it presents us with challenges to our economy and, in the long term, the sustainability of public finances, but most of all because Denmark has a productivity problem, a growth problem. Part of the solution to this is to increase employment. So we welcome initiatives to reduce the number of people on transfer income in Denmark. Having said that, the expected effects of this legislation are not extremely flashy. It is expected that, in isolation, the restructuring of the reimbursement will increase employment by 3 000 people. We don't think that many of us do. The other elements of the employment reform, as I recall, increase employment by 500 people. I think it is quite amusing that an employment reform is being carried out, in which the elements by way of reimbursement increase employment by 500. I guess you can barely call that a reform. That's a little funny. But this is going in the right direction. After all, it will increase employment and it will provide a more uniform refund system across benefits. We think this is sensible, and that is why we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163805	Thank you to the rapporteur. I had sir. Finn Sørensen registered for a brief comment, but then his name went away. Now, sir. Finn Sørensen there again, so we're giving the floor to Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163815	Thank you. All I have to do is ask sir. Joachim B. Olsen, who believes that this reform is increasing employment, what jobs are being created because of tightening the economic grip on the municipalities. Where do these jobs go?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414163835	One of the frustrations of discussing employment with Enhedslisten is that we have to start the discussion from scratch every single time. The unitary list is, after all, one of the only parties which does not recognise what one would call mainstream economic theory, that is, when one increases the supply of labour, employment also increases because there is not a certain number of jobs in an economy. It is amusing to wonder, too, that when you look around the countries and you look at employment in the different countries, it is very similar to how many people are like those who are available for the labour market. After all, it is funny that in the United States, where there are 300 million people, there are about the number of people employed who are, like, available on the labour market. Then there may be economic conditions that cause unemployment to rise and fall, etc., but this is similar to the number of people who provide their labour market. The same is true of Germany and Denmark. So it is the case that if you increase the supply of labour, you also increase employment. And so this bill creates incentives for local authorities to make people more available to the labour market and to provide services where they are available for the labour market. For one of the major problems in Denmark over the last 20 years has been that we have the same number of people on transfer income, and we have not managed to reduce that to any significant extent. But those who are on transfer income have increasingly moved further away from the labour market, and we do not think that is a success; we think that something should be done about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164008	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, for second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164011	Thank you. Now I did not ask the rapporteur to repeat his usual lecture on mainstream economic theory etc. The rapporteur believes that this increases employment, and I would just like to ask: where do these jobs come from? What kind of jobs are created by tightening the economic grip on the municipalities? The rapporteur is not in a position to explain this, but the only thing I understood was that the rapporteur has stuck himself in a myth, a lie that if you just have enough people standing in an unemployment queue, there will also be jobs. It does not surprise me, but I was able to confirm that there is not much more in it, and that is not very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164055	Yes, there is. It is quite well documented across countries and also in Denmark that if you e.g. If labour supply increases by 5%, employment increases by 5%, even by 10%. or by 2%. That is how it is across countries, across all sorts of institutional conditions that are different in each country. If labour supply is increased, employment increases. - Sir, you can. Finn Sørensen doesn't run away no matter how much he tries. He can deny it, but what he's doing is denying reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164127	Thank you. The next person who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164132	Now, sir. Joachim B. Olsen saw a wonderful painting of the United States, but fortunately it is the case that both Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and I have together been to Atlanta, Georgia, with the Parliamentary Labour Market Committee, and there we were told that there are very many people living below the poverty line. They are available for the labour market, but they have no work, and the poverty limit in the United States is about DKr 130,000. a year to a family made up of two adults and two children... ■ quite awful. That is where we asked at one of the events that both of us were at, how long you are in that situation, because that is something terrible. And the answer was that it was typically for three generations... three generations! It is the social heritage that will not then be broken. My question is therefore: does the rapporteur still believe that the United States is a dream society where it can be said that everything is working perfectly, bearing in mind what I have just described here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164235	I can't believe it. We are discussing a bill in which we change the reimbursements in Denmark, and then it becomes a discussion about whether the United States is a dream society. I don't think I said that. I don't think the United States is. I believe that in many ways the United States is a good society. One can of course compare the United States with Denmark in the sense that if Denmark were the fifty-one state in the United States, we would be the tenth poorest state in terms of GDP per head. GDP per capita, in terms of purchasing power adjusted per capita citizen. We didn't want to be a particularly rich state. The Danish population, measured by purchasing power-adjusted GDP, is not particularly prosperous compared to the Americans. Social mobility is high in the United States. Does that mean there are no black holes, there are no problems? No, because there is, but there is also God in Denmark. One of the problems in Denmark is that we have a lot of people on transfer income and we in the Liberal Alliance think that this is a major social problem and that, if they had been citizens of other highly developed welfare societies, had actually been in work. Then the children of those families had grown up and had seen their parents go to work. What we know from Denmark is that the social legacy, when it comes to transfer income, is enormously high. We do not think it is good to be on transfer income in Denmark. It must be a temporary thing, as far as possible. For too many people in Denmark it has become a permanent thing. We think that this should be changed and, to the extent that this bill contributes to it, we welcome it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164402	Sir. Eigil Andersen, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164404	When I brought the United States into the picture, it was because Mr. Joachim B. Olsen brought the United States into the picture and painted a beautiful painting of the fact that when there was a large job offer in the United States, the jobs also came of themselves. I just have to say that they have certainly not come to the thousands of poor families we heard about in Atlanta, Georgia. They're not. But I would like to ask you about the vision of the Liberal Alliance on this subject. Is the vision that the very best thing would be that no one has a transfer income at all and that they should not have it either, even if they are ill or unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164441-2	No, I have to tell you, I didn't do any beautiful painting of anything. What I said, as I said, is that increasing the supply of labour also increases employment. This applies across countries, it applies in the United States, it applies in Germany, it applies in Denmark. That is a rather uncontroversial view. I would very much like to send the rapporteur documentation on it from the OECD and the Ministry of Finance, and I even think that the Ministry of Employment will be able to do so. That's kind of what I said. I wasn't trying to paint a beautiful painting of anything. I think, however, that sometimes there is a tendency to paint a wonderful painting of Denmark, which is a fantastic country, but where there are also problems. I know that there are some parties that want us to have as many people on transfer income as possible. It's not a wish from us. It's a request from the SF. So it is not a wish that we share. We think something should be done about it. This requires some reforms. Here, then, we have a reform of our refund system which helps to bring a little more people closer to the labour market, and we think this is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164547	Good. Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for access to short remarks. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164557	Thank you. On the conservative side, we have one overall objective in the employment effort, and that is that as many as possible get the best possible help to get into employment, be as close to the labour market as possible, hopefully in an entirely ordinary job, but to the extent that it is not possible, then in various other schemes, so as not to be isolated from the labour market. We know that for a great many people it is a huge personal crisis if you cannot get a foothold on the labour market, and that is why it is so important that the efforts that are being made have a very focused focus on helping citizens to get jobs. For example, I get it myself. quite often requests from citizens, with one or the other small defect, which says: I would like to have a job, but I do not really think I have had the help necessary to get that job. That is what we need to make sure with the effort we are making: that always with the reimbursement scheme we have now made as part of the reform here, we hope to be able to contribute a great deal to the effort, and that is what the goal is, and several people have also said that it must not be the reimbursement that determines which service you end up with. Therefore, the rates of reimbursement will now be the same across benefits. We believe in this as a good model, and that, of course, is why we have agreed to this agreement. We believe that this will also have the consequence that the municipalities are thinking about what is right for the citizen, rather than what benefits they get the most money out of. This is important and it is particularly important for the individual citizen. It is also important for our welfare society, which depends on the people who can and will work, also having a job and contributing to our common welfare. Then it is also the case that this agreement provides for an equalisation between the municipalities, so that the municipalities that are expected to have a higher cost with this change are compensated, so it is not a question of undermining the municipalities' finances, but a question of changing the economy and giving the municipalities the money in a different way. It's quite overall good. We have also supported this overall. However, I do not wish to fail to mention here today that the financing that has been made, the model that has been ended up, has by no means been grown in our backyard. We think it could have been much better, and we are actually somewhat disappointed that the conciliation circle has not been prepared to hit anything more precisely in relation to this compensation between the municipalities. My colleague will discuss this in connection with the legislative proposal that is being discussed a little later today on that part. I just thought it was worth mentioning this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164907	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we have been through the party rapporteurs, and that is why we go to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414164920	Thank you. It has been interesting to follow the debate. When we have it, it is because the government and the Left and the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party back in 2014 settled on the employment reform. There was also an agreement that a refund was to be made, and we have made an agreement on this this year, back in February. After all, the current system, which several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, consists of a number of complicated rules. For some, the allowance falls for reimbursement over time, because others do not. Some types of bet give a high refund, and others give a low. It has to be said that today there is a system which may well be incalculable for many parties. With this bill, instead, we are introducing a much simpler and much more transparent system of reimbursement, where rates become the same across services and then also fall over time. I am sure that a rate of reimbursement across services will support the fact that efforts can be made in the municipalities that are aware of the specific situation of the citizens, but also of their needs. In other words, we are creating a system that puts the citizen at the heart of the effort, rather than having a system that exists for the sake of the system. I think that is actually a significant improvement. During the debate here today, several people have raised concerns that with the proposal the municipalities will cut their efforts to those groups that are furthest away from the labour market. I would just like to say in silence that it is, of course, important that, with the employment effort, we do not leave them in the lurch, and that is why the new system of reimbursement gives the municipalities a greater gain than it is today by getting citizens on the outskirts of the labour market in permanent employment. In addition, it is part of the agreement that, together with the other parties behind the reform, we will follow closely developments in the level of activation and the transition to employment, including for vulnerable citizens and groups. Furthermore, it is important to bear in mind that the reimbursement reform does not under any circumstances alter the right of citizens to benefit or to take action. Instead, it is about strengthening the municipalities' incentive to focus on effective efforts and results rather than reimbursement rates. I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place here today. I look forward to the work of the committee and shall make my contribution to the smooth and smooth operation of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165206	Thank you. For the time being, there is a single colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165212	Thank you and thank the Minister for the presentation. There is no one who criticises the uniformity of rates, which I hope the Minister has caught; the criticism is about the size of the rates. So far, so good. It is true that the benefit of getting people into work increases, the lower the reimbursement from the state. It's obvious. Then you can ask such a little polemical perhaps, but still: why hasn't the reimbursement been completely removed, because then it would mean that all the unemployed and all the sick would get to work? It is just as true, I would say to the Minister, that the lower the reimbursement, the greater the penalty also for the municipalities which, for reasons beyond their control, are unable to get people into work because they have many long-term ills, perhaps many people with disabilities for random reasons, and because they do not have a local labour market to accept these people. That's what's the main anchor against this bill. And then I just ask a good Social Democrat, because I assume that the Minister sees himself as such: is it fair to punish these municipalities in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165322	I do, therefore, regard myself as a good social democrat. I would also like to say that I think this is a core proposal for those who are in favour of duties and rights. I think it is a core proposal when it comes to the fact that what we should now be doing is putting the individual at the centre rather than having complicated refund systems. May I say to Mr. Knox? Finn Sørensen: What kind of work does it take? If you had the relentless attitude to it, there was no reason to do what you could to get more people into employment, because then you could just sit back and say that there is probably nothing to do. That is exactly the opposite of what this government has done. Indeed, I am quite comfortable with the fact that we have managed to move a great many people, thousands, from public support to part of the labour market. I am very pleased that more than 42,000 people have been given jobs and that the unemployment figures have been reduced by 30,000 • all the good figures that we have. And this helps to support what I think is absolutely crucial, namely that when you as a citizen get into a situation where you need help, it becomes the right help that the municipalities are aiming to provide from the start. Finally, as far as the answers to the hearings are concerned, I would like to hear that the people you care a lot about, namely the municipalities, are in fact very positive about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165446	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165448	I do not think the Minister is dealing with what I asked him about, namely why it is reasonable to punish municipalities financially for circumstances on which they themselves do not have any influence. But then let me ask in another way, as we are at the hearing answers: does the Minister think that what the LO, FTF, Danske Handicap organisations and the Council for Social Services say is just caught out of the air, that it is malicious revolutionary propaganda, or whatever it may be, when they say that they fear and expect with horror that this bill will lead to the municipalities pushing people far more beyond the edge, into a situation where they have no support whatsoever and where they are not able to support themselves through pay work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165538	Revolutionary I actually don't think any of the organizations are there, and malicious I'm pretty sure none of them are. I just think they have a wrong idea of what the consequences will be of this. I would also like to say, and I think this has also been demonstrated by both the speeches and the answers given by the rapporteurs, who are part of this conciliation, that it is a major upheaval, but it is also important, and it is just as important to support what many of us have been concerned about now for some 31⁄2 years, namely to ensure that those who were outside the labour market can gain a foothold on the labour market again. That is why a number of these reforms have been carried out. And it can be said that we are now putting the finishing touches on the fact that we are also keeping the goodwill with the economic intentions, and I think that is actually a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165635	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for short remarks, and since no one has asked for the floor at all, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165654	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165715	Thank you. This is a relatively small bill, but nevertheless important. The main purpose of this bill is to harmonise the investment rules of the Labour Market Supplementary Pension Act, i.e. ATP, and the Law on the Employees' Animal Time Fund, LD, with amendments for pension companies covered by the Financial Business Act. This is due to the fact that we are faced with implementing the Solvency II Directive. It is a question of the ATP and the LD investing their assets on the basis of a principle to ensure that companies are constantly moving towards the directive and thus the interests of their members will be safeguarded in the best possible way. The supplementary pension for the labour market and the cost-of-living fund for wage-earners must therefore have an adequate understanding of the assets in which they wish to invest and must at all times be aware of the risks they take on investment. This also means that a number of rules are being abolished today in the form of regulations on location and distribution, and that the principle is therefore being followed, as has already been mentioned. This bill also allows ATP and LD to invest in and operate infrastructure similar to other insurance companies and has the same opportunity to invest in subsidiaries. There are some other minor elements in this bill, and I have one comment to make in relation to the Left's view of this bill, namely the gender composition of the Board of Directors of the Employees' Animal Time Fund. We may not think that there is a great need here to change the legislation. After all, we are concerned that the persons who are to sit in the Employees' Animal Time Fund have been chosen on the basis of their qualifications rather than on the basis of their sex. So we would like to take a closer look at precisely that element of the legislative proposal in the legislative process. But otherwise we will be positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414165946	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170003	Thank you, sir. President. This is a proposal to change the possibilities of ATP and LD. It has been discussed in the past whether there could be any reason to expand the investment opportunities of the two funds, like those we know and accept for pension funds. Nor is it possible today, with any sense, to deny that ATP and LD have the same basic purpose as the other pension companies, namely to manage, invest and consolidate the employees' assets with the utmost common sense. In particular, we would have missed out on many sensible initiatives if the pension companies had not put funds into them and thus contributed to the creation of growth, innovation and employment for employees. With the extension of investment rules, we are not creating increased competition for private pension funds, but we are merely expanding the opportunities for the two joint financial institutions to participate on a fairly equal footing. We are facing massive transformations in our welfare societies and we are facing many new investments in jobs in both the private and the public sectors. Of course, this requires investments which, in our opinion, should also be able to come from the funds of the two employees' funds, namely ATP and LD, which must be able to participate on an equal footing with other pension funds, for example. in public-private partnerships in the field of infrastructure. Therefore, the time has long since become ripe for ATP and LD to be allowed into the heat. It then requires some adjustments contained in the current legislative proposal, which intends to implement changes to the legislation on ATP and LD plus a number of minor technical changes elsewhere. The former rapporteur mentioned some of them, and it makes sense to provide for these various things. There is the issue of management and key employees in terms of suitability and integrity. There are also issues of operation, buildings and infrastructure. Then there is the question of not being subject to a registration fee, and there is also the question of not being covered by the public law. Unlike the former rapporteur, we in the Social Democratic Party think it is very good that there is balanced equality between men and women. I do not think it suits the Left at all for a year, when it is 100 years since women were granted the right to vote and to vote, as the only thing in a good legislative proposal to do is to withdraw, because it does not seem that there should be equality and a balanced distribution of men and women on the boards of directors. We therefore believe this to be the case in the Social Democratic Party, which is why I must of course recommend that the proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170242	Thank you. One colleague has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170248	It was just the pretty one. I hope we agree that, as it is today and as the draft law actually says, the provisions of the equality law apply. In other words, a balanced gender balance should be sought to the extent that qualifications are available. So what you're going to do with this bill is, you know, gender comes before qualifications. So I would just like to ask whether the Socialist rapporteur actually believes that gender should be chosen over qualifications and not just to ensure that, to the extent that qualifications are available, gender equality is achieved. Is gender more important than qualifications for the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170334	I regard people as equal, and I actually know a lot of women who have better qualifications and qualifications than men, but that is not what this is all about. What this is all about is that there is a balanced attitude here and that the board consists of a • as stated in the bill • balanced distribution of men and women. So I don't even understand the outcome of the Conservatives against this. It is quite reasonable that when you put together a board of directors and if you have the opportunity to do so, you should of course choose the best ones, and if you can also get a fair distribution, that is fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170410	Mrs Charlotte Dyremose for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170411	I also know many qualified women who sit on boards because they are qualified, and I myself sit in a few. I hope I'm sitting there because I'm qualified, not because I'm a woman. That is why my question is just this: since the equality law already applies, where we should, of course, aim for a balanced distribution of gender, if the qualifications are appropriate, why change it to aim for a gender balance now, before would it not only give the problem that instead of finding the most qualified, we risk finding someone from a particular sex, and is it an advantage?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170446	No, I don't see it as a problem to find enough qualified women for this. It could also be the opposite, that is, that there were problems in finding sufficiently qualified men. I'm quite clear that those who have to make these settings will find out. I think there are a lot of people to take off. I think it is very good that we choose the best, but also that we take this into account for the sake of equality and that we find a balanced way of doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170510	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I'm sorry. May I ask the rapporteur to go back? I just wasn't fast enough to look at my screen. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen has also asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170524	I just got a little confused here at the end. What is important here is that you find the best or that you have what is called equality here, i.e. equal distribution between men and women? For the rapporteur said both things: the important thing is to find the best, and then there came a but. So what is meant here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170545	I think that I said and, but I think that what is important in the legislative proposal is that we ensure that there is equality so that ATP and LD can invest on an equal footing with other companies. It's important. Then there are six points that have been listed, as I believe the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also has. These are all very good points. That is why I made my comments. I am glad that it stands as it stands, and my remarks, in addition to that, were related to the only point on which the rapporteur of the Left had the deletions. I thought that was weird. Why? Therefore, there is nothing wrong with having both the best qualified and also taking into account a gender distribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170626	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170629	But that's the last thing I notice. There's nothing wrong with having the best qualified. Everyone agrees on that. Of course it must be the best qualified. And then there's this thing about taking into account the sex distribution. Does this mean that it should not be the best qualified anyway, because it is important that there is some kind of equal composition in this board of directors in terms of gender? I mean, is that supposed to be the best, period? Or should it be the best, but we also have to have equal numbers of men and women on the board?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170702	It has to be the best men and women.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170705	Thank you. No one else has asked for short comments now. I'm sorry for the confusion. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Bent Bøgsted for Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414170715	Thank you, President. You can sometimes be surprised at what is being said up here, but there are also some who are surprised at what I have sometimes said, so it will probably go straight up. This bill is designed to align ATP and LD with other pension companies so that they can invest in subsidiaries in which they can own and operate real estate, infrastructure and large-scale technical installations, transport facilities and construction facilities. So basically, with the approach to business that ATP and LD have, it is right and proper that they be equal to other pension companies so that they can also make investments around. It's fine. However, the point we were just talking about, with the composition of the board working for the Danish People's Party very strange. It is proposed that organisations indicate in their opinion who they prefer and the Minister for Employment should follow that recommendation unless the board thereby has a gender biased composition. In this case, the Minister for Employment is entitled to appoint others from among the nominees, so that the board can, as far as possible, have a balanced composition of men and women. As I read it, it means that, for example, if there is one. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. It's for me to say that you have to sit there because of your sex. I assume that you sit there because you are qualified to sit on a board of directors, and for the Danish People's Party it does not matter whether it is men or women, if only they are the best qualified. If it is ten women who are best qualified, then the Danish People's Party also thinks it would be great. The fact that we have to have a balanced distribution and we have to take into account the fact that there are an equal number of men and women, unless it is judged not to be okay on a factual basis, seems to me a strange way of writing it, and it would have dressed the Minister if it had been written that it should be the most suitable ones to sit on the board. That is because I agree with the previous questioners, including Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, that it is a little strange for a woman to be told that she should sit on a board just because she is a woman and not because she has the qualifications to do so. Of course they have certain qualifications when they are set, that is true, but nevertheless they should be told that they have been elected because they are the best qualified to do so. That must be what this is about for both men and women. So the Danish People's Party is not so happy about that. But otherwise we really think the bill is okay, but we will continue to work on that point with the composition of the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171040	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Nadeem Farooq, on behalf of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171047	Thank you. This bill, L 184, is a very good legislative proposal which the Radical Left can support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171058	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one had time to ask for brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171108	Thank you. I would like to continue the style of this matter by the radical rapporteur and say that the SF also supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171117	Thank you. Nor did anyone have time to ask for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171129	We can also support the vast majority of elements of this bill. I would like to say to those who have had difficulty in making efforts to achieve more gender equality on the board of the LD that we fully and wholeheartedly support that element of the proposal. But there is one point in this which we do not support. This is the point that ATP and LD should be allowed to be more exempt from the law on public disclosure in the administration than they are in the past. This seems to us simply to be a wrong change and restriction. I have seen it said that this is also the case in the Growth Fund, as is the case in other public funds, of course this is the case per year. definition in private investment companies, but in the public sector there has thus far been an extended possibility in the ATP to gain insight into how to organise investments. Instead of restricting it in ATP and LD on the grounds that it is already in, for example, The growth fund, we think it would be better to go the other way and say that the opportunities that exist today should be extended to the Export Credit Fund, the Growth Fund and Financial Stability. I say it, for example. In relation to the Export Credit Fund, we have tried several times in the Danish Parliament to gain insight into how to organise our investment policy, including the organisation of investment policy in a way that may move jobs out of Denmark. It is one of the things that has been, namely that you have actively helped that things are not produced in Denmark, for example. within the shipping area, but is produced in other countries with the support of the Export Credit Fund. It might be nice there to gain insight into how one has come to organise the policy that one has pursued. And every time we've been met, we can't see that because it's a secret. So I would even say that we have a very big objection to the exact passage in the legislative proposal to limit the scope for scrutiny under the Public Access Act, which has already been watered down, unfortunately. This is another discussion, but we do not think it should be taken out in relation to ATP and LD. We shall be working on this in committee. I do not know what we are going to vote on at the end, but at least that is the point on which we have the greatest objection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171409	Thank you so much. This is a relatively small legislative proposal, which deals with the equalisation of ATP and LD with other pension companies and the possibility of investing in infrastructure, etc. and will be covered by the Solvency II Directive. We can actually agree to this bill if this terrible nonsense with the gender composition of the board is taken out. In other words, it is deeply discriminatory to women that they make laws which say that there must be as many women as men on the board. Women in 2015 do not deserve that. Women are well-educated, skilled and do not deserve to be treated in this way in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are also no brief comments on this part. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171508	I think I choose to take the last words personally and thank you for them. From a conservative point of view, we also broadly agree with this proposal for extended investment opportunities and the framework for investing with common sense. As far as the previous speech is concerned, it is the case that I should like to speak to Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about the gender composition. If I can read this bill correctly, it is the case today that the rules of the Equality Act apply. The rules of the Equality Act say that there should be an equal composition of women and men, and if you look at the notes that are there, for example. in Karnov, it appears that this requires that the persons concerned have the relevant qualifications. What the Minister is proposing instead of now is that this bill says that the Minister for Employment must follow these positions unless that means that the sex composition is distorted. In other words, the Minister must actually deal with the sex composition prior to qualifications, whereas what is stated in the Equality Act, which is quite reasonable, is that if the relevant qualifications are available, the gender composition must be dealt with. I'd also like to say, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It says that, according to the Equality Act, if I and my lawyers have struck it right, then the right thing to do is to do so, I think that a "should" has actually become a "should" on page 13. I hope we can correct that. In addition, however, I would also like to ask the Minister for the reason for this change, precisely because I think it is fair and proper that it says in the equality law that if the qualifications are in order, there is a balanced distribution. That is why I am surprised that the choice here is to say that equality must be in order and then it must be at the expense of qualifications. That is why we also expect to table an amendment to this effect, and I can see that there will be relatively broad support for it. I also hope that the government will give it. I just have to say that as a woman I would be terribly sorry if you looked at the women members of these boards and thought: yes, yes, but you're sitting there just because you're a woman, and probably not because you're so qualified. I just have to say, on behalf of my sex and at least on my own behalf, that I would find it terribly sad to have that label sticked on us. So couldn't we just do it another way? It must be possible. As several speakers have said, there are plenty of qualified both men and women for board positions, so isn't that really going to happen anyway? But I just think it would be really important to send out the signal that, of course, we look at qualifications before we look at gender. I think we owe that to those whose money is invested, so they have some certainty that the people who sit on these boards are actually sitting there because they are qualified to sit there and not just because they have a certain sex. I would very, very much not have my money managed by people who have a certain gender rather than people who have certain qualifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171828	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have been through the party rapporteurs and that is why we have reached the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414171839	Thank you. If I heard the debate correctly, there was a broad consensus that this was actually an okay little and perhaps in some ways technical proposals, and then there was probably a single area that could get some to get a little up in the red field. I shall come back to that. With this bill, we are harmonising the law on the ATP and the Employees' Animal Time Fund with rules applicable to the other pension sector, giving both ATP and LD the same basis for investing as the other sector, for example. will have the same opportunities to invest in buildings and operations and infrastructure, such as public projects such as bridges and roads. To Mr. Frank Aaen, I would say in answer to the question which Mr. Frank Aaen and the fact that in this cooperation there may be a need for the ATP and LD to be fully confidential with their collaborators in these contexts, and therefore, and for this reason alone, we ensure with the bill that ATP and LD are exempted from the law on public disclosure in the administration, and in this way the two organisations become equal to a number of other state funds, as Mr. Frank Aaen so really said too. For me, this is very much about ensuring that the two organisations can manage our money in the most sensible way. I think we all agree on that. Then I'm gonna go to the gender thing. I think it was the Socialist rapporteur who said that it should be the qualified we have, and that does not rule out the fact that there can be a largely equal composition in the case of men and women. The LD Board consists of seven persons. There are currently no rules in the law on sex composition, just as there are in the law on ATP. By introducing the rule of a balanced gender composition on the LD Board, we take into account the same conditions as apply to the ATP, namely that the board consists of democratically elected representatives of the professional organisations. This means that in special cases there may be minor shifts in the balance between men and women, if justified on a case-by-case basis. It is noted that both a man and a woman must continue to be nominated for each post on the Board of Directors and that the Minister for Employment is ultimately entitled to appoint the person who ensures a balanced gender composition. I can then understand from some rapporteurs that it has provided the basis for a little debate here at first reading, and I think that is fine, and I am very prepared to continue a debate on this and any other issues relating to the work of the committee. However, I think that the factual justification that I just read out before is actually a good one along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172122	Thank you, Minister. Two colleagues have asked for access to short remarks so far. The first is sir. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172127	I would just like to say that I am surprised that this provision is included, because, as the comments on the draft law state, it is already possible to reject access to documents today when it comes to business secrets that are of crucial economic importance. That is why we can ask what kind of information it is that should not be disclosed now. I would like to ask that question in the committee's work. What kind of information is it that is not available today? That does not seem to me to be economically justified in any way. So I think it is superfluous, and since we have at least the policy that it was better to extend access to the public in the administration than to restrict it, we are therefore pursuing that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172223	I'm aware of that last one. Mr. Frank Aaen so many times expressed. I guess I answered the points of principle a little more, and I thank Mr. Frank Aaen to ensure that those more concrete things remain through the committee, where we can then take that discussion. I may not be here and now dressed to go into detail about it, but I will be when we get to the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172245	Sir. Frank Aaen, second brief remark? No. The next brief remark comes from Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172252	I would like to start by signing for the Minister's courtesy. I look forward to having a constructive debate on this in committee. I think I heard the Minister say that there were no rules today, but what the proposal's comments say is that the rules of the equality law apply directly today. So I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that this is the case today and that this will then be the starting point for the discussion which I hope we can then have in committee in relation to finding a sensible wording here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172326	That's right. On the LD board, which today consists of seven people, there are no rules for this. It is there in the ATP, which is why we have chosen the wording that we have discussed here and which I read out in my first reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172339	Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172342	But that means that the general rules of the Equality Act apply today. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172352	As I read here, when it comes to LD's board of directors, there are currently no rules in the law on gender composition. Now we are down to a few details where you have to be careful how exactly you are, so I repeat: as I understand it, today, when it comes to the LD's board of directors, there are no rules in relation to it, but we will get that in the way that it is now presented in the draft law here. So that means that, in terms of equality, this is a clear improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172423	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked for the floor at all, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172439	The debate is open. The first one on the platform is Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172456	Thank you. Since Mrs Fatma Øktem, the rapporteur for gender equality in the Left, cannot be present today, I shall explain the position of the Left on this bill. It is intended to translate parts of the agreement on a better au pair scheme concluded by the government on 19 December 2014 with the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten. In concrete terms, this is being proposed, among other things. In the draft law, au pairs must be able to take paid holidays as the holiday is earned; au pairs must be able to participate in unpaid volunteer work; host families must be able to register for a 2-year period; and host families must pay a lump sum of DKK 5,000 to finance part of the state's expenditure on Danish education for au pairs. The other parts of the agreement will be implemented in a decree based on the authorisation provision in force in the Aliens Act. This concerns, among other things: on the proposals to increase the allowance for au pairs, to pay for the entry ticket of au pairs, and to extend the working time schedule. In the Left we think it is an insult to call it the agreement on a better au pair regime. The Left would very much have liked to have helped improve conditions for au pairs, but the draft agreement presented to us by the government was simply not good enough. The agreement waters down the au pair system by making it more expensive for the individual family to have an au pair and by having the prospect of even more bureaucracy as a result of the agreement. Host families are about to pay for language teaching, spending pocket money and travel to Denmark, while an extended working schedule is being introduced. We can also see from the bill that the government is counting on fewer au pairs coming to Denmark, and the Left would have liked the scheme to have been debureaucratized as well. Left is sorry that the government has not been prepared to negotiate with the Left on the scheme. There are several good elements in the agreement that we would very much like to support. This concerns, among other things: on the possibility of participating in unpaid volunteer work, the registration of host families and the possibility for au pairs to take paid holidays as the holiday is earned. It is therefore rather boring that the government has been so, what should be said, stuck in the negotiating situation, and the Left will vote against this bill, as the bill, together with the implementation of the Order, means that each family will pay an extra bill per year in order to have an au pair. There is also a risk that it will be a system for wealthy people. And then you have to remember that the au pair will pay tax on that increase in pocket money, so they will not get the full economic benefit of it. But the host family will pay the full amount. If the goal is to hurt those families who could actually make a lot of it out of this, then the goal of this bill and the announcement has been achieved. There are families in Denmark who will still be able to afford it, but ordinary families, where an au pair is a gain, will have financial difficulties in being able to have an au pair. So in those words, we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172903	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414172910	Thank you. Now I know that the Left has a special relationship with money, and the rapporteur says that in future this arrangement will only be for the wealthy. I assume that the rapporteur is well aware of who is using the scheme today. But it wasn't that much. That is more the question of saying that you want to negotiate and that there are many points on which you agree. I just don't really hear the part about making sure that the au pair girls get some rights... it's an essential part of this because there have been some cases that have caused abuse of the scheme... and I think it would be strange if the Left doesn't want to take care of it. The scheme is about au pair girls coming here, there is a cultural exchange, they can learn Danish etc. and participate in Danish society, and these are core values when we talk about these schemes. There are strangers coming here, and we make demands on all of them. Why won't the Left help to give these au pair girls who come here some rights, but only feel sorry for the rich because they have to pay something more? Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173016	I feel most sorry for the families and the au pair who could come here but cannot come here as a result of this proposal. It is sad that the families who may have a cramped economy now receive an extra bill because they want an au pair as part of the family. They are not the ones who could already afford and can also afford this increase that they are now facing, which is the challenge. The challenge is that the au pair scheme will be limited by this bill, and I find that boring. I fully agree that the report that has been drawn up in this area showed that some things had to be tackled, and that is also why we like the elements that concern it. We just do not like the system becoming more expensive, and this is, in fact, the first step towards making it very bureaucratic, and we do not want to be involved in this either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173116	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173117	I think the rapporteur is right to say that it will not be a family on cash benefits no matter how much the Left claims they have subscribed to this scheme, not at all with the prospect that it will be halved or put down. But what is interesting is the view of the Left, namely that you want more au pairs if they become cheaper. There is nothing at all about rights for the group of citizens who come here to help and to participate in Danish society. There is where I think the balance between rights and duties is non-existent in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173156	Then it might be that I had to repeat my speech, but that does not allow time. There I mentioned elements that we like. This is the thing about au pairs being able to participate in unpaid volunteering. That's fine. That is a very good step, and we welcome that. However, we do not think that this should give rise to making a scheme more expensive for the host family. In fact, we do not believe that there is any evidence and need for this. And that also means, overall, that there are now fewer people who will be host families and that cultural exchanges will be reduced. We regret that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173239	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173252	I was very, very surprised at what the rapporteur of the Left said here: I could hardly believe my own ears. Well, the salary of the au pairs will be raised from DKK 3,250. per month to 4,000 kroner. per month before tax. As far as I can quickly figure out, that is about 30 hours of work a week to about 30 kroner. It's an hour. Is it really the Left's relationship to this salary, which, in my terms and SF's terms, is a gross, gross underpayment? Is it really Left's opinion that about 30 kr. per hour is an appropriate salary for adult people? We must remember that these are particularly Filipino women who come here and who are between the ages of 18 and 30. Is it really Left's opinion that about 30 kr. an hour is an appropriate amount?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173401	Now it's pocket money they get, not pay, because if it was pay, I think, too, sir. Eigil Andersen wanted to find that there was here what to say about a part that you wouldn't like. I mean, this isn't pay. It is pocket money, it is cultural exchange, and we in the Left regret that the system is being restricted and that it is being made more expensive for host families. Because it is not only the increase in pocket money, it is also the extra cost of teaching, for example, and the extra cost of travelling back and forth. So, overall, it will be more expensive for host families to take advantage of the scheme. That is what I have stood here and regretted, and we have continued to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173448	Sir. Eigil Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173450	I have to say, I'm shocked by this. It is said that it is pocket money, but the fact is that it is an illusion that it is pocket money. These are cheap imported labour, mainly from the Philippines, which does a regular job at home of a number of families who are generally very well-paid and rich people who live mainly in North Zealand. You can afford to pay very well, and I have to say that I find it appalling that the Left believes that about 30 kroner. per hour is an appropriate amount. In the SF, we say it's a rough, rough underpayment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173528	But then it is strange that the SF, the Socialist People's Party, is part of that agreement; it is therefore very strange. Because if it's a gross underpayment, you had to tone clean flags and not be greasy into an agreement. We don't think it's good enough. We think this limits the number of people who come here, restricts the possibility of cultural exchange and limits the number of host families who could actually have a really good experience by having an au pair. When the SF thinks this is crazy, I have to say that the fact that the agreement has been supported makes it even more insane. So it is very strange that the SF supports an agreement that is fundamentally opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173616	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173618	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that this is a cultural exchange, so I would like to ask if he is aware of the study that the FOA has carried out on au pairs coming to Denmark. They say 70 percent. say that it is ordinary work, while very few of them say that it is cultural exchange. Is it the majority or the minority that Hans Andersen relies on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173648	I support the report that formed the basis for our negotiations or the lack of the same with the government, the report that formed the basis for the government's action, and in it the conditions for au pairs in Denmark were discovered. And yes, there were things that had to be done better, there were rights that had to be done better, and there is also a proposal for this, and we really do like those elements too. We do not think it should be made more expensive to have an au pair, and we also think that bureaucracy has increased too much, and that is why we do not want to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173724	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173725	I understand, of course, when the rapporteur keeps on talking about that it has to be better. I just don't want it to be better for the au pair girls, so I think it's weird. But the study we are talking about is a survey among Danes asking: What are the au pairs doing in Denmark? And they say it's work, while Hans Andersen says it's cultural exchange. Does he really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173750	I believe that there is an important cultural exchange, and that is what it is all based on, because if that was not the case, then it is, as it is with the Socialist People's Party, and then I do not understand at all that Enhedslisten is part of this agreement. Because if Enhedslisten is of the opinion that this is just cheap labour, then this arrangement should be abolished, and then one should vote against if one stood firm on one's principles in the Enhedslisten. But you haven't done that. Now an agreement has been reached, and that is why I do not understand why it should be rejected and run away from it. We think it should have been better and not have made it more expensive to be a host family, but it is there that the waters divide between the Left and the government. But I can understand from the Enhedslisten that this agreement should be broken again in the way it is, and that one should stand by the fact that it is only cheap labour, which I disagree with in the vertical sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173846	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Left. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414173858	Thank you, President. It has always been social democratic heartblood to ensure fair and fair working conditions in Denmark. This applies both to Danes and to foreigners who come to Denmark to work. Therefore, it is also gratifying that a broad majority in the Folketing supports a new agreement that strengthens au pair-person relationships in Denmark. The Au pair scheme operates as an opportunity for cultural exchanges to increase understanding and tolerance. In addition, the scheme provides families with children in Denmark with a helping hand in a sometimes stressful everyday life. Unfortunately, the use of au pairs in Denmark has moved too far from the original starting point. There have been extreme examples of abuse, but also general problems in ensuring, for example, the right balance between working time and leisure time. With the agreement in this bill and a decree, we are therefore making a fair and necessary modernisation of the rules for au pairs in Denmark. Overall, with L 185, there is a clear framework for the use of au pairs in Denmark. However, I would like to make a few comments on parts of the bill. One element of the agreement is that au pairs must be allowed to take paid holidays during their stay. That's really good. For stays that are often as short-term as au pair stays often are, it does not make sense that the person should wait a year before there is earned holiday that can be settled. Au pairs must have the opportunity to experience the country while they're here. This must, of course, be seen in the context of the intention that the scheme is also based on cultural exchanges. It is important that you also experience Denmark as something other than just your host home, and it also creates a more reasonable balance between work and leisure time. Moreover, it is positive that the draft law here creates greater transparency in the legislation on foreigners. This gives the au pair a better opportunity to know the basis of his residence permit. It is in fact the case that an au pair stay is considered to be incompatible with the establishment of a family of its own. Therefore, pregnancy during the stay will lead to the loss of the au pair's residence permit. It is a fine principle, and the au pair person can adjust accordingly. With the implementation of this bill, it will be better able to cope with this in the future. Precisely the consequences of pregnancy during the stay of au pairs have been very controversial. For the Social Democratic Party, it is important that both the host family and the au pair have some fair and clear rules to deal with. That is why it is an excellent solution for us to increase the level of information, as I said, while at the same time extending the notice of termination. Thus, according to the proposal for a directive, a repatriation will only take place one month later and not already after 14 days, as was the case in the past. This gives the au pair a little more time to adjust to the new situation and get ready for departure. One final point in the draft law, which I would like to touch on, is the compulsory payment for Danish education. If we are to try to get back to the original idea of the au pair scheme, Danish teaching is absolutely central. In fact, exchangeable cultural exchanges also involve getting acquainted with the language of the country in question. That is why I welcome the fact that the host families now have to pay 5,000 kroner. in Danish for the benefit of their au pair. This applies regardless of whether the au pair person makes use of the course or not. With this requirement, we hope that several host families will take responsibility for ensuring that their au pair is going to Danish education. All in all, this bill is a very good step towards better conditions for au pairs in Denmark. With the implementation of the bill, a better balance will be created between work and leisure time, just as was the main intention of the scheme. This is supplemented by a notice which also follows the agreement and, inter alia: ensures a higher allowance, a requirement for written termination and a requirement for more days off for au pair persons. By protecting this group better, we maintain a good system that many enjoy, but we do so in a way that we can be familiar both to the host families and to the au pairs, and that is why we in the Social Democrats can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414174312	Thank you to Bjarne Laustsen. There is a brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414174317	The reason we support this bill in the SF is partly because the salary of au pairs is raised. It has so far been DKK 3,250. per month, and now it's 4,000 kroner. per month, i.e. 750 kroner. extra. It is a step forward, and in the SF we have the fact that we are Socialist votes working and, of course, we are voting for progress and could not dream of voting against, even if it is a minor step forward. I will discuss this in more detail in my rapporteur's speech. What amazes me amazingly in this matter is that the Left, as one of its arguments for voting against, is against raising the salary from DKK 3,250. per month to 4,000 kroner. per month. And then I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur how the Socialist rapporteur feels about the fact that the Left is voting against such a modest increase in wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414174415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414174417	Thank you. I've almost said that. I'm speechless. In these days, we see one campaign after another that immigration must be restricted and that strangers should preferably stay away, and all of this on the Left side cannot be bad enough. Here we are told that as many people as possible can come here, as long as the conditions for the au pair girls are as poor as possible. It is simply a very, very strange structure that has been devised there. I am happy to be opposed to our draft legislation here, but I think we should have found a different reason, because I think the justification we have is very much sought. We have ensured here, even if we are not in the big amounts, that they are the ones who really want to have an au pair and give something in return for them getting a compensation from an au pair that will make use of the scheme so that those who just want to abuse cheap labour are lured away. This is the balance we want to find in this so that it will be a good experience for all parties. And then it is also a system that we can defend, because that is what is meant by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414174522	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414174530	Hello, thank you for the floor. Well, I might as well tell you right away that the Danish People's Party supports the bill. We think that there are a number of good elements in the agreement that we have made with the other parties that are included in the agreement. We think it is quite reasonable that there should be a register, so that if, as a family, you do not comply with the rules, you do not comply with the obligations that you have towards the person who has come to Denmark, you can enter a register and then you get a quarantine. There is, of course, an opportunity to complain about it, and if you want to do so, you have to pay what it costs to complain. We think that is quite reasonable. We also think that since it is said that the scheme is about cultural exchange, it makes very good sense that there is an opportunity to participate in voluntary work in the association life in Denmark. In other words, it makes very good sense, as the system says, that it is about cultural exchange. Then we also think that, as it is today, it is basically unfair that those who do not have an au pair should pay for those who want to avail themselves of the scheme. I think that if it is the case that we want to bring an au pair to the country in accordance with the provisions now in force, then it is also reasonable that we should be more involved in financing the costs associated with it. And there we think it is good and sensible that some user fees should be introduced, so that the language teaching, the Danish education in which you participate as an au pair, is paid more by the host family than by all those who do not have an au pair and do not avail themselves of the scheme. From a reasonable point of view, we think that is the right direction to take. Then we also think it is good that it is now written clearly into the legislation that a residence permit for an au pair will be conditional on the foreigner not expecting a child at the time of application and that the alien has not established a family, because we do not think this is compatible with the scheme. If the bill is passed we hope that the Danish People's Party will adopt it, then in the long run it will save the public a number of expenses. It is estimated that once fully implemented it will be just over 8 million. kr. Every year in the future, which the public sector will save, and it is expected that the number of people who receive a residence permit under the scheme will fall by about 200 per year. So, overall, the Danish People's Party can support the bill, and we think it is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414174757	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Nadeem Farooq. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414174827	In the Radical Left, we are pleased that we have reached an agreement in which we have given the au pair scheme a review. That is the agreement we are implementing with this bill. The Radical Left believes that the conditions for au pairs in Denmark with this proposal are strengthened and we have improved a number of things. That is why, overall, we welcome the proposal. For example, au pairs are given the opportunity to take paid holidays as they earn it, and they must have the opportunity to take part in voluntary work. Similarly, the proposal seeks to ensure that host families pay a lump sum for Danish education for the au pairs, as well as in various areas to ensure that the rights of the au pairs are respected and enforced. This is why we are extending the current registration so that the host families who, for example, do not pay for the arrival or return of au pair or who do not sign the required insurance will be registered for two years. The bill also contains an extended timetable for the au pairs; it stresses that au pairs have the right to have time off on Danish public holidays and that they get an extra half day off. In addition, the allowance is increased and we require written termination and included allowance during the period of notice. Finally, we are extending the information effort so that both the au pairs and the host families are aware of their rights. Radical Left can support the bill as a whole. Thank you for the floor. Then I would say that I think it is called the registration of the vessel. I just tripped over that a little bit. But overall, I think that this bill is moving in the right direction, and we can support it in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175030	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175047	The agreement on au pair gives au pairs more and better rights, and that is very good. Au pairs get a raise from the current DKK 3,250. per month to 4,000 kroner. per month. And, as I mentioned in my previous speech, the SF is a party with Socialist votes working, and we will, of course, always support progress, and progress is being made here because wages are being increased by DKK 750. per month. Another aspect of the matter is that we in the SF would have liked to have had an even larger salary increase. We have proposed DKK 6,500. per month. We think this would be more reasonable and we will continue to work for it in the political debate, which will of course continue in the coming years too. In future, as mentioned above, you will also have a number of more days off. Up to now, only one day off has been spent per year. week, but from now on you get 11⁄2 days off per week. week. And as the radical rapporteur also mentioned, so far there has been no right to take time off on the so-called crooked holidays, i.e. Thursdays, Fridays, great prayers, etc., but in future these days will also be days off for au pairs. As something new, you also need to have a schedule of the location of working hours. It should then help to prevent one simply from being costd round the clock by the family with whom one is living. The Au pair gets a longer notice if the family wants to terminate the au pair. It will be increased from 2 weeks to 1 month. And, as has been said, in future the host family will have to pay the plane ticket both from the Philippines to Denmark and back home. So far, only one way has been paid. There are also things that we are unhappy about have not been corrected in this agreement. SF is not satisfied that au pairs can continue to be fired on the grounds that they are pregnant, as the absolutely only place on the Danish labour market. On the contrary, in the labour market in general, if a pregnant worker is dismissed, the employer must prove that the dismissal was not due to pregnancy, i.e. the reversal of the burden of proof. It is the strongest legal form of protection that can be given to an employee against dismissal when it comes to the cause of the firing. But for au pairs, it's creepy enough to be the opposite. Here, society gives the go-ahead that the family has the right to fire an au pair that gets pregnant. This is absurd, unfair and unfair. SF believes that such dismissals due to pregnancy are unreasonable, and that is why we will continue our work on this point in order to change the rules in the future. It should be said, however, that pregnant au pair girls who are terminated will in future receive a longer period of notice, and if they have given birth, they will have the right to stay in Denmark for 2 months, when the municipality will help them with income and housing, and then mother and child will go home to the Philippines. After all, there is little progress here. As we mentioned earlier in the debate, the concept of the au pair states that it is cultural exchange and that that is what the system is all about. It is not in the SF's view. Our assessment is that it is cheap labour, which provides a real job and is also employed by very wealthy families, not least in North Zealand. It shows the studies that have been carried out. And if you look at an au pair, you have to say that au pairs have a contract with a notice period, they have a schedule of their working hours, they are entitled to holidays, they are entitled to holiday money and they are entitled to holidays. This is all a characteristic of an employee, and that is what an au pair is in practice. In the SF we are pleased with the slightly higher salary, the right to more days off, longer notice periods, a better working schedule, the payment of the plane ticket both ways • it is all good progress. But au pairs are still far too cheap to work, and the SF therefore continues to work for the au pairs to have a significantly higher salary and, as mentioned above, not to be sacked due to pregnancy. Then I would like to mention, at the very end, the detail about what legislation applies if you are subjected to sexual harassment as an au pair. It has been shown here that neither the equal treatment law nor the equality law apply, regrettably. That means that the only thing you're protected by is the penal code. This is a rather cumbersome procedure, and I would urge that we look in the near future at whether it would not be possible, however, to have one of the equal treatment laws or the equality law applicable to au pairs as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175542	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175546	Thank you. I just have a couple of questions to clarify. The rapporteur says that the au pairs are doing the right job, and that is absolutely correct. The rapporteur also says that there are some au pairs in Northern Zealand, and that is also true, and the rapporteur is linking these things to this with cultural exchange. Should I understand that there is a contradiction between having some cultural experiences and having a real job to do? And with regard to this thing about being in North Zealand: Is it the case that if you are staying in North Zealand, you are not able to have cultural experiences?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175633	Well, you certainly have the opportunity to have cultural experiences in North Zealand, there is no doubt that there are many historical monuments and art exhibitions and all sorts of things. But so, the principle of this is what is the main motivation for Danish families hiring au pairs. If we look at whether this happens because they want to take them to Luisiana and show them paintings, or because the family needs to have a regular job done, it will be quite obvious that this is the last thing it is about, and that is why it should decide how high the salary should be. Then it is that we in the SF work for them to get a higher salary. But, as I said, we are also pleased that this bill will raise our salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175723	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175726	Now perhaps the rapporteur already knows the origin of the au pair scheme and also knows that when it was created it was precisely a double-sided motivation, namely that there were some families who really needed help in the home and that there were some young people who could not afford to travel, and that is actually still the case. What is the rapporteur's position? This is a real task and some families who have a real need. So, in Denmark, the Danish families are some of those who work most in the OECD as a whole; they also carry around the world's highest tax burden. So there is a real need here. How is it that the system devalues the fact that some families have a real need and some young people who cannot afford to travel just as they did when the scheme started?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175817	Now there are things that have a historical origin and have worked in one way at the beginning, but which develop in another way. I do not agree that cultural exchanges are at the heart today, because that is what I have been talking about. When it comes to work, it must also be paid properly and, as I said, we are pleased that the salary will be increased from DKK 3,250. 4,000 kroner, but in SF we think it should be even higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175847	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. Then it's mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414175902	I would like to start by saying that this is a good proposal which gives au pairs some improvements. Following on from that, I would also like to say that it has taken far too long, not least when it only means so little improvement. I have looked back a little and can inform you that the current case started on 9 December 2012 when I got the then Minister for Employment to promise that she would look at the case and the law on au pairs. It has taken two and a half years for us to face this change of law, and I think it is too slow, not least for the sake of the au pairs concerned. As a starting point, I would like to address some facts. Over the past many years, we have had cheap labour in the form of au pairs, primarily from the Philippines about 80%. They come to work with the rich families in Denmark. When you look at where the families live, it beats you that most people live in Gentofte, Rudersdal, Hørsholm and Lyngby-Taarbæk municipalities. I would like to note that these are extremely wealthy municipalities. When you look at this, you can see that it is people who come here for work. This is underlined by a study carried out by the FOA, which shows that 70 per cent. of the Danes say that it is a matter of work and not cultural exchange. That is why my starting point is that those who come here as au pairs should be treated as ordinary domestic workers. That's why I'm in favour of people getting paid instead of pocket money. In fact, I believe that it is really a bad form of child rearing that a host family can, as a starting point, say to their children that those who come and help them do not really get paid. Unfortunately, however, I do know that a large majority in this Parliament is in favour of the Filipinos, who look after children and homes for the rich in Gentofte as an au pair, not being paid. Against this background, we have made an agreement with the government to improve the conditions for au pairs here in Denmark. I think it is a good agreement that gives them better rights. It is about more days off, better vacation security; it gives them more rights to find a new host family if their contract is broken; and it is provided that the host family will pay them pocket money, even if the au pair moves from the family during that period. In addition, they get a little more money for their efforts. The pocket money goes up to 4,000 kroner. a month we had asked for it to be DKK 5,500. In addition, the host families must also contribute to the payment of DKK 5,000 for Danish education. It doesn't give the au pair any more money, but I think it's okay that host families should be involved in funding language teaching. Then there is the question of pregnant au pairs. After all, we have seen examples of some who have become pregnant in this country being expelled from one day to the next. I think it is a good element of the agreement that people are given the necessary advice, both socially, healthly and in relation to paternity, and that women who have given birth will have the opportunity to have the right to stay in this country 2 months after birth. All in all, there are a number of improvements. Some of them are bigger than others, but in any case there are improvements for those who come to the country to work as au pairs, so of course I will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180236	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180240	The rapporteur is concerned about the framework conditions for au pairs. So are we in the Liberal Alliance. But we do have a little different ideas about these things. The leader of Enhedslisten, Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, said on an earlier occasion that Enhedslisten wants to abolish the au pair scheme, so what does Enhedslisten really mean? Should we abolish the system or should it be improved?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180309	Whatever the case, I think we have an au pair system that exists. As soon as improvements are made, we shall vote in favour. I think we have made a lot of improvements, not least when it comes to the rights of au pairs here in Denmark. It's the only way we can work on something like au pairs. Whether it is to last or not, I think it is an improvement that we now have a better system than the old one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180335	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180340	The rapporteur says that it would be better if the au pairs were here on ordinary terms. We have always been open to this in the Liberal Alliance. That would then mean that we completely scrapped the au pair scheme and the cultural commitments and all these things. It would then be an ordinary working relationship in which an agreement was reached on ordinary terms. We are open to that. Are you also in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180410	I think we should keep the au pair girls. As a starting point, they just have to be the same as people who have housework. As a starting point, of course, you have to make an agreement for them, so that you can make an agreement for them and so on. And so on, so that in reality it is said that yes, I think people who come here to help should also have a general collective wage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180437	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. And I would just like to point out that we are not using direct speech in this Chamber, and I am also speaking directly. The rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Merete Riisager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414180450	Thank you. The debate we have had on au pairs here in the Folketing and of course also in the media has perhaps been one of the most surrealist experiences I have seen in my time as a member of parliament for just over three years now. There have been absolutely monstrous claims about au pairs and au pairs without any anchoring in reality, and without having made the trouble of talking to them as it is all about, or investigating the facts. An image of au pairs has been created as some poor people who come to Denmark without goals and with, drifting with the wind, and au pairs as some evil exploiters who exploit some poor people from a third world country. Reality is somewhat more nuanced than that. Let me give an example of some of these claims: Mette Reissmann of the Social Democratic Party has in a blog post in Berlingske compared au pairs with prostitutes. She claimed that she had a personal knowledge of women who had been forced into prostitution in an au pair family, however, without Mette Reissmann ever making a review. We were very puzzled about that in the Liberal Alliance. If you are aware that someone is being forced to prostitute, then of course you have a duty to report it. If it has not taken place, it is a lie, and in both cases we think it is deeply problematic that a member of the Folketing behaves in this way. It is therefore the case that when you make such claims without wishing to substantiate them or report them, you stamp both au pairs and au pairs on a strange basis. Another example of stamping au pairs and au pairs came from Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from Enhedslisten, who referred to au pairs as domestics, i.e. some who have no rights, some who are not able to change their own situation. And again, you just have to say that reality looks somewhat different. Au pairs are generally adult people, of which a large proportion of those coming to Denmark come from the Philippines. Their purpose in coming is for many to have experiences, to travel and to improve their own lives by making money. There's nothing covered in that. On the other hand, families need care for their children and help at home. As I mentioned earlier, Danish families are some of those who, overall, work most hours. And those who go to work also support 700,000 adult Danes who are outside the labour market, and they have seen one of the highest tax pressure in the world. When both Mom and Dad work, it can be difficult to make everything work together, and there comes an au pair as sent from heaven. This means that it is often, of course not always, a relationship in which there is some gratitude involved. And in Denmark it is not very attractive for Danish young people to work in the house, among others. because of our tax system. This deal adjusts to the framework that was already there. It has been interpreted as if there was no framework before this agreement, and that is, of course, completely wrong. Already before this agreement there were both contract, rules, insurance and obligations in relation to introducing to culture etc. Nevertheless, I expect this debate to come back. Should we give it a year or two? Then someone says that we must have proper frameworks and conditions for au pairs, as if there were none at all. The Enhedslisten and the SF have made it clear that they would like to see the scheme abolished, and that is all you have to ask: for whose sake? There are some young people here who are given the opportunity to travel out into the world and have some experiences that they could not otherwise afford. In the Liberal Alliance, we want to improve the framework for au pairs. We would like to set it up as it is in Norway, so au pairs, who have worked for 2 years in Denmark, have learned Danish and understand Danish conditions, can get a temporary residence permit and work in Denmark. We are dealing here with very hard-working people who, for many, will be a gain for Denmark. On the other hand, we are very much opposed to the inclusion in this agreement of conditions whereby a certain proportion of the tax on the salary or money paid to the au pairs will now also have to be paid. We think that is petty. So it is said that the amount given as pocket money must now be taxed. So you can't decide what kind of arrangement it is. Is it a relationship where you have obligations but live in a family, or is it a work relationship? So we're just asking that you decide what this is for a scheme and that you behave to the people who come to Denmark and help Danish families.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181011	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are three inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181017	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that we have no idea who we are talking about. Look up there! So I'll talk to them. I know what they're in trouble and when they're okay. There are some who feel excellent, but we must, of course, grant rights to everyone so that they do not have to work more than the 30 hours and so that they have no doubt as to whether they are at work or not. That's what they're having as problems. That is why we are making sure that they get some rights, unlike in the past, where you didn't know it. Then they could be fired, and if they were fired, it was the same as sending them home to their homeland. So I think the rapporteur should try to listen to what we are talking about, because I know I just think that they should really be given rights so that they can actually work in this country as a starting point, and then we can discuss whether it should be wage work or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181123	It is interesting, then, that Enhedslisten wants to discuss whether it should be wage work or not, i.e. that one really opens up for young people, for example. from the Philippines, can come to Denmark and work full time. This is among other things. What I hear from many of the au pairs I speak to. They say: Why should we not be allowed to work full time? Why can't we negotiate this ourselves? Why can we not be allowed to work in several places? We'd like to work. We have come here to help ourselves, to help our families and, of course, also to have a youth life where we are active and so on, but why must we not work full-time? That is also a right. So it is fine that the rapporteur is preoccupied with it, but it sounds quite frankly more to me as if Enhedslisten is more concerned with winding up the scheme than developing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181212	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181213	I think it's weird. Now we have made an agreement with the government and SF and the Danish People's Party to give these rights to the au pair girls who work in this country. Is it better, or is it worse? I think it is clearly better than what has been so far. We're talking about a bill. There must be 90 in favour of it. So regardless of what the Liberal Alliance thinks about this, I think that we should take a position on that bill: is it better, or is it worse, for the au pair girls who come to the country and work for rich families in North Zealand?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181252-2	I mean, all that Nordsjælland stuff is kind of like it's gotta be branded, like it's some bad people sitting in North Zealand. I can't even take part on that level. That's just how it is There was a clear ceiling on how many hours you had to work. But it is clear that when you move together in a house, coming from different ends of the world, cultural misunderstandings can occur. I have not heard that the Enhedslisten rapporteur has been particularly concerned about this. We in the Liberal Alliance have proposed that an amount should be paid, for example. to the Philippine association Babaylan, so that they could conduct a better dialogue with and better information for both au pairs and au pairs, so that some of these misunderstandings could be avoided. I haven't heard Enhedslisten be busy with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181349	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181352	Thank you. I understand that with the approach of the Liberal Alliance to labour market policy and foreign policy, this is also seen here as a labour reserve. I can understand that from the point of view of the Liberal Alliance. I do not think it would be particularly sensible to look at it in this way. But I would like to ask: why does the Liberal Alliance really think that it is right for families who do not use the au pair scheme to help pay to those who make use of the scheme? Why does the Liberal Alliance think this is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181427	Well, we don't think you should pay taxes on the first DKK 7,000 you make, and we don't think au pairs should either. We think it is reasonable that one should only pay taxes when one reaches a certain level of income. But I would like to say that this is the area where the Liberal Alliance completely disagrees with the Danish People's Party, because we are talking about a group that is hard-working, which is not against Denmark and which has a lower crime rate than indigenous Danes, and the Danish People's Party wants fewer au pairs. So we have a lot of disagreements here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181507	Sir. Martin Henriksen for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181509	That is true, but it is because the Liberal Alliance sees the whole world as one major labour market and believes that the whole world should, in principle, have access to the Danish labour market, and there we disagree. If it were to be implemented, it would mean a massive immigration to Denmark, and we do not want that from the Danish People's Party. So that's where we disagree. But Mrs Merete Riisager did not answer my question. My question was: why does the Liberal Alliance think it reasonable that families who do not have an au pair and do not use the au pair scheme should pay to the families who use the au pair scheme? That's the way it is today, and that's what we're gonna do with this bill. So why is it reasonable that those who cannot afford it should pay to those who can afford it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181551-2	No, you don't actually do that. Third Vice-President No direct indictment may be used. ) Okay. The rapporteur and the parties are not going to end this. And that is why we in the Liberal Alliance are saying that if we want to completely change this whole system, which is quite old and quite well functioning, and also the cultural obligations inherent in this system, then we can do it by making controlled immigration from countries where there are young people who want to travel and, for example, those who want to travel. work in the house, but even negotiate wages and find out for yourself how many hours you want to work and then do it on ordinary terms. So it gives, I would say, a somewhat less protection to the people who come here because they live in a family where they are part of the family today. This gives some other framework conditions which are quite attractive. Let us discuss it, but it is just something quite different from what the Danish People's Party has proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181649	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181651	I have serious doubts as to whether the rapporteur has actually read the report that came from the SFI in 2013. That study says that when you ask the host families, they say that they want au pairs because they want to work, and in many cases the alternative is that one of the parents in the family should go down in working hours. When you ask the au pair girls why they come here, they answer that they come to make money; they come to get a job; there is unemployment in the Philippines. In the light of these two considerations, neither of them speaks of cultural exchanges, I would like to emphasise that in the SF we do not have any view that the scheme should be abolished, but we want better rights. I must say that I am astonished if it is the case that the Liberal Alliance is opposed to a rise in wages from DKK 3,200. for 4,000 kroner. For the Liberal Alliance, the principle is that the more underpaid, the better, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181754	I have to say that it is quite tiresome when we have to repeat the same things many times when we have a debate in this Chamber. It just doesn't make any sense. I have explained quite openly that we in the Liberal Alliance have been completely open to this increase in wages, but that we do not believe that au pairs should pay taxes. We simply do not think this makes any sense at all in relation to the level of pay we are talking about here. We need to have a debate where we just listen to each other to some extent. Then it makes sense. Then we can have a political exchange of views.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181832	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181834	I certainly agree with that. I had caught it with the tax payment, but not the issue of the salary. So I now see it as a yes to the increase in wages. That's the way it must be understood. As far as tax payments are concerned, it is a very questionable principle when, moreover, we have a principle that all income in Denmark will be taxed if we then suddenly start to define that groups x, y and z can well avoid paying taxes. So I cannot agree with the Liberal Alliance's policy on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181906	It is fair enough that you disagree with that. I just think that when you talk about something that is something different from the ordinary labour market, because you have made an exception here, a model that is different from the labour market and where you give pocket money, it simply does not make sense to tax those pocket money as well. Let me just say something about this motivation thing, which the Left often grabs. The rapporteur also just said that it was so disguised that young people are taking from the Philippines because they have a motivation about money resources. I find this incredibly condescending to the young people who are in a difficult situation, who cannot afford to travel and who do not have these opportunities. They make use of them, and I think that is quite a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181951	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414181954	Thank you. I understood from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager, that we have a quite excellent arrangement and there is no need to change it. There is no abuse, and that is why it is superfluous when we talk about tightening up. We talk about it as if there are no rules, and there are already rules. That is one point. Does the rapporteur not agree that there has been abuse, that there is reason to tighten up, that there must be orderly conditions, so that rights and duties are respected? Then it is said that they should be allowed to work alongside if it is to fulfil the original purpose. Otherwise, you can just hire people on equal terms to work at home. Isn't that how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182035	I mean, you have to decide what this arrangement is gonna be like. The agreement that lies here is a strange place in between, which is also marked by the fact that some of the parties that have negotiated it simply want the system to be abolished. In relation to the abuse situation, I would say that when some people abuse a scheme, they have to take it down hard. The Liberal Alliance has proposed imposing tougher sanctions on families who abuse the scheme so that they can never get an au pair again. We have proposed tightening the sanctions. We have also proposed examining the allegations that have been made about sexual abuse, because if there really is sexual abuse, it has to be tackled hard again. The conciliation parties have rejected this. We have also suggested that an amount be given to the Babaylan-Denmark association, since many of the au pairs who come are Filipinos, so that Babaylan-Denmark could provide better advice. All these things we have proposed and they have been rejected, so it simply does not make sense to say that the Liberal Alliance is not concerned with possible abuses.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182136	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182139	But now a concrete agreement has been made that significantly improves conditions for au pair girls in Denmark in a wide range of different areas, including: Danish education, termination rules and various other matters, as it is also clearly described both in the agreement and in this bill. It is quite clear that you will have better conditions. Then the allowance is also increased, and you get the opportunity to come to Denmark, get to be in a home, get to learn the language, get to have the experiences that come with it. It is just 30 hours, so you can also experience our fantastic country. That is what the whole scheme is about. It's a middle point between being an intern and perhaps having a regular job. It is a special scheme focusing on the fact that there may be many families with children who would like to be in such a situation. Why is it that it can't work with the new rules we're doing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182233	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182234	There are, of course, some of the points in the agreement that the Liberal Alliance could easily have negotiated. Now there was just no real debate, and the points I have mentioned here, which are quite many now, were not taken into account. In other words, some of the real problems that exist have not been addressed. Some more forms have been made to be completed, that is correct. But I have to say that I doubt that it is the schedules that solve the challenges that can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182303	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as rapporteur for Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182313	Quite frankly, from the conservative side, we would have very much liked to have been involved in an agreement on a better au pair scheme, which is otherwise so beautifully the heading of this bill. The thing is, first of all, we weren't really called in to negotiate anything. We got a piece of paper out that we could say yes or no to. Secondly, when we saw that piece of paper, we saw that it was not a better au pair scheme. It was a strange jumble of something in which one clearly could not agree in the contract circle on how the au pair scheme should really be forward-looking. I have to say that the SF's rapporteur's contribution may in fact be the best illustration of why we cannot support this scheme. Now it is changing into a kind of cheap labour rather than a real au pair scheme. It has not been fully taken and has been said that there must be general pay and working conditions. The emphasis has still been placed on cultural exchanges, but we are talking about SF and SF did so very precisely: wage increases and total wages, etc. In our view, it would have been important if we had been given the opportunity to create a better au par system, not a working system. On the one hand, when you say that there must be more focus on Danish education and the payment of the entry ticket, which leads to the creation of a better au pair system, and at the same time say that there must be more work-like conditions, that there must be tax payments, that it must be dictated in terms of the labour market, that when there is a free time, you want it to be waged and that it must be a working relationship. Normally when you work, you do not get paid your transport, nor do you get all kinds of courses next door. So this arrangement, this new deal, it's going to fall completely between two chairs. To be honest, we think that this is a sin and a shame and to such an extent that it is an agreement between parties that wants to remove the au pair regime. It's a shame. It's a shame and shame for the girls who want to go to the scheme. It's a shame and shame for the families who want an au pair. It is true that, in the future, you will be able to have an au pair, at least if you can afford it, and there are others here who have talked about it being such an exclusive arrangement only for the particularly rich. At least it will be. In particular, I have to say, I get the impression when you just introduce an increase in the allowance and ask the au pair girls to pay taxes, because then it will be more expensive for the au pair families, without the au pair girls getting the full benefit of the cost the families have. So you just make sure it gets more expensive than what the girls are usually enjoying. We find that sin and shame. In principle, we think it is quite wrong to make tax payments on what should be pocket money next to board and lodging. So we are really sorry that it has ended up there, especially as the previous rapporteur did, because there are some very good elements in this agreement which could have just helped to strengthen the system, which we could actually support and which we would have liked to have reached an agreement on. This concerns, among other things: about this volunteering and other issues that really help to make it better for the girls. But this scheme seems to be, overall, as if it was just a matter of making it as expensive and as difficult as possible, as few as possible should have au pair in the future. As was said earlier, for whom is this a joy? We think it's really too bad. We wish there had been a real debate. We would have liked to have been able to take part in some of the measures that are really making the scheme better rather than just creating a slightly special majority in here consisting of those parties that basically do not like the system. Against this background, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182734	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182738	Thank you. I understand from Mrs Charlotte Dyremose of the Conservative People's Party that it is a huge problem for the few Conservative core voters who are left in the Ghentofte and nearest region that better conditions are being introduced for some girls who come here. It's been said that it's pocket money. Now Mrs Charlotte Dyremose says that there are some improvements in that. Why is it that the Conservative People's Party cannot support them, so if you think it is fair that those who come here and work in a home, look after children, do a large number of other things, get a fair payment for it? Is the problem that fewer people come here or that the au pair girls get better terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182826	We think it is a problem if there are fewer people who come here, we think it is a problem if there are fewer families who have the opportunity to have an au pair. We would have liked to have helped with the withdrawal of the allowance, but we think it is quite wrong in principle to pay tax on it, because that is to make it an income for work instead of making it a pocket money and keeping the focus, which is also contained in the agreement, that it should be a cultural exchange. The point is precisely that, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, that the rich families can continue to have au pair, because they can afford it; they are the ones who do not have so much money that now can no longer get that help. So with this agreement, it will be a matter of making this arrangement an even more exclusive arrangement for a more narrow group. And that's Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen, who helps make it an exclusive arrangement for a narrow group, not the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182920	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414182921	I look forward to seeing tomorrow's newspaper headlines on the weak families in such a pitiful situation and so poor, as the Conservative rapporteur says, that they will be with the very few modest rights that we give to au pair girls here, so that they are guaranteed conditions so that no one is using them. Of course there must be a journey paid back and forth and there must be an insurance scheme. These are quite ordinary, logical rules. Charlotte Dyremose is obviously concerned that there will be North Zealand voters who will not choose this scheme because it will be too expensive now. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183004	The reality is that today a great many of these families are paying the plane tickets, even without having to, and paying other things to their au pairs, because you just have a good relationship with each other, want to help each other, maybe want to help them bring a laptop home after the process, or whatever it may be of small extras. And that's excellent; it's something you do because you have a relationship with each other when you live together and are together in this family. Again, with regard to some North Zealand families, I would say that there are also North Zealand families who do not have so much money that they just think it doesn't matter with a few thousand of them. Moreover, there are also families elsewhere in the country who do not just think that some extra thousands are indifferent in their household economy and therefore may have to give priority to not having an au pair. But Mr. Bjarne Laustsen apparently does not know about families who do not just have a few extra thousand; Mr. Maybe Bjarne Laustsen should find out they're out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183104	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183107	Thank you. Of course, I think there are au-pairs in the country who are well, and then there are some who are less well. I have no reason to point the finger at certain families. But I would like to ask Mrs Charlotte Dyremose something that I asked Mrs Merete Riisager about earlier: why does the Conservative People's Party think it is reasonable that those who do not have an au pair should be involved in paying to those who have an au pair? For the way the system is set up today, language teaching is offered, for example, and the public pays for it. This basically means that all those who do not avail themselves of the scheme help to pay to those who avail themselves of the scheme. And then this bill will change, so that there will be a level of user fees, so that those who actually use the scheme will also help to pay for language teaching, as opposed to today. Does Mrs Charlotte Dyremose really not think this is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183202	Well, if we had had a real opportunity to negotiate, we could have found some kind of model where we could have tied up the little knot. We just think, basically, that with the arrangement that is being made here and which I am quite sure of Mr. Martin Henriksen seems to be a huge victory because it is going to make sure that we get fewer foreign people in this country, and I can only wish Mr. Martin Henriksen congratulations on the victory that has taken place together, which unfortunately makes it harder for several families to have au pair, and we are really sorry that you do. I know, sir. Martin Henriksen really appreciates it, for Mr. Martin Henriksen does not want foreign people to come to this country. On the other hand, we have no problem with families getting a helping hand with an au pair girl and some young people from other countries being given an opportunity to stay in Denmark for a period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183254	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183304	Now a few can come, if it's for the Danish People's Party, take it easy. But I must not hide the fact that I find it difficult to understand that if you want help to fix some things at home, you have to pick up people from the other side of the globe. After all, there are also some closer people who could be hired to do so, either in Denmark or in some countries immediately around us. So basically, the scheme is a rather curious size when you look at what type of work is being carried out and what is actually the title of the scheme, namely cultural exchange. Allow me to question whether there is so much cultural exchange in it. But am I to understand Mrs Charlotte Dyremose's answer that the Conservative People's Party actually believes that the current system, where it is so that all those who do not have an au pair contribute to paying to those who have an au pair, is unreasonable? Does the Conservative People's Party believe that the part about an increased element of user charges for those using the scheme is good, and could it really support that part of the bill if it were?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183354	We have no big problem with this opportunity to go to Danish education. We have no problem with that at all. We do not have a major problem with the change proposed here either, but it would have been a question if we had had the opportunity to negotiate it to look together at the package that is there. What we want to do is to make sure that it is about to pay for these families to have these au pairs, and also that the increased cost that the families had had had went uncut to the girls, so that they got a higher allowance, but that is not the case today, because this scheme provides for the possibility that it will be very much more expensive to be an au pair family without the au pair girls actually getting anything out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183440	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183451	Thank you for an exciting debate, a committed debate, almost on the border at times, to an ideological debate. I think it's been a pleasure. Au pair is actually something really good when it works in the good way. Young people come to another country, learn something about the country and the cultural things that are in that country, and busy families get a helping hand in everyday life. Therefore, when it works well, it is a good arrangement for all parties, and therefore it is also important that we keep in mind whether we should adjust so that it meets the intentions, and I think we have done so by the majority in favour of this bill, for the benefit of both the au pairs and the host families. We would then like to make some improvements with some very specific points, such as: by ensuring that au pairs can take paid holidays, that they can take part in voluntary unpaid work. I think that gives better opportunities to create social networks and get a greater cultural benefit from being in Denmark. To ensure that au pairs get the most out of their stay in Denmark, we also want to make greater use of the opportunities offered by Danish teaching. We therefore propose that the host families pay a lump sum for au pairs' Danish education. The Government and the parties to the agreement also want to improve the conditions of au pairs by ensuring that their rights are not infringed and, therefore, the existing registration of host families who fail to pay the entry or return ticket of au pairs or who fail to take out the required insurance so that they can now enter the register for a two-year period. During an au pair stay, the young girl enters a host family and is incompatible with the fact that the au pair has established a family of her own. The bill therefore creates a clear framework for people who are waiting for a child when applying for a residence permit or who become parents during their stay in this country. So there are a number of improvements here, which are partly in connection with the legislative proposal, and partly with the implementation of notices afterwards. I am pleased with the improvements, I am pleased with the majority that is, I am pleased with the discussion that has taken place today, and I hope that we will be able to have this legislative proposal adopted at third reading within too long. I shall make my contribution to the smooth running of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183719	Thank you, Minister. No one has wanted short remarks and then the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183737	The debate is open. And the first speaker is Mrs Tina Nedergaard as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183802	Thank you. As, unfortunately, our rapporteur cannot be present in the Chamber at this time, I have promised to read his speech. The draft law that we are going to deal with now is of a very technical nature; I can confirm that as a new one in this area. The proposal adjusts the municipal subsidy and compensation system to adapt the initial adjustments to the compensation system and establishes a temporary compensation scheme in 2016 and 2017. The proposal is part of the implementation of the agreement on the reform of the reimbursement system concluded between the government, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party. In short, the changes can be summed up as follows: it is an increase in the overall level of compensation in the country compensation from 58 to 61 per cent, a slight upward adjustment of the threshold for over-compensation and a reinforced compensation for municipalities with high structural deficits. In addition, a temporary compensation scheme is proposed which limits the calculated losses and gains of individual municipalities in 2016 and 2017. It is no secret that the Left would like to see the municipalities given a greater incentive to make things more appropriate. That is why, of course, the Left is in favour of the proposal to standardize the rates of reimbursement. This will help the municipalities to think more about the possibilities for the individual rather than think in boxes, for which they may be too much pressured today, and where, as a municipality, one might risk wondering how to get the most reimbursement. Against this background, the Left is in favour of this proposal, which we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183947	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414183955	With the employment reform of June 2014, we moved the focus from pointless activation to education and real skills raising for the unemployed. After 10 years of an employment system based on control and suspicion, it was an important shift to bring the unemployed back quickly to permanent employment. At the same time, the parties responsible for the reform of employment agreed to look at a change in the reimbursement system, which guarantees the municipalities money from the state in relation to unemployed citizens, and an adjustment of the compensation system. At the beginning of 2015, the government of the Folketing then landed a broad agreement on the reimbursement and compensation. The reorganisation of the refund system means that we are introducing a new and transparent system, in which the rate of reimbursement is basically the same across benefits and decreasing over time. This will support a more effective employment effort, where it is the right effort for the citizen to be put at the centre, rather than the municipality fund and the highest reimbursement. However, what this draft law deals with is only part of the agreement, namely to adapt the municipal subsidy and compensation system as well as a temporary compensation scheme applicable in 2016 and 2017. In short, the changes in the rates of reimbursement mean that we are increasing the block grants and employment grants of the municipalities, while we are correspondingly reducing the reimbursement of the dependent costs. Overall, the new reimbursement system is cost-neutral. However, the changes mean that some municipalities will experience a net loss and that others will experience a net gain. With the agreement, we agree across the parties that the reimbursement adjustment should not involve accidental shifts in the economy of the municipalities. That is why we are at the same time making adjustments to the municipal subsidy and compensation system, which we are implementing with the legislative proposal we are discussing here. In concrete terms, the legislative proposal means that we increase the overall level of compensation and over-compensation and that we strengthen the compensation for municipalities with high structural deficits. This means greater equalisation between rich and poor municipalities. The draft law also means that we are setting up a temporary compensation scheme which limits the losses of municipalities and their gains to 0.1%. of their tax bases in 2016 and 0,2%; in 2017. In addition, we set a ceiling which, in crowns and ears, further limits the absolute gains and also the absolute losses to be 10 million. kr. in 2016 and 20 million; kr. in 2017. The funds collected in this way by setting ceilings we reserve as a subsidy for particularly disadvantaged municipalities. These are short-term adjustments to the draft law. They create a better balance, and it is then planned that the Finance Committee of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior will be entrusted with the task of drawing up a model for a permanent adjustment of the compensation system, which may enter into force from 1 January 2018. With those words, I must inform you that the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184337	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184341	I would ask the rapporteur to explain what is meant by balance. Is it balance that if there comes 100 kroner? extra in the box, a municipality like Gentofte must deliver 93 DKK.? Is that an expression of balance? Is it a balance that when you go to the Ministry of Economic Affairs' website and look at what the costs are in the different municipalities in relation to what the cost needs are in the different municipalities, you see that there is no balance between what the costs are and what the cost needs are according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs' own methods? There is no balance. If you look at a municipality like Hjørring, which receives a lot of money, you see that they have expenses that are 6%. above the average of what other municipalities with the same expenditure needs have of expenditure. So there is an over-compensation. This is not an expression of balance, it is an expression of the fact that we have a deeply dysfunctional equalisation system which not only distributes money from rich municipalities to poor municipalities, but where there is no longer a balance between expenditure and expenditure needs. It is not an expression of balance, it is an expression of imbalance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184504	I think that on the day we have a perfect equalisation system, we might as well put aside all other political disputes, because then we have achieved something very, very great. I would just like to say that the equalisation system is of course not perfect, but the equalisation system creates something that is very, very important, at least from a socialist point of view, and that is that we create the possibility of providing a fairly uniform service across the Danish country. And if sir... Joachim B. Olsen and the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance believe that with the presentation you make here you swim in milk and honey in Hjørring, then I think we should drive up there together and try to talk to the citizens who are in Hjørring about whether it is their experience of it. It is clear that there is a high level of compensation for municipalities that are doing well. It is a form of solidarity, and it is an expression of creating a fairly uniform service throughout the country. This is certainly a basis for its delivery.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184556	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184558	I am not saying that you swim in milk and honey in Hjørring, I say that Hjørring's expenditure in relation to their spending needs, i.e. when you clean up socio-economic differences, because demographic differences are higher than in other municipalities. I don't know if the money goes to service. It may also be that they are not being used very effectively, I cannot say that. I just have to say that when you stand and say that this is about having the same service in all municipalities, we have gone far beyond that. That's not just what it is today. Then I would just like to ask, and that must be an answer: does the rapporteur think it is reasonable that the municipality of Gentofte should deliver 93 out of 100 kroner.? If you get an extra 100 kroner. In the box, do they have to hand in the 93? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184644	I think it is quite reasonable that we have a system where we ensure that wherever you live in this small country, there is roughly the same starting point for providing a good service to our citizens. This means that, yes, some of the places where you are more well-off, you give a little more to the compensation system. I think that the attention given to Gentofte Municipality is almost touching. I must admit that I think there are many mayors who would like to exchange places with Hans Toft in Gentofte to experience the situation there. Our equalization system is not perfect, but it serves an important purpose. And may I not just say something about what you deliver from Gentofte and elsewhere: this bill represents balance, because there are limits to how much you can lose and how much you can win, and these are quite narrow limits, so I don't think it's gonna overturn anything in Gentofte either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184735	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Socialists. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414184747	Thank you. This proposal is, after all, an adjustment of the compensation system with an increased level of compensation to ensure that it works for the benefit of the peripheral municipalities. This is done by increasing the level of national compensation, while the limits for over-compensation and the system for municipalities with high structural deficits are adjusted. It has been a long process that we have been through and, in this respect, a transitional period has been established in which the municipalities can lose no more than 0.1 per cent. of the taxable amount in 2016 and 0,2%; in 2017, as well as a cap that further limits the absolute gains and losses to 10 million. kr. in 2016 and to 20 million; kr. in 2017. All this has been done to ensure that there is more equality between municipalities and that the most disadvantaged municipalities can still survive. So in this way we in the Danish People's Party think the scheme is okay. It is also planned that we will then have to negotiate a new compensation system that will enter into force on 1 January, and there will then be some negotiations with the KL to ensure that we have communities that work and that we can have a reasonable service throughout the country. There is a large difference between tax revenue and the income of the municipalities, and there may also be a large difference between the costs they have, depending on the composition of the population base. We have tried to take that into account in this proposal, and we have also succeeded far along the way. There is then the pool for particularly vulnerable municipalities where a little has been said that there has not been so much money in it; we must have looked at that a little more closely. We have an agreement that it must be ensured that there will be additional subsidies for particularly vulnerable municipalities, and we will continue to do so. Perhaps we need a little more negotiations to get the right solution to this. But all in all it has been examined here, and of course the Danish People's Party supports this proposal, as we are part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185004	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Helge Vagn Jacobsen as rapporteur for the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185015	Thank you. This draft law, L 171, is very technical, but it is in all its simplicity about how to avoid the consequences for the municipalities' economy when reorganising the reimbursement system in the field of employment. It has already been discussed earlier today in connection with L 183, so I will not go into that further. With this bill, we are implementing some preliminary changes to the grant and compensation system in 2016 and 2017, and from 2018 a permanent change in the grant and compensation system will be implemented following a re-political review as a result of changes in employment. It has been crucial for the Radical Left in the course of the negotiations that we have made a temporary adjustment with this bill which, as far as possible, does not result in major losses or gains for some municipalities. That is why various compensation schemes have been introduced, which I shall briefly discuss. Firstly, we limit the profits or losses of the municipalities by 0.1 and 0.2 per cent respectively. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's Secondly, we also limit the absolute gain or losses of each municipality by setting a ceiling of 10 million and 20 million respectively. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Thirdly, we are also setting up some funds from the surplus generated by this change, which can be used precisely for grants to particularly disadvantaged municipalities and which are transferred to the existing subsidy framework • the one under Section 16 of the Equalisation Act. The amount of these additional funds for the disadvantaged municipalities is calculated on the basis of the accounts of the municipalities from 2015, which is why we do not yet know the final amounts. Fourthly, the government has undertaken that in the forthcoming economic negotiations with the municipalities, additional attention will be given to an increase in the special grant pool for the disadvantaged municipalities. These things you can say four compensatory measures make us in the Radical Left judge that care has been taken to avoid any unintended financial consequences for the municipalities' finances in 2016 and 2017. In particular, special attention has been paid to the particularly disadvantaged municipalities. The Radical Left is thus in agreement with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185245	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185254	Thank you. I'll be brief. The SF supports the bill as it contains a number of sensible elements. First of all, it is ensured that the new law on the reorganization of the reimbursement system in the field of employment does not have a number of unintended municipal economic effects, including: By way of the temporary compensation scheme, which will limit the losses and gains of municipalities in 2016 and 2017. In addition, an initial adjustment of the compensation system with an increased level of compensation is being proposed, which will all the other things being equal for the benefit of peripheral municipalities. SF's desire for a more equal Denmark is fine. Finally, we also think it makes good sense for the Financial Committee to look at a permanent adjustment of the municipal subsidy and compensation system so that a more forward-looking solution can come into force per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When the committee is ready, we obviously expect the conciliation circle behind the recent changes to the compensation system to be invited to negotiations. In any case, SF is always prepared to enter into negotiations that will ensure a more equal Denmark. Finally, I should just like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior to be sensitive to the part of the KL's hearing in which they point out that even a loss of up to 0.2 per cent. the tax base may be a problem for some municipalities. We hope that this will be part of the Minister's thinking when the special grant is distributed over the next two years. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185405	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185408	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I am therefore very surprised that the rapporteur from the SF supports this bill. After all, it is no more than an hour ago that we had a debate on the bill that this is connected with and is part of. Although separated in two, there is an indissolubly link between L 183 on the reorganization of the reimbursement system and this bill. We heard SF's rapporteur there about an hour ago, Mr. Eigil Andersen, in the very best and sharpest way, argues against L 183. So how is it that the SF now supports what is a prerequisite for the adoption of L 183? All the other rapporteurs have clearly seen the coherence of these things. So I can't really fit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185500	In SF, we are concerned that the equalisation systems that are made give a more equal Denmark. This proposal is not an expression of the best of all worlds, but we think there are improvements in relation to what has been. And that's why SF supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185521	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185523	The legislative proposal we have here is, after all, completely inextricably linked to another legislative proposal against which the SF is opposed. That's what Mr. Eigil Andersen in any case expresses in a very sharp and clear and precise way. This bill is, after all, only temporary and insufficient compensation for the deterioration in the reimbursement system which the SF rapporteur argued against an hour ago. You can say a little more popularly that this is such a kind of glaze that should make the really bitter pill slide down. I simply do not understand that. How could one be opposed to the context an hour ago, but now helping L 183 through by supporting this bill? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185620	But it is really one of the most important differences between SF and Enhedslisten. SF is in conciliation, SF is part of broad political agreements to influence the policy to be implemented in Denmark. That is why we also go in and negotiate actively when we can mitigate the adverse effects of things that we may not like. This is the way to influence politics, and it is a crucial difference between Enhedslisten and SF, namely that SF goes in and takes responsibility in conciliation circles. The Enhedslisten has neither a great tradition nor a long one, and it may well be that Mr. Finn Sørensen doesn't really understand the substance of that difference. But that's where the difference lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185700	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414185719	That is the advantage of coming after the previous rapporteur. For I will then continue the controversy so far that I would like to point out that, as I understand it, the SF is not part of any conciliation here, and as such has had no influence on either the L 183 that we dealt with one hour ago or the bill that we are dealing with here. Like all the other rapporteurs, as I explained an hour ago, the Enhedslisten, like the SF, was at least at that time in principle opposed to the change of the reimbursement system that is taking place, with the uniform argument that this change means punishing the municipalities that have many long-term unemployed, many long-term sicknesses, many people with reduced working capacity for one reason or another disability or whatever. The municipalities which have many of these kinds of people, but have no labour market that can accept them, are being unfairly punished by reducing the compensation or reimbursement that these municipalities receive from the state to social benefits. For this means that when it is phased, the municipalities themselves must cover 90%. of the benefit after 52 weeks on each benefit. The municipalities are being punished for circumstances in which they have no influence. And just as the LO and the FTF and the Council of Sociale Vulnerable and Dansk Handicap Federation have expressed their views in the hearings, the Enhedslisten believes that it also thought 1 hour ago that, in all probability, this means that the penalty imposed on the municipalities by a deterioration in the reimbursement system will be passed on to the citizens in the way that the LO and the FTF directly express it. It is feared that the restructuring of the reimbursement system will mean that the municipalities will push the citizens even more into what is called self-reliance, i.e.. self-reliance. No support whatsoever. It is clear that we maintain our criticism of this. It does not help, of course, to come up with something that is not a real compensation for that problem. For what does it help Lolland or Langeland Municipality or other municipalities that have many long-term unemployed, many long-term sicknesses, that the economy at national level goes to zero? It doesn't help the municipalities, and it's not supposed to. Because the purpose of the restructuring of the refund system and the purpose of this change in compensation is to increase what is called the economic incentive in the municipalities to get people into work. And it would be fine if we were in a glorious world where there were plenty of jobs for people with reduced working capacity. But unfortunately that is not the reality. Then I would also like to draw attention to the fact that what is being proposed here is a temporary and in addition to the inadequate compensation which will lapse in two years' time. And the same goes for the limits that have been imposed on losses and gains. These rules lapse and there will be a system of compensation that no one knows today. That means you buy the cat in the bag if you vote for this. For the change of the rates of reimbursement and the financial penalty some call it the incentive to the municipalities stand firm, but no one knows how the compensation system will later be screwed up. So the Enhedslisten maintains the coherence between L 183 and the bill we are discussing here, and we are voting against both of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190127	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190134	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask you about sir. Finn Sørensen agrees that with this bill we are precisely ensuring that the economy of the municipalities does not deteriorate as a result of L 183.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190146	No, we do not agree with that. We agree with it says that if you look at the municipalities under one, you can see that they don't lose that money; that's probably right. It just doesn't help the municipalities that are in the situation I described before.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190203	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190205	Well, then, sir, that's what I'm gonna do. Finn Sørensen is also right to say that the municipalities are not losing money during this reimbursement change and with this bill? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190217	That is absolutely correct, and I did not say that it was not the case either. If the rapporteur had listened to my arguments, he would probably have heard what the problem is in this. That is to say that it penalises the municipalities which have many longterm unemployed, many longterm sicknesses and other people with reduced working capacity, and not any labour market that can accept them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190238	Then there is a preliminary last brief remark from Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190242	Thank you. I remember hearing Enhedslisten argue that we are voting in favour of things that are in a positive direction and that we are voting against things that are deterioration or negative. And now I hear that Enhedslisten is trying to make things a little more difficult by connecting L 183 very closely with L 171. But here it is L 171 that we are dealing with quite independently, and that means that we can deal with the two legislative proposals individually and independently. Now, Enhedslisten says that the negative here, as I hear the adjectives, is that it is temporary and that it is insufficient, but then I just have to ask something: does the rapporteur not agree that with this bill there will be an increase in the special grant pool for particularly disadvantaged municipalities? Does it not agree that the municipalities which have had enormous losses to make the reimbursement restructuring alone are now being compensated and are coming close to being brought to zero after their losses? Does the rapporteur not agree that this is a good legislative proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190347	Now we feel that we want to deal with reality. So we have not promised to vote in favour of improvements to the deterioration that have not yet been achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190357	Simon Kollerup? No. Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, and then it's Mr. Sørensen. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414190411	Thank you so much. The bill we are debating now is a bill that we are very much opposed to in the Liberal Alliance. It is a question of increasing the compensation between municipalities. National compensatory amounts are increased from 57 to 61 per cent and over-compensation is increased from 92 to 93 per cent. It is the case that if you look at the service levels in the municipalities today, they have become lower. However, it has come to the point where there really is over-compensation, so that the recipient municipalities have a higher level of service compared with the paying municipalities, or at least they spend more money than their spending needs. This means that, when we clean up socio-economic and demographic differences, there is an imbalance in the cost to the recipient municipalities, and that is absolutely absurd. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at the level of expenditure in Hjørring Municipality, one can see that it is at 106%. of the average level of service. This means that the average municipality covers expenditure requirements by 6%. lower costs, and this is according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs' own calculations. Frederiksberg Municipality uses 93 per cent. of what the average municipality with the same expenditure needs uses. In other words, when you look at the inhabitants of the municipalities, when you look at the socio-economic differences or demographic differences, the municipalities have some spending needs. If you have many people on transfer income, and if you have many older people, then of course you have greater spending requirements. But when you clean up these differences, it's like there's an over-compensation going on. It cannot have been the intention of the system of compensation to get so far out. The compensation that is taking place today is not for the benefit of the citizens of the outskirtsdanmark, as is often heard. This may be an advantage for the mayors in the outskirtsdanmark, who receive a great deal of money from which they can then distribute. However, if you want to do something good for the citizens of the outskirtsdanmark, it would be much more sensible to spend the money in other ways. They could be used for better infrastructure, and there could also be a liberalisation of the planning law, etc., which enabled the outskirts municipalities to create a better framework for business. The compensatory mechanism, as it has developed, creates a very distorted incentive structure. Incentives for municipalities such as: Lyngby and Gentofte to pursue an offensive business policy are not very big. This does not mean, of course, that they cannot have the ambition to do so; they just don't get much out of it if they succeed. If, for example, Comes 100 kroner. extra in the box in Gentofte Municipality today, so they must deliver 92 kr.; 92 kr. out of 100 kroner. must be paid to citizens of other municipalities. Now you change it, so that amount goes up to $93. A municipality like Lyngby, which today delivers 950 million. kr. to the compensation scheme, must now hand over 8 million. kr. extra, and the amount will increase. Gentofte has to deliver $10 million. kr. extra, and it will also rise. It is not for the benefit of the ordinary citizens of the municipality of Lyngby that you have this equalisation. It is they who pay the price; it is the nurse or the police officer in Lyngby who should be compensated. The higher level of expenditure in the municipality of Lyngby should be compensated for by a lower tax. For the tax base is so large that in the municipality of Lyngby they will be able to deliver the same level of service as they are doing today for much less money if they do not have to pay so much for the compensation scheme. So the thing about saying that this is such a redistribution from the rich to the poor is a truth with modifications. It is therefore, as I said, the ordinary employees of the municipality of Lyngby and I should like to say that they are therefore found as nurses and police officers, etc., who pay the price. They pay far too much tax compared to the tax base in the municipality, and at the same time they have much higher living costs. I have to say that in the Liberal Alliance we are very, very disappointed that the bourgeois parties, in particular the Left and the Conservatives, are contributing to this bill. I have been in countless debates with candidates from the Conservative People's Party and from the Left, and they have all said that it was a matter for them to reduce the compensation now. Lars Barfoed said in 2012: "Now the compensation screw is tightened more than enough. You cannot take more money from municipalities that already contribute a lot. This is punishing growth and punishment for making good use of money in public administrations. It is a breach of promise, and it is a pity that the Liberal Alliance is now the only party in the Folketing that rejects the over-compensation that is taking place. We think that is a pity. This is not something that contributes to the efficient use of funds in the municipalities. It creates inefficiency in the municipalities that there is this very violent redistribution. It should be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191001	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191006	Thank you. After all, this bill is not a legislative proposal to change the system of subsidies and compensation, but merely to make some adjustments in relation to the restructuring of refunds in the field of employment. However, when the rapporteur himself raises the debate, perhaps I would like to ask a question. Looking at these particularly disadvantaged municipalities, which in 2014 and 2015 received 300 million respectively. kr. and 400 million kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191045	There is one thing I do not understand here by the Radicals, who often talk about being more efficient in the municipalities and we think that is very good. It is not so much that you want to ensure a level of service. One can then discuss the reasonableness of that, i.e. should one have the same level of service everywhere when one does not have the same income? It's a discussion you can have. We think it is fine that there is some sort of compensation. But you can discuss whether there should be no link between the revenue you have and the expenditure you have, so that if you want a higher level of service, you have to, for example, have to. Put up the treasure. Then you can have a local discussion about what you think is right. This is in fact one of the problems of the compensation that is taking place today, namely that it undermines democracy in the municipalities. For instead of having discussions about priorities in the municipalities, you go to Christiansborg and ask for more money through the compensation scheme... lobbies for it to be tightened or through different pools. But what is at stake here is that when you look at the expenditure needs in the municipalities, this over-compensation is taking place today. That should be problematic for all parties, even if you want a level of service. It must then be seen as a problem when one comes into a situation where the level of expenditure does not correspond to the needs of the local authorities. The Radicals should be able to see that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191225	Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191227	Thank you. Now Mr. Joachim B. Olsen not really on the question of these 31 municipalities, but leave it at that. It might come in the election campaign, i.e. a list of which municipalities aren't supposed to have from these special pools anymore. I therefore agree that it is absolutely essential that there is an incentive in the individual municipalities to operate their municipality effectively. And that is also why we have the budget law, which provides a framework for how much money you can spend and how much tax you have to collect and so on. in all municipalities as a whole. This has proved to be very effective, because for the first time in many years the municipalities have actually kept their budgets. So I do not share the concern or the image of driving municipalities inefficiently. I do not know whether the rapporteur could perhaps also give some concrete examples of municipalities which he believes are very ineffective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191313	But there are differences between the municipalities today. Not all municipalities operate inefficiently. I believe that such a municipality as Vejle Municipality is one of the most effective municipalities at all. I believe that if all municipalities had the same level of service for the same costs as Vejle Municipality, some 25 billion could be saved. kr. It says that there are some major differences and that there is also a potential for efficiency in many municipalities. It should also be remembered that the pools to which the rapporteur refers are something that comes on top of the compensation that is already taking place. This means that we already have a system whereby the municipalities with the largest structural surpluses have to pay to those with the largest structural deficits. This is the situation that means that Gentofte will have to deliver 93 kroner. out of 100 kroner. through the compensation scheme, and on top of that there will be pools for some of these municipalities. So it is a massive redistribution, and it is a redistribution that has taken precedence and which unfortunately helps to support inefficiency in the municipalities. That should be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191417	Sir. Simon Kollerup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191419	Thank you. I really have to sign, because I think it is always refreshing to have the Liberal Alliance on the platform, because there is at least such a reasonable cut in terms of cutting through etc., and that is what we are doing here. There is no shortage of attacks on the equalization system, how foolish it is, and that it is being overmatched, and I shall come after you. What interests me is when the rapporteur says that this money could be used in a different way. I assume that he then thinks that the money could be distributed to the municipalities in a different way than the compensation system. And now I get so little interested in what visions the Liberal Alliance itself has on this point: the dreams, the future, what Municipality Denmark looks like. Could the Liberal Alliance rapporteur not try to tell us how it would be so desirable for the money, the block subsidy for the municipalities, to be distributed? How are we going to do this when the compensation system is not the way forward? Are we gonna use the population? Is that the pure parameter you have to do it after? Or how does the rapporteur feel the money should be distributed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191524	We have not said that there should be no compensation. We just want less compensation because we simply note, among other things. by reading the government's own figures that there is no more correlation between expenditure needs and actual expenditure in the municipalities, and that there is therefore a potential for efficiency in the municipalities. And we think that should be taken seriously. Because what it means when the municipalities are not run as efficiently as they could is a real loss of welfare. There are simply resources that are being wasted, and nobody can be interested in that. Excuse me, sir. Simon Kollerup will just repeat the question, I will answer it. I don't think I did.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191611	Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191611-2	It was, in fact, a relatively large but also simple question, namely: what are some changes you would like to see? How do we see this money being distributed in block grants to the municipalities? For the equalization system is a very delicate distribution system, which takes account of a number of parameters: demographic and socio-economic, and a wide range of parameters, which are weighted in different forms and in this way taken into account. So that was the one question: what is the system we are going to have in the future? Then I have to ask a little interested when you say that they get too much money in Hjørring Municipality. Could one not then try to tell what they have, which is too much, in the municipality of Hjørring and in the outermost regions? Because I understand that there is too much money going from the well-stocked municipalities to the outermost regions. So what is it that you have too much of? Because there must be something you can spare when you could spare the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191703	It's not certain there's something you have too much of. What we just notice is that when you look at Hjørring's spending needs, that is, when you look at the socio-economic composition of the population in Hjørring, at the demography in Hjørring, you say that they have some sort of expenditure need there. Then you look at how much money they actually spend, and then you can see that they spend 6%. more than the average municipality with the same expenditure needs. I do not know whether the 6% that they spend more go to better service and that the citizens of Hjørring experience that they have a better service and a higher level of service than citizens of other municipalities. I don't know. It may also be that the money is not used very sensibly and that it could be made more efficient in Hjørring municipality. What is absolutely certain is that when you have an incentive structure such as the one we have today, where the incentive for municipalities to streamline is not very great, you should also expect that this will not happen. And you can only see, when you look at the municipalities, that the differences are very large. I mean, not all municipalities are equally efficient. And what we are adopting today does not support the fact that they will then be driven more effectively, on the contrary. We find this regrettable, because what it ultimately brings is a loss of welfare for the Danes as a whole. And we don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191828	Thank you. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414191838	Thank you, sir. President. After all, the legislative proposal we are debating today stems from the reform we made shortly before the summer holidays last year, namely the employment reform, of which Conservatives were a part, and where we improved, strengthened and changed employment efforts, job efforts and the labour market as a whole. We were very much in favour of this. But of that, a refund scheme came into being, which would then have to be negotiated after the summer holidays, and it has taken a long time to try to find an overall arrangement for it. After all, we have been opposed to the model that the government has put forward. It is well known to most people who have insight into this matter that we do not agree that the compensation scheme should be used to compensate in the way that is intended, and we have tried to persuade the government to change its perception of this. We have not succeeded in doing so, and we have recently had to note that we also received no support from the Left and the Danish People's Party in the bourgeois camp in our veto of the regime that was on the table by the government. Finally, we had to deal with the matter, since we were opposed to this arrangement and the way it was going to take place, whether we could stay in that conciliation circle or whether we had to step out. Because we were informed that if we did not reach an agreement, we could not be involved in designing, formulating and finally deciding on the permanent adjustment to be made to the compensation system. And that's why it ended up with us having the gun on our forehead and having to choose between standing outside or going along with and influencing the agreement to be made in 2018. It is absolutely crucial for us that we have something to say there. The Liberal Alliance has the same view as Conservatives, that is to say that this refund scheme model and the basis on which it stands are quite wrong. For a long time we have been opposed by the conservatives to the way in which the compensation system is constructed; we do not think there is any head or tail in it; there is no sense in it; there is no justice in it; it is not proper. We were not in the last review when we made the agreement under the former Minister, Mrs Margrethe Vestager, because we simply could not see ourselves in that agreement. But it would be too big a bill to pay if no one were to sit on our side having the right views when a permanent compensation system is to be set up. Therefore we stayed there, but it was under protest; it was with a clear indication that this arrangement has not grown in our garden. We tried to withdraw the veto card; we tried, as best we could, to change it. It didn't work out. Eventually, however, we agreed that it would be 0.1 per cent. of the total tax base in 2016 and 0.2%. in 2017. That'll be a maximum of 10 million. kr. in profit losses in 2016 and 20 million; kr. in 2017. It is a small improvement, but not nearly enough to go along with it if it was not because we believe that we will be the only party to ensure that there is a balance in the permanent system of compensation. And that's our reason for supporting this case and that's the only reason. I think I have made it clear that we are very sceptical and very critical of the compensation system and its way of working. And I have, of course, been the rapporteur for the Conservative Party on this matter and have seen that Esbjerg is the municipality of everyone in the whole country that will pay the most. In other words, it makes no sense for Esbjerg to be the municipality that has to pay the most, namely 28 million. kr. and more than Gentofte. So it should be clear to everyone that I have had it as close to life as possible, yet there was no alternative. We go along with it to have influence of civil voices who work. And then we must hope that we will have a proper compensation scheme in 2018. We will use our conservative forces and vote to achieve that hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192238	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192242	I have to say, I think it's a strange explanation for the Conservatives. As I said, I have been in numerous debates with parliamentary candidates for the Conservative People's Party, in which they like to insist that the compensation system we have today and the compensation that is taking place today are deeply unfair and that no further compensation will be provided. The former chairman of the Conservative People's Party has said that you will not. We are then helping to do this today, and the explanation now is that in many, many years' time we will be negotiating a new system of compensation, in which we will then reduce the compensation and hope that we can have an impact on it. There is nothing to suggest that the Conservatives will not go along with it anyway. There isn't. We do not know what is happening in Danish politics. It may be that the Conservatives will be in government in a few years' time and will naturally help negotiate. The point is, you break a promise. We have promised our core voters, for example. Gentofte Municipality, that you don't want to increase the compensation, and now you do it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192353	The essence of this case is that this reimbursement scheme, this transitional arrangement, would have been adopted, whether or not the Conservative People's Party had been involved. We could have said no, and then to do as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen would have liked to have run away from all responsibility, ran so fast from here that you could only see the soles of shoes, for Mr. Joachim B. Olsen will have nothing to do with it. We thought that the price of helping to change the permanent regime was worth paying, because we fear someone will lose that balance if we are not there to ensure that there is reasonableness in it. We've seen how wrong things have gone in the years up to. We have always said that we are opposed to the compensation system. We came out of the agreement that was negotiated a few years ago. We're not part of it. I have clearly indicated all our opposition to it, and I have argued in the east and west of why there is no head and tail in it. There is no coherence in it, there is no justice in it, and there is no common sense in it. We would make a completely new arrangement if we could, but we do not have the mandates to change it. That is why we are doing the right thing: we agree to have the decisive influence in 2018 when the permanent solution is to be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192501	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192503	There is no justice, there is no common sense in this, and yet you vote yes. It doesn't make sense. This is a classic example of how, as a small party, you completely overestimate your own role and what you can achieve. What the Conservatives should be doing here was to stand and speak against this with the Liberal Alliance and help to speak against the compensation system we have today, instead of voting for it and further increasing compensation. That's what you should do. It is regrettable, and it comes from the heart: I really regret that the Conservative People's Party is choosing the strategy that they are doing, because it is the strategy that has led to many, many mistakes, including in the Conservative People's Party, and that we continue with it, I think, is worrying for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192551	I have therefore spoken against the compensatory system before Mr Gundelach. Joachim B. Olsen joined Parliament. In any case, I have toned and thundered against it and argued firmly that the compensation system we have does not work and that we must find a new one. Everyone who wants to take an interest in this case knows that. Now I could then write myself off from here, where we are so close to the goal of joining in 2018 when there will be a new, permanently changed compensation scheme. My hope is that there will finally be justice; there I can finally influence it and change it. Should I run away now, sir? Joachim B. Olsen? Should I now run out of place and let others take on the responsibility that they have shown in the past that they do not want? That would be the dumbest thing I could ever do. That is why I remain, and that is why I am working to gain political influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192635	Sir. Simon Kollerup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192639	Thank you. I have to say, frankly, that I would like to acknowledge that the Conservative People's Party takes up the gauntlet and goes along with constructive political work instead of standing on the extreme right and shouting into political work. So I'd like to sign for that. Having said that, can the rapporteur first of all confirm to me that the mandate we have adopted for the future work of the Financial Committee is relatively narrowly defined in relation to looking at what can be done when the temporary arrangement ends? In other words, we can tune the compensatory system in proportion to the changes that have been made to the reimbursement. That's one. The second question is this: I can now hear that we would like to go deeper into the system of compensation. Couldn't we get some leads on what top three issues you want to change in the compensation system? Do you want to surpass the Liberal Alliance with a hetz against the outermost regions? I know that the rapporteur himself has been the mayor of the old Municipality of Vamdrup. What is the wish of the forthcoming system of compensation for the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192747	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup to ask a relevant question. That is true, and it is well placed for a mayor from a so-called outskirts municipality with one of the lowest tax bases, so I know what I am talking about when we talk about equalisation. And I know that many municipalities need the equalisation in order to cope with the level of service required, so this is not a simple exercise. It's not something you solve with a fingertips. What I am saying is that a mandate has been made, and we have agreed to that. But it is a group of experts who are now being asked to make a proposal that we, as politicians, have to deal with what the new equalisation system should look like, and it is we as politicians who decide the size, the extent, the importance of it. And there I have a very ambitious, visionary plan for what it will look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192831	Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192834	This is what we would like to hear a little about, the very ambitious and visionary plan. Because, on the one hand, the outskirts and outskirts challenges to the bottom of the rapporteur do, and I acknowledge and acknowledge that. On the other hand, there has been a huge controversy between the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party today about the so-called core picker segment, namely Gentofte Municipality, and I also believe that Frederiksberg was in the picture at some point. There are a lot of interests at stake, which is why it could perhaps be profitable for all of us to know where the Conservative People's Party is in favour of the future equalisation system. What do you want to change? What do you want more of? What is it you want less of?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414192915	Conservatives want a simpler, more transparent, more easy-to-understand equalisation system. But we are gathered here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, and we have the officials sitting in the corner. They are our experts, and some of the few in this country understand how the current system works from a to a year. It shows something about how complicated it is. I fully acknowledge the work they are doing on the terms that exist. But we just want a system that seems more sensible, so that when you see who has to pay the most in some compensation exercise, it is by chance my company, the municipality of Esbjerg, who has to pay more than any of the municipalities that call themselves the most wealthy. I also think it is quite awful that Gentofte should pay as much as they should. I don't think there's a head or a tail in that. But I do not think there is any head or tail in the fact that Esbjerg of all has to pay even more. This shows that things are not balanced. It needs to be changed, and that is what I want to use my political powers on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414193009	Then the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior will have the opportunity to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414193017	Thank you for a sometimes heated debate. I would like to thank you for receiving the bill and, above all, the SF for agreeing to the bill. I will come back to that, but here I just say that I think it is quite a sensible and balanced legislative proposal. Therefore, despite our conciliation status, I cannot entirely agree with the portrait that the Conservative rapporteur may have drawn from the proposal. Nevertheless, it is here that the bill that was dealt with earlier on the day is, overall, a package that implements the agreement of 2 February 2015 between the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party on reform of the refund system and adjustments to the compensation system. Employment Minister's Bill No. L 183 on a new refund system, which was therefore under discussion in the past, makes it clear, together with this, that we can now look forward to a completely new employment system. It is therefore a significant shift in the approach to the municipal employment effort. Firstly, the reform must be seen as the economic engine of this major change in employment, where on the one hand the municipalities are given greater freedom in the task-solving in an area which I think the municipalities have seen as one of the most regular areas, and in particular it is important to look across the various services. On the other hand, the reimbursement restructuring allows us to provide this treatment across services and there is a comprehensive debureaucratisation and clean-up in the complicated rules, which had the problem that they took the focus of the municipalities' main purpose of the employment effort, namely to get the unemployed into work. Secondly, this means that we will have greater overall financial responsibility, with a strengthened incentive from the municipalities to achieve results from the effort and thus also the ability to tailor efforts to the individual unemployed rather than to manage according to the many rules. In other words, we are making it possible to carry out this historic transformation of the financing system, because at the same time, and this is what the bill is aiming at here, we are taking care of the burden-sharing shifts that would otherwise result from such a change in funding. It is also perfectly understandable, therefore, that the SF's rapporteur argues that with this bill, whatever one might think of the other bill, we are trying to take account of the fact that such a major change would initially shift quite large sums of money between municipalities if no transitional model were created. I understood from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it is believed that with the overall package here the municipalities are being punished for matters on which they have no influence. On the contrary, I think it is quite the opposite. Because we can just see that there are actually good results from the work outside. It makes a difference how the employment effort is organized and therefore it makes very good sense to give degrees of freedom. In any case, the specific legislative proposal here does not punish anyone for circumstances in which they have no influence. On the contrary, we are trying to level in relation to what the starting point would be if we were to just make the reimbursement adjustment. Therefore, Enhedslisten's conclusion should be the same as SF's, namely that, regardless of whether you are critical of the reimbursement itself, this is at least something that ensures a form of levelling. You could then hear Mr. Finn Sørensen says: What does it do for Lolland and Langeland? I would therefore urge you to look into the annex to the draft law and see what the draft law really does for Lolland and Langeland. For just in 2016, Lolland will be favoured by 6.5 million. kr. and Langeland with 2 million. kr., as precisely as the two municipalities, as Mr. Finn Sørensen went forward, of course, if the bill were not adopted, would be worse off. That is why I have to say that this is precisely what makes it possible to ensure that no one is punished for circumstances in which they do not have any influence, but that we can have an employment system which starts with a relatively clean slate and can start working on the basis of the conditions that you have, with the unemployed you have, with the aim of bringing them to work. As far as the Liberal Alliance is concerned, I think I have to say that we basically do not share the view of what is the task of a compensatory system. I think I can sense that the principle that has been applied is that it was intended to offset in such a way that an increase in the tax rate somewhere also allowed for the same boost in service. This is an honest matter, and it will of course be difficult to reach agreement on a proposal here. But I could understand that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen believes that if you want to help the outskirts, it is better to spend the money on infrastructure. I have to say that we prefer a model like this, where after all we do not take the money out of the municipalities, but simply move them around between the municipalities. And if you were to take the money out to infrastructure, you'd have to scratch it in first after all. So we must probably live with the fact that there is a more fundamental disagreement which may not be dealt with by a committee either. I should like to remind the SF rapporteur that we are very concerned about the disadvantaged municipalities as well. In the course of the process, as indicated in the consultations, this has been an important issue which we have addressed in the discussions. Therefore, it will also be our ambition to see whether, in the negotiations that will be about a municipal agreement, we can ensure that we have a pool for disadvantaged municipalities that will allow us to address some of the challenges that are derived from this too. In other words, with the adjustment of compensation and a secure transitional regime and a plan to establish a solid analysis basis for new and permanent adjustments, we believe that, with the reform of employment, we are in fact providing the security of the economic impact on municipalities both in the short and long term, which must be a prerequisite for achieving the results we have set ourselves. First of all, I would like to thank the conciliation parties for the work that has been done. It is not quite easy to change the municipal compensation system. I think a lot of people can talk about that. It may not be quite easy to do so at the end of a parliamentary term, and perhaps the debate here also bears witness to that. However, I would like to thank you for taking on the task and for finding solutions and balances in what will hopefully enable us here, before Parliament calls for summer holidays, to adopt these two legislative proposals. Thus, we are making a historic debureaucratisation of employment efforts in a good and secure way, which hopefully contributes to the creation of even more unemployed people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414193730	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414193733	Thank you. After all, the Minister himself said that the two legislative proposals are a package and that this is also part of the package which concerns the restructuring of the refund system. And then it is probably very reasonable that the legislative proposals should also be dealt with in this Chamber as a package. There is the view of the Enhedslisten, which we do not agree with, that overall this package puts some municipalities at a disadvantage: the municipalities that have many long-term unemployed, many long-term sicknesses and no labour market that will receive those citizens. The Minister must admit that this is what I would like the Minister's comments on, because we do not agree on the general issues that each municipality has no influence or at least has a very, very small influence on whether there is a local labour market that can accept the long-term unemployed and long-term ill citizens, as there is now in the individual municipality, and that this does not improve employment opportunities. It does not, of course, in itself open up jobs in the local local labour market to increase the cost of transfer income for municipalities, which is, of course, the basic idea behind the restructuring of the reimbursement system. I guess the minister's gonna have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414193855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414193856	In my view, we should not take the employment effort as a starting point in the fact that there are municipal labour markets. After all, it is not the case that a municipality should only deal with the labour market within the municipality, and I think this is a first important premise. The second is that I simply disagree fundamentally with Enhedslisten and Mr. Finn Sørensen in that it does not make a difference what is happening at a job centre and that the results of the efforts made in the employment system are given in advance. I mean, it'd argue that you completely dropped it and just let go to see how it went. I even think that, and I think that there is quite clear evidence when we look at the many evaluations made by the many schemes that have been in the area of action making a difference. And the more it is based on the individual and the less one sits and looks down in the papers, tables, rules and regulations, the greater the chances of achieving what should be the point, namely to get people into work instead of being on public support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414193958	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194000	Fine. Then we extend it to the regional labour market. It only makes it even more clear how little influence the municipality has on the development of the labour market and its ability to accept long-term and long-term ill people. Those are framework conditions. The reality that I would like the Minister to relate to is that which we are starting from. And then we just draw the very logical follow-up that the opportunities for job creation require that there are some jobs that are not increased by the financial punishment of the municipalities. I would just like to say to the Minister: we have not questioned the importance of what is going on at the job centre. Of course it is. But what is happening at the job centre does not in itself increase employment opportunities; it does not increase the number of jobs. And that is, of course, the basic error in all that thinking. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194056	Well, again, I'd like to say that we're probably not gonna agree with sir. Finn Sørensen's view, as expressed here from the platform, that there is no work to be done. Fortunately, more and more Danes are getting into employment, among others. As a result of the many initiatives taken in the form of reforms and growth packages, etc. during this government period. What just wonders is that when we then deal with the proposal on the compensation system, which is intended precisely to take account of differences between municipalities and which, of course, have a number of the parameters that Mr. Finn Sørensen talks about, built into it, and needs to be used to take into account that there are some differences • then Enhedslisten will not be in it. That is why I do not understand why we do not come to the same conclusion as the SF, which is that, regardless of what we think about the reform of employment, we should support this bill on compensatory adjustment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194145	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194200	I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194217	Thank you, President. I have to say that, since the rapporteur of the Left cannot be present, I have promised to read his speech to the House. The draft law we are now considering is in part the same draft law that has been tabled several times in the past, no later than 2008 and which concerns the amendment of the Act on Elections to the Folketing. Here it is proposed to supplement the existing four forms of arrangement with a new form of arrangement. Today it is the case that the parties can choose between party-listing, where party-votes belong to candidates in order; circle-setting, where the party-votes belong to the candidate of the circle; side-ordered, alphabetical order in which the votes of the circle are distributed according to personal votes in the circle; and nominated side-ordered, with a candidate for the circle at the top and the rest in alphabetical order. The option proposed today by the proposers is the so-called priority page list. This should enable the parties to set up a pari passu, but with the possibility of deciding for themselves the order of the party's candidates on the ballot form graphically. We in the Left are concerned that the proposal could mean, for example, that the very high-profile candidates in the parties would be even more profiled if the parties themselves were to decide on the order of nomination. The Left would very much hate to make it harder for the more unknown candidates than it already is today. We are also concerned that the new form of arrangement will create further confusion among the voters about how the Danish electoral system is actually linked. That is why the Left cannot immediately support the draft law as it now stands, but is looking forward to discussing matters in greater detail during the committee procedure, which will be dealt with by the usual rapporteur in this area. I would add that the Conservative People's Party tends to support the proposal, but their rapporteur cannot be present. The Conservative People's Party will take a final position along the way in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194433	A brief comment came from Mr. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194437	Now I know that there is a normal custom here in the Danish Parliament that no questions are asked when it is a rapporteur who reads on behalf of another rapporteur. But Mrs Tina Nedergaard has also been active in the Left for many years, so I will ask her anyway, because I think she can answer the question. When we dealt with this proposal six years ago, Mr. Erling Bonnesen that we in the Left wanted to go out and ask the hinterland before we could take a final position and that it would therefore have to be a while before we could re-examine this proposal. Now we in the Danish People's Party think that 6 years is a long time, so I would like to ask Mrs Tina Nedergaard: is the rapporteur aware that this process has been carried out in the back of the Left and has therefore asked the hinterland what they think of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194519	Thank you. The internal decision-making processes in the Left seem to me to be less relevant to what I am expressing here as a substitute for the rapporteur. But I can answer on behalf of the Group, and it is the Confederal Group of the European United Left that determines the policy, whatever process we may have had in our party. And there I can say that, as I said in the speech I read, the parliamentary group is not totally opposed and totally opposed to the right of other parties or, possibly, of our own party to decide exactly how they wish to put up their candidates. We just have that consideration and I have to say that I can at least recognize it from the hinterland and from many of the choices I have been through that many voters are very doubtful about and uncertain about what it is that determines who is elected. And I must also say that it is not without reason that I mention it, because there have been discussions almost after every parliamentary election about why one of them had been elected to the Folketing rather than the other in one party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194628	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I regret that I was ensnared by her eagerness to get on the platform, so I forgot that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior should have spoken first. That is why I now give him the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194647	It is never a shame to speak after Mrs Tina Nedergaard, so I am happy to do so today. But this is a legislative proposal that is not the first time we have been presented in this Chamber. It has been put forward three times in the past, even by my own party, the Radical Left, under the previous government. The proposal is about the introduction of a new form of representation for the parliamentary elections, a priority side-by-side arrangement, and this means that the parties can choose the order of the candidates on the ballot. As the rules are today, only which candidate should be first on the ballot box can be determined by a party setting out the agenda. The other candidates are then listed in alphabetical order. There are positive tactics in the draft law, which allows the parties to decide for themselves how candidates should be presented on the ballot paper, and this, as you know, is precisely a proposal that has also grown in the radical seas. That is why, of course, we could expect the matter to be straightforward, because we can only be in favour of a proposal that we ourselves have put forward in the past. However, the government believes that it is far too late, compared to how close we are to a parliamentary election, which will have to be held by September at the latest. It is simply not appropriate to amend the electoral law so close to an election. The local party associations have in many cases already held pre-election meetings, where the candidates for the parliamentary elections are also far away in the appointment of which of their candidates should be listed in which circles and who should possibly be nominated and put at the top of the ballot. Changes to the rules for the establishment should therefore be adopted in sufficient time to allow local authorities to adapt to the new opportunities, and the government cannot therefore support the draft law at this stage, but we would like to help look at it again after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194834	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194836	I am glad that the Minister will be able to take another look at this after a parliamentary election. I would just like to point out that this legal text states that it will not enter into force until 1 July 2015. Now no one knows when the next parliamentary election will come, but it could be that it was before, so any law would not apply to the next parliamentary election. And that is only an opportunity that we want to give to the parties. I am surprised that the Radicals do not support it any more at this stage, because it is not just a proposal on which the Radicals have co-sponsored it. No, it is actually a proposal that the Radicals themselves invented by Mrs Lone Dybkjær and Mrs Margrethe Vestager in her time, and the Danish People's Party and also the SF have later co-sponsored the proposal. So we are a little surprised that the Minister does not give full support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194928	After all, there will be a radical rapporteur later. But what I want to say on behalf of the government is that we do not think it is appropriate to change the electoral rules so close to the end of a parliamentary term. But that does not mean that we are rejecting the proposal. It just means we think the timing is bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194947	Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414194948	In relation to timing, I would like to know whether the Minister cannot confirm that, when we evaluated other electoral rules, election laws, municipal electoral law, etc. earlier this year, of course, the Minister called for this to be brought in as well. So it's not something that just came here in April.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195009	As I said, these are well-known ideas, as I mentioned in my speech. But now the situation is that we are standing here with a bill at the request of the Danish People's Party, and we think it would be inappropriate to amend the electoral law so close to the end of a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195027	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195029	Now it is the case that the term of office will not end for five months. So I want to know whether the Minister can tell us whether it is not enough time, or whether it is because the Minister has knowledge that the term of office will end before the 5 months, because the Prime Minister will untimely print on the "no', I do not want to use that cliché because the Prime Minister is going to print the parliamentary elections untimely.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195056	I have absolutely no reason to believe that. What this is all about is • and that is how I think most parties are working on • that the candidate lists are now there have been general meetings all around the place, and I guess there are also these days. And if you had to use such a form of arrangement, it would mean for the parties that you would have to go through it again. That is why we do not think this is the right time to change the electoral law. This is not a rejection of the proposal. It's a refusal to look at it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195128	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195128-2	After all, it is in the draft law that the parties must decide for themselves whether they want to make use of the opportunity. So if they think it is too close to a parliamentary election to convene a new siting meeting where candidates are given priority, then the parties can just not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195149	But again: it is basically about whether you think it is important that the rules of the game of a choice are in place in good time before elections are held. And there we think it is too late in the parliamentary term to change the electoral law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195202	Thank you, Minister. Then we go back to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Simon Kollerup, who speaks for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195210	The proposal from the Danish People's Party suggests that we should have another form of standing for parliamentary elections in addition to the four existing forms of arrangement we have today. The proposal from the Danish People's Party is not only about changing the electoral rules; it is also about adjusting the fine mechanics of Danish democracy. I fully agree with the considerations raised by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior that such a change should be discussed thoroughly before it is taken and that it should not happen as it is now when the proposal comes at 5 minutes in closing time. With an election just around the corner, most parties have also held their sit-down meetings as has been the case. Therefore, I do not think it would be appropriate for us to start changing these rules now. If we are to change the layouts, we must, of course, have a really thorough account of the consequences that the concrete shape of it will have before we can decide on it. For this reason, I also believe that it would have been more obvious if the Danish People's Party, for example, were to do so. had brought this proposal to the attention of the Parliamentary Assembly, in that we were discussing the modernisation of electoral legislation so that we could have discussed the proposal further in good time. So I agree this is gonna be too late. That is why the Socialists cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195341	A brief comment from Mr. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195344	But I must point out once again, also to the Socialist rapporteur, that the Danish People's Party, when we drafted the existing electoral law, urged the radical minister to bring this with us. Because we thought that was obvious, since there was now a radical Minister for the Interior and the proposal was actually also originally grown by the Radicals and invented by Mrs Lone Dybkjær and Mrs Margrethe Vestager. But the Minister did not want that. I am well aware that the Socialists have always been opposed to all the times we have discussed this. But now there is a specific question. Six years ago, of course, we who were not elected at the time cannot remember that, but we can read what was said, Mrs Lene Hansen said that the Socialists were open to setting up a committee to look at the various impact assessments of the electoral reform that had just been adopted at the time, including looking at the advantages and disadvantages of it. Are the Socialists still interested in sending it to committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195449	I just have to start by saying that we did not at least have a debate on a proposal from the Danish People's Party on this, while I was the municipal rapporteur. It comes now that we are very close to having to come in a parliamentary election before 15 September this year and most parties have already had their meeting. Well, let's just get it straight to the start. Having said that, I would like to say that this is, of course, a theme that is quite general for our democracy. It is about the way in which we set up our candidates, the way in which the parties can put up candidates, and it was obvious to look at it, for example. Parliament's Municipal Committee, where the rapporteur has also been sitting, and where there is the possibility of carrying out expert consultations and getting other assessments of what is possible for layouts. For there are certainly other options than the specific ones that are being dealt with here. I think it is obvious to look at this, and one could choose to do so if one nevertheless has to evaluate how the parliamentary elections have been conducted, that is, what is to be held this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195549	Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195551	This is voluntary, it's an offer to the parties that you can make this way. And it may well be that people in the party associations are saying that we have now had a sit-down this time, so we do not want to take advantage of it now. But they can do that next time. It's an offer. But I would like to ask the Socialists when the excuse is that we are close to an election: are no good proposals then for discussion? Should we postpone everything until after a parliamentary election? Because then we might as well get that parliamentary election now, that is, if you can just kick everything to the corner with an excuse that we're close to an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195631	No, but all the proposals that go in and tamper with the way we appoint candidates for just a parliamentary election and that come right here, at the eleventh hour before we go to an election, I think we owe it to the electorate to deal with in good time before there is a parliamentary election. Then we can have a proper debate on it, a thorough discussion, and very much under the auspices of the Municipal Committee, where there are opportunities, after a parliamentary election, to raise this debate, for example. through a hearing or by other means. So I am actually just saying: let us have a debate on this and let us also have a debate on other options for evaluating our electoral legislation. And you can do that well before the next election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195711	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I can understand that sir... Morten Marinus would like to share his speaking time so that he speaks both now and in the end as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195736	In the Danish People's Party we have on several occasions supported this proposal, both because it was the Radicals who tabled it and because we ourselves were co-sponsors of the Radical and Socialist People's Party with the support of LA as well. And, of course, we are sorry that today we are being told that it is a post office too late. After all, we think that good proposals should be adopted no matter when they come. It is an offer to the parties to be allowed to put up in an extra way beyond what is currently in the electoral law, so that one can prioritize one's side-lined layout so that the names are not in alphabetical order. Today it can be an advantage if you have a surname starting with A, and therefore it will be high in all the circles in which you are not a leading candidate, and we really think that is a little weird. There is something psychological about standing high on the ballot, and we really want to give the parties' associations the opportunity to decide for themselves the order of the leading candidates of the various circles. That is why we had actually hoped that the fourth time would be a good time, also because there were several parties that asked for a period of reflection back in 2008. We think that six years is enough time for reflection, but I understand that what has been achieved is that it will not be supported. At least that is what we heard from the Left, and I am, of course, sorry about that. I take note of what has been said, and then we can talk about it later. But so far I think we should at least look at whether there is no possibility of adopting the proposal, even if there is a parliamentary election just around the corner. I therefore think it is a pity that when we agree that the proposal is about something, it is voluntary for the parties to use • then to be kicked to the corner after a parliamentary election. In any case, the Danish People's Party had hoped for a slightly more warm reception of the proposal from the Minister in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195936	Thank you to the rapporteur and then we go to the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414195945	Thank you. With the bill here, L 158, tabled by the Danish People's Party, it will be possible to determine the order of the names of the ballot paper with the candidates nominated for the parliamentary elections when they are listed side by side. However, the candidate of the nomination must still be at the top of the ballot paper, but then the parties must be able to decide for themselves the order of the other candidates opposite today, when they are listed in alphabetical order. The bill has been tabled three times in the past, in 2006, 2007 and 2008, and with the support of the Radical Left. We still think that this is a good proposal because it allows for flexibility in how to want the names of the ballot paper to be put up when you have chosen a side-line. And there may be a lot of local concerns in the individual circles that can justify that need. It is proposed that the Act should enter into force for the parliamentary elections to be held on or after 1 July 2015. However, I have to disappoint the authors of the motion for a resolution on the grounds that we are very close to a parliamentary election. We don't know how close we are, but we don't think the time is right. If it had come something earlier, there would have been some time to have a proper discussion of it in the Municipal Committee and possibly to hold a hearing on it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the time that we all know it takes in the various party associations around to have these discussions about whether to use this option or not, and on the other hand, how to deal with it if you want to use it. This is something that takes time, and it is also something that deserves time to have that discussion around the associations. And we really think that this proposal deserves the time it takes. With those words, I would say that, as I said, we still think it is a sensible proposal and we will be positive to look at it after the parliamentary elections, that is. by 14 September 2015 at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200149	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200149-2	Thank you for your words, and I also acknowledge that we will have to look at it again after the parliamentary elections. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he agrees with her predecessor, Mrs Lone Dybkjær, who, the last time we discussed it, said that Radicals did not believe that the alphabetical layout was a democratic gift from heaven.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200210-2	I have already said, and I would like to do so again, that we think it is a sensible proposal to give it the opportunity. And then it will be up to the individual parties and associations to make use of it. So in this way we agree that this is a sensible proposal. We just think it's a really bad timing that it gets here so close to a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200232	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200241	As we have already heard, the draft law is an up-to-date resubmission of a proposal from 2008, on which the SF and the Radicals co-sponsored. In the SF, we still think it is a good idea to allow the parties to choose priority side-by-side positions without the candidates having to be in alphabetical order. We think it is good to shake up the system a little and perhaps provide new opportunities for good discussions in the political hinterlands. After all, those parties which do not think this is a good idea do not need to set up an alphabetical order of their own, but that is why other parties can be allowed to do so, as has already been said by the draftsman of the motion for a resolution. We think we can discuss whether it is wise for the proposal to come into force now on 1 July. It would be easy to wait until 1 October for the proposal to come into force so that all parties could have a process on an equal footing about it, as proposed in the proposal. But otherwise we in the SF have no problems with the proposal that has been put forward here and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200347	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200403	Thank you. Well, Enhedslisten doesn't see any problems in this proposal either. Well, the electoral law is already very flexible. The parties may choose a list of political parties in which the votes of the parties belong to the candidates in the order in which they appear on the list. That's the model that Enhedslisten prefers. We think it is most democratic; we can hold long-haired debates on that. Other parties believe that another way of doing this is more democratic, and that is, for example, more democratic. the circle configuration, where the votes of the circle belong to the candidate of the circle; it is the side-lined table in alphabetical order; and it is a so-called nominated side-ordered table, i.e. with a circuit candidate at the top and then the rest in alphabetical order. These are the four options already available in the electoral law. We simply cannot see the problem by extending it with a fifth option such as the one being proposed here. Frankly, we believe that the voters are smart enough to be able to figure it out. If they can see through those four models it takes a little practice but if you can, you can see through it too, even if there's a fifth one. I would just like to deal with the arguments that are being put forward: it is too close to a parliamentary election. Well, if you would like to do what you have always meant, at least on the part of the Radicals, then you could table a small amendment which said something about when it should come into force, so that you were not so close to a parliamentary election that no one knows how close we are to the European Parliament except perhaps a single person or a few. So I don't think that's an argument. Then there is this: we need to have a thorough discussion. Yeah, it's got to be said that it's been thorough. Ever since 2007, this has been discussed, and it does not sound as if anyone is really in doubt about what they think about it. That's not the problem. Could not the Social Democrats and the Radicals just say it plainly: we disagree on this? So this time it was the Social Democrats' turn to be right. There should, like, be a concession to those who could match the many concessions that have been made to the Radicals in the form of a gross unemployment benefit reform, a gross pre-retirement reform, the signing into the government base, the continuation of the economic policy of the government of the VK, the abandonment of plans to actually support chain responsibility so that we could manage all this social dumping. It is clear that the Socialists must have some concessions which, like all the concessions that have been made to the Radicals and here was one. You could just say that straight out. We support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200647	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200652	With my knowledge of how such things will happen in the individual associations, if you implement this proposal, it will be something that takes time. There will, of course, be some discussions and also some ambiguities that you have to go through before you come up with a final law on this, also about authorisation: who is it that is empowered to decide what this ballot should look like? Is it the individual circle? Is that the big crowd? Is it at central level? What about when there are disagreements? It's not like it's simple. There may also be some logistics in relation to when to submit these things, and in relation to the fact that it may be more difficult to make these ballot papers because a great many of them are simply different. So I actually think that as a good democrat I would like to ask Mr. Finn Sørensen, if not also he thinks that it deserves some time and a discussion here in the Danish Parliament, but also in the individual associations, and that it is just really hard to reach when you are close to a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200749	Now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament, we have plenty of time to discuss matters here. We also have time to go home to our hinterland. I think the Radicals must have done that at some point, because if you are in favour of it in principle, you have probably stuck a finger in the back. Then, according to the Rules of Procedure, we will have a time for legislative proposals and amendments to be dealt with if we believe that there is some ambiguity in it. And I also assume that it must be regulated according to the same principles as the electoral law, so there is probably not so much confusion. However, if there is, there is time to make some amendments on when it will come into force. So I guess it's just to roll up your sleeves if you still think it's a good idea and then come up with those amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200833	Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200835	Now, in fact, I am thinking most of the time that we need in the associations and parties to discuss how to manage it here in practice and, to a lesser extent, to have time in this Chamber. Now I do not know the Enhedslisten's cadence in terms of setting up, when the meetings are being held, etc., but I know that the Radical Left and other parties have come a long way in this and have held sit-downs and discussed these things and decided on them. So I don't want to, and I really don't think it would be fair either, have to go through this process at such short notice. That is, of course, our reason for not supporting the proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200910	But then the rapporteur has not really listened when I opened up an opportunity, namely that, if you would like, you could just table an amendment so that you made sure that this does not enter into force in the parliamentary elections that we are about to hold. The Danish People's Party will probably be sad about that, but on the other hand I think they would also be a little proud and happy that they even got through with it and that we could finally solve this problem. Then we would also avoid having to repeat the whole debate once we had that parliamentary election and the next session.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200938	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414200946	In some parties and for some people, it seems to be an advantage that one is as high on the party's list of entries as possible, even if no other privileges are attached to it than the graphical layout itself, that one is higher than one's fellow candidates from the same party. That there is the advantage seen by the creative attempts being made around the country to change its baptism name to get higher on the list. In fact, I think I've let myself tell you that the first person to take advantage of such an attempt was a radical one. It was said to have been Jens Bilgrav-Nielsen who added a dash between Bilgrav and Nielsen in order to get a b as the initial letter and thus get high on the list of Radicals. There are also people here in the Danish Parliament who have suddenly got a hyphen in their name because they then get further up on the list, and you have also heard of people who have looped their surname and now only use their middle name on the list at least because their middle name has an initial letter starting earlier in the alphabet than their last name. And it is a pity for people, I think, that in this way they should make a leap to get higher on the list in order to live out the dream of coming to parliament. Imagine that you have to change your name completely to make that dream come true. We cannot demand this from people. I also think we have to say that it would be better for democracy, and for all reasonable reasons, if people, instead of having a greater chance, because they happen to have been born with a particular name or by baptism, were given the little extra chance of coming into the Folketing, because the party considered that they should be higher on the list than another person. That is why we support this bill from the Danish People's Party, and we will do so after the elections. The excuse that you cannot vote for it, because it is too close to a parliamentary election, I think is a bad excuse. It may be that there will be a parliamentary election in five months' time, so there is plenty of time for the parties to be able to hold a new sitting. And if they don't want it, they can just leave it and set it up as before. This is an offer that you can do something else as a party if you want. It is not a coercive measure to do something else. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414201230	Thank you. Then I can understand that sir... Morten Marinus would like to finish off if anything new can be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414201250	I was not aware that there was a demand for something new to be said every time you came up here; I think we could save a lot of days in here if we left it in force. The President may confirm this.' I am grateful for the statements made in connection with the proposal, and I am also pleased with the support expressed by many parties. I thought it was nice to hear both Enhedslisten's and LA's spokesperson. They were both well-founded, well-documented and also very humorous, so thank you for that. You are right: why is it that this proposal cannot be adopted now, even though in principle we are perhaps close to a parliamentary election? If you think the proposal is so good, why can we not give the parties a voluntary, extra, fifth opportunity for how they are going to set up? But I can reassure the people and the honourable Members in this Chamber that this will not be the last time we make this proposal. We take a fifth time after a parliamentary election, and then we assume that there will be joint support from all parties, because it sounds as if it is just a matter of time and that we have to move to the right side of a parliamentary election before it can be adopted here. However, should there be any interest in it in the governing parties, we would be happy to accept the proposal from the Enhedslist that we can table amendments on when the proposal can enter into force. However, if we still believe that after the last six years, we have not had enough talk with the hinterland about the things contained in the proposal, then we can wait until after a parliamentary election to finally make the decision. Then we'll see if it won't be the fifth time that's lucky.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414201424	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors and to all the rapporteurs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414201441	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414201508	Today's last proposal is a proposal for a parliamentary decision to increase the accountability of council members and municipal leaders in serious failures in cases of child abuse and neglect. With the proposal, the proposers will require the government to submit a draft law under which the State administration must be able to issue fines to the responsible members of the municipal council and then the municipal council in each case must decide whether the case should have an impact on the civil servants responsible. I would like to start by saying that the government obviously fully agrees with the proposers that cases of child abuse and neglect are very serious and that there is a need for municipalities to respond both quickly and decisively in such cases. Unfortunately, there have been a number of unfortunate examples in which municipalities have not fulfilled that task well enough. This has had tragic consequences for the children involved. I am not going to highlight one case rather than the other, but I would have liked to have been each and every one in addition. It has, of course, given the opportunity to consider whether the rules that we already have in this area are good enough, and it also gives reason to consider whether the initiatives proposed by the proposers would improve the local responsibility in this area. The last thing I'm not convinced they would. The municipalities are responsible, in accordance with the applicable rules of the Service Act, for ensuring that the necessary steps are taken in the children's cases we are talking about. There are, among other things: on the basis of the cases we know from the media, a number of specific initiatives have already been launched in the field of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which will support the municipalities' case management in relation to vulnerable children and young people. Among other things: As part of the package of attacks, a duty has been laid down for the municipal council to prepare written preparations for the prevention, early detection and treatment of cases of abuse against children and young people. A special task force has also been set up which offers help to strengthen the procedures in the municipalities, and 30 million have been allocated. kr. annual training of staff in the field of children and young people. In addition, the Ankestyrelsen conducts practical studies aimed at ensuring the coordination of practices across municipalities. There is also the possibility, in accordance with the rules in force in the law on the administration of municipalities, of responding to both responsible municipal managers and responsible municipal councillors. If we then look at the proposal itself here, it appears that after the first part of the proposal it will be the case that the State administration should have the opportunity to impose fines on municipal councillors. The State administration supervises the compliance of municipalities with the legislation applicable to public authorities. The State administration does not have to decide whether the municipality's decisions are reasonable or appropriate or ask questions about the exercise of discretion, as long as the discretion is exercised within the framework laid down by law. The State administration itself decides whether there are sufficient grounds for carrying out an oversight case. The State administration may impose periodic penalty payments on responsible members of the municipal council under the law if the municipal council fails to carry out an act which it is legally obliged to carry out. Consequently, periodic penalty payments are intended to impose an obligation to act and cannot be used as a penalty for any alleged infringement of the law. The State administration will be able to apply periodic penalty payments to a municipal council which does not take the necessary steps in a case of child abuse and neglect. In addition, a municipal councillor guilty of serious misconduct may be fined in court on the basis of the law on the administration of the municipalities. It is the prosecution that assesses whether an indictment is to be made, with due regard for the guarantees of legal certainty which, moreover, apply to the treatment of criminal proceedings. That is the difference which, in the view of the government, is reassuring. Allow me to remind you that until 2004 it was a requirement that there should be an application for redress from the supervisory authority, that is, the current state administration, in order for the prosecution to be able to prosecute under that provision. However, the plea was dismissed by a unanimous Parliament, including the following: in order to prevent the Authority from carrying out an assessment which the Public Prosecutor is in a better position to carry out. Prior to the amendment of the law, a thorough committee work was carried out on insight into the municipal administration. In this light, it is still the Government's view that it is not appropriate for an administrative authority such as the State Administration to impose fines as a penalty, unless there are very specific reasons and, in the view of the government, such special reasons do not apply where the same members of the municipal council can already be fined in the courts, according to the legal situation in force. The second part of the proposal concerns the municipal council's position on the consequences of employment law. It is the municipal council that is responsible for all the cases dealt with in the municipality, including the children's cases that this resolution is about. The same applies to the possible consequences of recruitment which must be drawn from those cases. Because the municipal council is responsible, it is also the municipal council that decides how the administration should be organised. The municipal council therefore has the highest responsibility for the recruitment and dismissal of staff and oversees the administration. It is also the responsibility of the municipal council to act if unlawful conduct is found in the administration. The fact that the municipal council is responsible for all the cases in the municipality does not mean that the municipal council itself has to decide on all the cases. To a large extent, the municipal council leaves both proceedings and decisions to committees and administration, and that is what it has to be if a municipality is to function. This also applies to staff cases. Such cases may, but should not normally be dealt with by the municipal council. The municipal council may reserve the right to decide for itself on certain types of staff cases, but only a few decisions are normally considered to be of such far-reaching importance to the municipality that they must always be dealt with in the municipal council. This is true, for example. the recruitment and dismissal of municipal directors and technical directors. What is crucial is not that the consequences of employment in children's cases should be drawn by a decision of the municipal council, but that the right consequences should be drawn and that this should be done under the responsibility of the municipal council. It is therefore the Government's view that there is no need to impose an obligation on the municipal council to make an explicit decision in each case as to whether to draw on the consequences of employment law in relation to the municipal managers. In the context of the responsibility of a municipal council, it is essential to be aware that any member of the municipal council can use his so-called right of initiative to raise a case in the municipal council. This applies regardless of whether the matter is already being dealt with in a committee or in the administration, and regardless of what the matter is, as long as it is a municipal matter. Any member of the municipal council will thus be able to ensure, by using his right of initiative, that questions of possible employment consequences in children's cases are placed on the agenda of the municipal council if he considers this to be appropriate. As I have already mentioned, the municipalities must, of course, react quickly and decisively in cases involving child abuse and neglect. No one can disagree with that. However, it is the government's view that with the current rules in this area and the initiatives that have been taken, there are sufficient tools that can be used against municipal and municipal councillors who do not have the focus that needs to be demanded in such serious and intrusive cases. The initiatives contained in the proposed proposal will not, in the best of the opinion of the government, further help to avoid future cases of serious failure in cases of child abuse and neglect or to prevent the same. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202324	Mrs Karin Nødgaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202326	Thank you to the Minister for a very fine and full account of what the framework is really like. I appreciate the fact that you have really gotten involved in this. It is a little strange that I am faced with another minister than I usually do; it is usually the Minister for Social Affairs. But it's okay. But I would really like to know if the Minister can tell me how many cases there have been, where all the possibilities that the Minister has mentioned in this area have been used, so that we can understand what the facts are in this area. As far as I know, little has actually happened in relation to the two areas that we have outlined in our proposal. And I understand from the Minister that the municipalities must react quickly and decisively. It is the choice of words that is used. But that has not been the case, because we have seen that children have been the victims of neglect and abuse for years. So I would like to have some more figures on the table in relation to how it has actually been practiced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202427	We can, of course, give a statistical account of what is possible to produce and which may be desired, but that is true, and I do not think that it is necessarily necessary to see as a sign of crisis that the fact that municipal councillors are convicted in the courts for having disregarded their responsibilities or committed illegal misconduct is, fortunately, rare. And I really think we should be happy about that. What then is the question, and what is the discussion, is: if we tightened up the areas referred to here, in addition to the fact that what I explained would shift some legal balance, which we have changed in the past and even in agreement in the Folketing, there is reason to believe that this will lead to faster and more resolute action or better prevention? There it is, then, I say that we cannot really see that. In other words, even if measures could be taken which would result in more municipal councillors being fined in the courts, it would be tragic, if I may say so. And that is why our interest has gathered together, among other things. with the so-called abuse package, to look at what we can do to prevent cases from coming. And that is really what this is all about: ensuring that municipal councillors are aware of their responsibilities and resolve these cases even before it becomes a serious failure to care.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202549	Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202549-2	Yes, but there is no doubt that it is tragic cases that have been committed. Well, it's one of the most horrible things you could possibly imagine, that there are some people who really should be closest to a child but who actually choose to abuse the child. And that is why I think the Minister might be a little out of the question here. Because what I'm thinking about in relation to this isn't that I want to be after someone as such, either municipality or management, or who can now be employed in the municipality. This is a matter of preventing something. Does the Minister not think that if some of the points that we have made in our proposals were to be clarified, we could actually avoid such matters arising in the future? And does the Minister not also believe that we actually owe it to the victims who have been living a life of abuse and neglect for years now, that we are actually doing a little more about it? Because I am fully aware of how it is that I myself have been involved in making abuse packages, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202644	Well, I quite share the seriousness with which Mrs Karin Nødgaard looks at these cases. However, I do not believe, and the government does not believe, that it is essential for us to avoid more such cases, whether it is the state administration or it is the courts that impose fines on municipal councillors if they commit major failures in the care of their duties. What we believe is that with the measures we have taken, which is a tightening-up, among other things. a duty for the municipal council to prepare a written preparedness for the prevention, early detection and treatment of cases of abuse against children and young people, a special task force which offers help to strengthen the proceedings in the municipalities, and 30 million. kr. Every year for further training of staff in the field of children and young people as well as the practical study carried out by the Ankestyrelsen on the area • we really have an opportunity to avoid getting these cases. However, we do not believe that the measures presented here will lead to fewer children's cases, and that is why we think we should focus on what could have that effect instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202748	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and it is first the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414202806	Thank you very much. In fact, I did not take up my rapporteur's speech here because I think that the Minister has actually explained very well the current rules and also the motion for a resolution which has been very sympathetic to the Danish People's Party. I would like to say to the authors of the motion that we in the Left fully share the concern that every case in the municipalities should be dealt with quickly enough and effectively when it comes to attacks on children and young people. On the other hand, it has to be said that the parties of the Folketing have contributed. I also know that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karin Nødgaard, has himself contributed to the fact that, to the extent that we, as a liberal party, have helped to impose rapid reactions and sanctions on the municipalities. That's what we've agreed to. To the second part of the proposal, which relates to the fact that the Danish Parliament has to instruct the municipal council to decide on possible employment consequences for senior employees, I would say that it goes further than the Left wishes to go in relation to municipal autonomy. Because if we end up in a situation where we at Christiansborg not only interfere in the framework of what we do with great pleasure and also with some justification, we can say, because that is what we are set up in the world for but also interfere in what specific punishment, sanction or other neglect, some kind of failure, should have consequences in terms of work in the individual municipality, then we believe that we are beginning to approach, that we might just as well have some government-owned self-owned institutions instead of municipalities. It is in the view of the Left that elected representatives in the municipalities have their own legitimacy as elected representatives, just as we at Christiansborg have, and that it is, of course, sanctioned in the same way every four years in the elections as it is here or with them, it is precisely every four years that we are then at least some who gain experience here in every single election, namely that the electorate can also see what difference one has made politically and possibly did not make. However, I would like to say to the proposers that we share the desire to focus on this issue. We share the ambitions which also form the basis of the common agreements that have been reached: that we must not see any more of the really serious matters which, unfortunately, we have also seen rolled out in the press in the most cruel way, against those children. Finally, I should like to say without knowing, because I do not have any statistics on the fact that I have the feeling that a number of municipalities have actually learnt from the very, very bad experiences that have been gained and that the municipalities have also listened to the consensus that has existed in the Folketing that action must be taken more quickly and more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203126	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment for the moment. Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203132	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the Left has sympathy for some of the ideas we have made with regard to the proposal. The rapporteur mentioned something in four years' time and then something can be done. I just think that four years is almost a lifetime for a child who is subjected to abuse, so I may not really be able to use that statement for so much. In relation to the municipal autonomy, the Danish People's Party also has a great understanding of it. I just think that there are some things here that have been so alarmingly mad for many years, when we have seen these massive neglects that have been going on. Some municipalities do well in this area, but there are major problems elsewhere, and so I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that the rules outlined by the Minister today should not actually have been applied in relation to many of the cases we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203231	In general, it may be said that the impression is so little that it is not always that the sanctions that have been imposed from in here with a view to precisely having a preventive effect. So sanctions can have a preventive effect, otherwise there was no need to punish offences. But it is also because responsibility may be very difficult to place with the individual municipal politician, because this also presupposes that it comes to their knowledge and comes to their knowledge quickly. And I have to say that I have not been on the Social Affairs Committee long enough to be able to put my head on the block and say that there is at least a mayor there, a municipal politician there or a top executive in that municipality who should have been sanctioned. I believe that some steps have been taken by Christiansborg to highlight the need for rapid action. And only because of the second part of the resolution would we not be able to support it, because the employment consequences for people employed in the municipalities must be a municipal matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203343	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203346	It is a good thing that the rapporteur says that the Committee on Social Affairs has not been sitting so long. I would say that I think, in fact, that we do not need to sit in the Committee on Social Affairs or just at Christiansborg to be familiar with the terrible cases which, after all, rolled over the television screens for a few years, when one case after another popped up, and I just think that we have an obligation in here where we have the opportunity to do something to ensure that children for years do not have to live under such pitiful conditions as have been the case. However, does Mrs Tina Nedergaard think that we have fully adequate measures today, that they are being adequately applied and that we will not see similar cases coming forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203429	No, I'm afraid I think there's a risk of that. I just do not think we can avoid some being so disgusting and disgusting to their children that it actually completely destroys the lives of those children, because we are offering local politicians an opportunity for an increased fine. I simply do not believe that. I believe that in all normally functioning people, including municipal politicians, case managers, managers in the municipalities, there is basically a desire and a need to show that we are aware of some atrocities that have to be stopped. I would just like to say that when I referred to the fact that I have not been in the Committee on Social Affairs for so long, it is because I do not know whether the Committee on Social Affairs has been informed of the specific cases in the course of its deliberations. I only know them from the press. I think I've been long enough at Christiansborg to know that when you only know a press case, you should probably be a little careful to say who is the scapegoat in something as complicated as this one is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203539	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to this rapporteur, so we will continue to speak. The next rapporteur is Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414203550	Thank you. We have all heard and read about the unfortunate and terrible cases of child neglect. I have to say that there is nothing that makes me sadder as a Social Democrat, but also as a child and family rapporteur and as a mother, than to hear of some children being abandoned and not getting the safe and stable upbringing that they are entitled to and should have. But then, when we as a society fail, it is a double failure. We simply cannot offer that to children, and that is why, as a society, we must be much better at preventing caring failure. In recent years, therefore, significant and significant steps have been taken to improve the performance of vulnerable children and young people. With the child's reform, there was a serious focus on the legal certainty and best interests of the individual child rather than those of the parents and the municipality. Subsequently, the Social Democrats have not been pale to build on the child's reform. After the change of government, there are among others: have been amended to the rules on state reimbursement, so that particularly small poor municipalities are not left alone with the cost of placing very large children's flocks. However, we have also gone a step further in recognising that the help given to children and families has not been good enough. We have implemented the package of abuses, as the Minister mentioned earlier, aimed at preventing abuse and ensuring stronger action for the children and young people who have been subjected to violence. With the supervisory reform, we have taken important steps to ensure more professional supervision and better quality at placement sites, accommodation facilities and other social services for the most vulnerable children and young people. Finally, we have set the social 2020 targets, and several of these objectives are specifically about helping vulnerable children and young people. Here I have mentioned some of our initiatives, but I can mention several. Because, as I said, this is an area of heart blood for us Social Democrats. But I must also make a few comments on the motion for a resolution. We fully agree with the intention behind the proposal. The big question then is whether the proposed changes will work as intended. We don't think so. On the first part of the motion for a resolution and the situation in which a municipality deliberately fails to comply with the law, I would say that today it is a matter for municipal supervision in the State Administrations which can ultimately provide daily penalty payments if the critical conditions are not put in order. I am pleased that the state administration, already as the rules are today, can impose periodic penalty payments on responsible members of a municipal council if they fail to carry out an act which they are obliged to carry out under the law. That's good. It is also good that the purpose of the fines is for action to be taken subsequently in the municipality concerned, for a decision to be taken or for the right action to be taken. Similarly, it must also be the case today that a municipal councillor guilty of serious misconduct may be fined in court. To the second part of the resolution, I would like to say that I think it is important to point out that if and when recruitment consequences are to be drawn as a result of a given child case, it always happens under the responsibility of the municipal council. In other words, who is responsible is very clear in our municipal democracy. Another factor that can also be attributed to our municipal democracy is the right of every municipal council member to raise a matter in the municipal council. This means, of course, that as a Council member you can always force an item on the agenda to a city council meeting, including in matters of recruitment. To sum up: my party and I are very concerned about the area, but we do not believe that the tools in the proposal are the right ones and therefore we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204008	Thank you. There is one for a brief remark. Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204013	Thank you. Well, then, I acknowledge that the Socialists do not think that the tools are right in this proposal, but I would really like Mrs Skovsby to tell me now what will happen in the future in relation to this. Because I am well aware that these initiatives have been taken. The Danish People's Party has itself been involved in the reforms and agreements that have been in this area. However, the rapporteur also says that it is important that something should be done in the municipalities. What, then, is going to happen in the municipalities so that in future we will not experience this huge number or the extreme extent of neglect that has been in the cases we know about? The minister's talking about these things that we've gotten done... a task force and stuff like that. Does the rapporteur think that this is sufficient, or does the rapporteur have any good ideas about what we can do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204116	Yes, there are very many different initiatives that we have taken together in this Parliament. I do not think we should draw up an initiative and say that it can solve everything. It is a question of continuing the work that we also have in the Social Affairs Committee, where we have had some closed hearings. We have focused on the child's reform, which we all agree is very good legislation, and we want it to work in the municipalities. We have a common focus on this, and I think that we should continue to focus our attention on this across the parties, so that we get the preventive initiatives to work and so that we get the many initiatives we have taken and the initiatives that we will probably also take in the future to work together and have them coordinated so that they prevent these cases from occurring and that there will be serious failures in the municipalities afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204217	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204218	Thank you. Well, I really think that what the rapporteur says sounds very good, but I really do not think that anything concrete is coming on the table, other than that we are holding some hearings, doing some things and so on. But is the rapporteur so sure that we have actually achieved our goal in relation to what we can do from in here, so we have to say now that it is up to the municipalities to deal with it both in relation to the rules that are there and in relation to ensuring that some of these matters do not suddenly arise, where we see this massive neglect of both larger and smaller sibling flocks, and where we can also see that there has actually been a response from the network? it can be neighbours, it can be teachers etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204301	On the question of whether we have achieved our goal, the answer is: No, we have not achieved our goal. As long as there are these kinds of things that shake us all, we are certainly not in the finish line. Have the municipalities improved? was asked about before. Well, I think the municipalities have improved, too. We can also hear from KL that they go in and advise, and they know the specific cases where action is taking place. So we'll be better together. But this thinking that we can do one thing or that we can just do one thing is not the way to go. We need to continue the work that we have in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment to have a global focus on how to prevent and how to use many different initiatives to achieve objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204354	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. I shall continue in the rapporteur's line, in which it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karin Nødgaard. I understand that the rapporteur for the proposers shares his speaking time, so that is 5 minutes now and 5 minutes later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204412	The Danish People's Party is aware that today there is a wording which states that in municipalities where the legislation is not complied with, there may be the possibility of making decisions on periodic penalty payments for municipal councillors. The only problem is that it hasn't happened in these many terrible cases we know about. Furthermore, the Danish People's Party also wanted to clarify with this proposal that there should also be an opportunity to draw some employment consequences towards the responsible municipal leaders. For the Danish People's Party, it is extremely important that we do not just accept criticism of the situation and that local authorities complain when the damage has been done through years of abuse of children. This is not enough for the children and young people who have had their lives ruined more or less because they have not done so in time. I very much hope that this debate will be held here in the Folketing and in the government with the view that something must be done, and perhaps I am hearing a little bit about it, so that it is noticeable that there are improvements in this area, so that we can see that there is both justice and legal certainty. Then I would like to say that bringing children into the world is probably one of the most life-affirming things I can think of. Giving life and following this life from infancy and up through the years to young people and teenagers and the experience when children move from the nest and create their own lives with family is part of the cycle of life. It's beautiful, and it's a gift for life. Most young people can look back on a childhood of care and love, not only from parents, but also from the network around them, for example. Grandparents. Or it could be some people you might not have biological ties to. In the beautiful psalm "Happy is the earth" says that the lineage is to follow the course of generations, and in this I actually think is that you bring something from former families and lead it on to future families in recognition that it is the right thing. Fortunately, this is the case in most families in today's Denmark. Despite many different family patterns and broken marriages, love for children remains intact, and the desire for them to be successful in life and in the life choices they make lies deep within most of us. Unfortunately, there are also families where children do not live this life, where love, security, care and warmth are part of everyday life, but a life of humiliation and abuse, neglect and lack of love from those who should be closest to giving it, namely the parents. Sometimes we cannot comprehend the reports that have emerged in recent years about careless children. It can be completely incomprehensible that people who have brought children into the world, children of their own flesh and blood, can be so, I would say bluntly, that they expose children to the worst possible things in their childhood and thus destroy their opportunities for a good life. I am not going to go into details today about the terrible things that have been going on, but just mentioning some city names such as Brønderslev, Tønder, Rebild gives associations that there has been something incredibly wrong in our welfare community with the supervisory and reporting obligations that we must each have as well as public authority, as a politician and as a network. It can be difficult to completely correct the fatal errors that have happened, but everything that can be done must be done. It is therefore also worrying to hear from the few, but actually very brave, victims who have chosen to stand up, that they do not believe that they have received or are given the desired support to move forward in life. When the Danish People's Party chooses today to take the debate on increased accountability in municipalities in case of serious failure in cases of abuse and neglect of children, it is to ensure that in future there will be increased focus on intervening in time. I would like to stress, as is also written in the comments on the proposal, that we do not want a hetz against municipalities, against municipal councillors, municipal managers and employees ■ rather the opposite. For the Danish People's Party, it is extremely important that all children have the best possible opportunities for a good life and that the authorities intervene quickly if child neglect is reported. The Danish People's Party believes that increased accountability can have a positive effect on the municipalities' attention and priority in cases of child failure. It is important for everyone's legal awareness that when the nearest ones fail, there are authorities that take over and react. When you are employed in positions at local government level, it is clear that increased responsibility follows in the same way as if you choose to stand as a candidate to sit in a municipal council and be elected. There is a responsibility and an obligation to deal with and keep an eye on matters relating to citizens and on the way in which work is carried out in the area, for example. in the social field and in the area of children and young people. Unfortunately, we have seen that this has not been the case and that, once cases have appeared, there has been no action as expected by municipal leaders and municipal councillors, even in cases where they have been aware of it, but have repeatedly deliberately failed to act. It is as unhappy as anything can be when we hear about children, where there actually was a network that reported neglect and abuse, but that years have passed since then, before it has been stopped years, which would have had invaluable and crucial importance for these children to have had a better life and not to have suffered further pain, trauma and suffering, both physically and psychologically.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204919	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Holger Vagn Jakobsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414204927	There are not many things that are more terrible than children who are subjected to abuse, and certainly not when it happens throughout childhood and without it being stopped. It is almost impossible to bear when it comes to the fact that the municipality, or mostly several municipalities, has been involved in a family several times, without it having really helped the children. In my view, therefore, there is no doubt that some municipalities have had good reason to review their approach to these matters. And I fully agree with the proposers that the municipalities simply have to react quickly in such cases. We believe that we must help the municipalities to do better, and that is why we are also strengthening the preparedness of the municipal authorities with regard to prevention, early detection, which is incredibly important, and dealing with cases of child abuse. We have set up a task force together, and to strengthen the procedure in the municipalities, 30 million have been set aside. kr. to retrain and further train the staff who sit and work on children's and young people's cases. On the other hand, we do not believe that by introducing more bureaucracy and more punishment we are actually benefiting the children's cause in these situations. The state administration can already impose periodic penalty payments on municipal politicians if the municipal council fails to carry out an act to which they are obliged, and therefore also if politicians actually fail in a serious child case. A municipal politician can also be punished, as has been the case, with fines for gross negligence on his part, but it is, if necessary, the prosecution that has to assess whether an indictment can be made, because there must also be legal certainty in such cases. In fact, we do not see the wisdom of the municipal council in each case automatically deciding whether to draw on the consequences of employment law for municipal managers. There is already room for that today. This has also happened in some of these cases, and the municipal council can take it up if you wish. In general, however, we are very sympathetic to the fact that the debate is being raised. We're worried too. We believe we can trace that some things are going better. We also believe that the politicians of the municipal councils and the employees of the state authorities have become extremely aware of these conditions. So we fully share the concern; we just don't think that these things are the right ones to raise the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205204	There is one more brief comment, and that is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205208	I agree with the rapporteur that there is no need for more bureaucracy in this area, but I do not really see why this should be so either. This is really just about reacting more quickly than has been done so far. We have seen these terrible matters, which we have been talking about for some time now, and so I would really like to hear the rapporteur, if it is not surprising to the rapporteur that we have not actually taken advantage of some of the opportunities that actually exist in order to prevent this from happening, so that it could have been ensured, given the tragedy there and the failure of a child, that perhaps within half or a whole year we could have reacted and done some things on the part of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205252	Yes, but I do believe that what is absolutely crucial here, I think, is also the rapporteur's view of prevention. That's how you get in the way before you do it. It can be said that what is unhappy in reality is if we are going to resort to these sanctions. Whether the rapporteur is right in saying that this has been done too little so far, I shall not be able to assess it, because I do not know the specific cases so well. But what matters is that it does not turn into a case. What is crucial is that we have set aside some funds so that we can train staff in this area. What is crucial is that in the municipalities too, resources are given priority for this procedure, because it is so important. What matters is that you talk to each other in the municipalities about these families moving from the municipality to the municipality. So I think that what really works here is the preventive action, and that is what we must help with and, of course, keep an eye on, that it will actually have the effect that we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205341	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205343	Well, there's no doubt about the preventive aspect, because I think we all agree on that. This is also what we, as social rapporteurs, are trying to do in our work, and I believe that those who are sitting and wearing a local political hat today are thinking a lot about it. But all we know is that suddenly the tragedy is happening, and that is where I really want us to talk today, because prevention is one thing and we should like to avoid the other; but now that we know it is happening, it is really just that I would like to hear the rapporteur, whether the rapporteur thinks that the possibilities that exist have been sufficiently used and, if so, whether the rapporteur is aware of whether the opportunities that actually exist today have been used to intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205427	In the Radical Left, we believe that if we continue to observe as many cases as we have witnessed in the press, we must do more for prevention purposes. However, I do not think we should do more than punish municipal politicians or go in and do retail management in employment law areas in the municipalities. Then it is because it is a preventive and training effort that needs to be done, and perhaps the resources that have been set aside in the municipalities are simply not enough. Then we have to do something more on that front. That will be our approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205459	Thank you, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen. There are no more brief comments. I have observed that a guest team has entered a balcony where guests are not usually present when the meeting is in progress. But I have a feeling that the M's for meeting doesn't light up in that part of the building, so if the guests are calm, it's gonna be okay. Thank you for that, and then we move on in the rapporteur's line. The next is Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205526	Thank you. The SF supports the aim of the motion for a resolution, namely to reduce the extent of failures, errors and shortcomings on the part of the authorities in cases involving children and young people who have been subjected to abuse or neglect. In fact, I think that applies to everyone who is here in the Chamber to discuss this proposal. However, we disagree with the means of doing so, i.e. fines for members of the municipal council. We do not agree with the funds proposed by the Danish People's Party. In the SF, we do not believe that the types of sanctions proposed are working. Threats of fines and dismissals are not working. Perhaps they would do so if the municipal council members and the municipal executives and the case workers were lazy and indifferent, but laziness is not the biggest problem for the majority of the case workers. The main problem is the accumulation of cases and the lack of opportunities for action in the social, psychological and economic matters with which they sit. It helps to delay the processing process and to create mistakes and, at worst, makes a municipality not intervene and does the social effort that a abandoned or exposed child needs. A study from 2014 from the Danish Social Advisor Association showed that 47 per cent. of the social workers interviewed find that economic considerations play a much more important role than social assessments when making decisions about placement. 54 per cent. experience that the focus on the economy slows down the implementation of measures to a large or some extent, and 62 per cent. believes that the economy plays a prominent role in discussing the solution of social problems in vulnerable families of children. These are some of the real problems that mean that children and young people who are victims of abuse or neglect are not offered the services they need. It is difficult to see how threats of fines to the municipal council and explicit discussion of the dismissal of managers can improve the economy. It is also reasonable to assume that, in the general cases of serious or repeated failure in cases of abuse or neglect of children and young people, there is in fact consideration and decision-making about the employment consequences. Having said that, unfortunately it is also the reality that in Denmark there have been some quite terrible cases of municipal failure and where reports have been ignored, and that is completely and completely unacceptable. Behind this discussion lies real children and young people whose fates are sad and whose lives lie in ruins because the nearest adults and the system fail. SF just doesn't believe that threats of fines to local politicians will work. We believe that actions such as the assault package are the way forward and that requiring rapid response time when municipalities receive information, children's houses, early preventive action, guidance and networks, and not least funding, is the way forward. We would like to be involved in further work on this. SF cannot support the proposal as it stands, but we would like to sign for the efforts of the Danish People's Party. We are pleased that you are also aware of the problem and come up with solutions. Because despite good policy measures, such as: We are not in favour of the package of abuses in this area far from being the case. And although we politically disagree on the means of reducing errors in municipal procedures and ensuring the efforts of the most vulnerable children and young people in our society, we must continue to discuss how the system can improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205845	One has a brief comment to make. Mrs. Karin Nødgaard, DF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414205849	Well, thank you to the rapporteur for the comments that have been made about what we have done together, I really appreciate them. I thought that I strongly pointed out in my speech that the Danish People's Party does not go after certain employee groups or something. I have great respect for what the case workers are doing, and I am also aware of the investigation and of the pressure and so on. But could the rapporteur not then say what we have to do for example? to ease their workload and reduce the number of errors, as the rapporteur also mentioned, that we are aware of what is happening in this area when matters are being dealt with? That was one part of it. The second part is that the rapporteur uses the word 'threats'. Well, that's not at all how I've been thinking it when I made this proposal. It was actually intended that, when we make such a proposal, perhaps some groups in the municipalities are impressed with the fact that there is just something here that they need to be really aware of, i.e. that they are sorry, I say it doesn't have to sit and sleep in class. In fact, I believe that this is what has been done in some municipalities in relation to those cases, because, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we know that something has actually been reported about some of the families of children who have been through these terrible cases, without really happening for years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210013	I'll try to start with the last. There is no doubt that in some places people have slept. In my own neighbouring municipality, Rebild, there has been a terrible case, in Tønder there have been terrible cases, in Brønderslev, so we can see things. But I think we should be careful about pinpointing certain case officers. I believe that the exact amount of heavy matters that the case workers are dealing with in the field of children's affairs is a problem. SF has previously made proposals that there should be a maximum. on 30 children's cases at a time per year. Caseworker. That seems to us to be the way forward, because we know that this is also something that the Social Workers' Association itself has pointed out. We could also point out that in certain municipalities such as the United Kingdom, for example, there is an increase in the number of young people in the United Kingdom. in Holstebro Municipality is very good experience with family groups. We could point out that only the standards in today's institutions in the field of 0-6 years really matter when it comes to preventing these matters. There are a large number of proposals. When I have mentioned the funding in my speech, I also think it is important to point out that the zero growth in government, for example. The left is going to the parliamentary elections on, is a challenge in relation to these cases, and I think that at least the Danish People's Party should address that too, namely that the zero growth planned for the public sector will also have an impact on what the municipalities can promise in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210123	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210124	Then there was a little election campaign in it compared to the last one. But I am not really interested in that, because I think the rapporteur knows very well what the position of the Danish People's Party is in relation to public growth and so on. We shall take that after a choice, if it is that we have the opportunity to do so in the position we now have to get, however it may be. However, I would also like to point out to the rapporteur that this is not at all about going after any case-handling agents. I also thought I was trying to say that in my first speech, because I can see that there are some problems in relation to the quantity. But just as there is a big difference between the number of cases, there is also a big difference between the gravity of the cases you have. So it can therefore also be problematic to go in and say what it should be like. I got some good ideas for it. Does this mean that the SF is interested in us regrouping ourselves in the rapporteur's circle and looking more closely at what we can do in the future to improve this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210216	Well, SF is very willing to keep trying to find solutions to how to avoid these cases. There should be no doubt about that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210224	Thank you to the rapporteur. We continue in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210241	In the Enhedslisten, like the previous rapporteurs who have been on the platform, we have great sympathy and understanding that the Danish People's Party wants to do something to ensure better procedures for vulnerable children in the municipalities, and a number of the cases which have been quite, quite awful have been mentioned from up here, i.e. the Tøndersagen and the Brønderslev case, etc. These are some cases in which there are children who, for too long, have been subjected to failure, violence and neglect, and where this has happened without the community that should be in our society having seized them and protected those to whom we are actually duty bound, so much understanding of the intention behind the proposal. As has also been pointed out from up here, there is already the possibility in the penal code that individuals employed in the public sector may be punished if they fail to fulfil their duties. In municipal supervision, therefore, there is also the possibility of imposing periodic penalty payments on municipalities and municipal councillors, but I am not going to go into that further, because the Minister has already explained this in the first place. So it has to be said that the tools that the Danish People's Party is calling for in the resolution are very much already in place. What I have then written in my rapporteur's speech here in advance is that one has to ask oneself the question, but one does not have to do so, because the Danish People's Party has put it ■ why the mechanisms are then never used. That's natural enough. As far as I am concerned, it is all the more likely because there may be something preventative about it. I do not think so much there is, but probably it is, because when something like this goes wrong it is very rarely possible to point to one person, at one link in the chain, at one department in a particular municipality, where it has gone wrong and where there is a person who has actually failed to fulfil his duties, who has actually ignored the fact that a child's rights have been violated and that there has been an attack on a child, and therefore it is very, very difficult to say that it is an individual that can be held responsible for it. The problem lies much more in the system, i.e. that the system is not designed in a way that enables it to intervene, much more than it is in malicious will or lack of competence, or what else could be said, by individuals. That is why we in the Enhedslist have also thought about this, and we have some proposals that we have made several times. The rapporteur for the SF just stood up and mentioned something that is a matter for us and which we have also tried to raise in several financial law negotiations, that is to say, the matter of getting a maximum. On the number of cases each case officer may sit with. The problem, then, may be that you simply have too many cases to spot those children where it is right, really serious, and therefore do not have to act in time either. There are examples that it has been up to about 100 cases in a single case officer, and that is therefore too much to be able to make a holistic effort. One of the things we have also proposed is that you can have a national task force that can take over some of the very heavy cases. What has been characteristic of these incredibly violent cases we have seen has been the fact that in a small municipality one has not had sufficient professional competence, because fortunately there, we can say very rarely encounter the heavy children's cases. There the municipality could be given the opportunity to say to a national task force: this simply gets us over the head; would you please help? This should be possible, and it could be done quickly and efficiently, while at the same time giving such a task force the cases in which a family moves from the municipality, so that from the outset we avoid the so-called nomad families who move from the municipality to the municipality to avoid social services, because unfortunately there have also been a few examples of children actually being lost. I also think that in-service training should be discussed with the case workers and more access to professional sparring across municipalities when it comes to the heavy children's cases. All in all, I think there is good reason to have this discussion. There may be a committee work in which we can look a little more closely at what is possible. If the Danish People's Party would like to do so, the Enhedslisten would certainly really, very much like to contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210754	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Karin Nødgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210800	Well, I actually think we should have a discussion on that in the Social Affairs Committee, i.e. whether there is a broad consensus on how we can look at it, in terms of how it should be in the future in this area, so that it is not just what to say when the alarm bells ring and there are some heavy cases where we should all be quick to report some things out, but that we have that ongoing process. I think that might be quite interesting and exciting. I just need to hear from Mrs Pernille Skipper about the statement that came about that it is difficult to find who is responsible. I think so, too. It may also be that there are more, etc. But then it is actually that I am just thinking: what good is it then that we have the options that are available today if you already like to give up and say: we probably cannot find out who it is? Then it won't work. So, what is the point of all the sanctions that the Minister gave us in his opening speech when they are not being used in this way? The rapporteur himself referred to these tragic matters. I mean, it must be awful when city names get connected to places where you care for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414210907	I actually agree. You should give things some other names, because it's a little sin for the cities somewhere. To the question of whether you can point to someone responsible and whether it is of any use that we have this, I would say that I think it is. It can be said that, fortunately, there are also relatively few murders in Denmark, but that is why we still need to get away from a penal code banning murder. I would say that there are very few war crimes in Denmark • we are not at war • but therefore we must also still have... etc. etc. So, of course, it must be a criminal offence to ignore a child in need or another person for that matter. I think that is a basic principle. The fact that it is not then used is hopefully for me to see a sign that the people who take care of children in every possible way in our system do so with the greatest possible liability, because none of them have incurred or have a really what to say continue to fail to do their duty. This shows that what we are dealing with is a system that needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211023	The author of the second brief remark
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211026	That is exactly what we can go into in the Committee on Social Affairs. Moreover, it may also be that the minister in his area is the minister we have now, the Minister for the Interior will contribute in some way to this. But should we not actually have seen that some of these sanctions had been used today, when the rapporteur himself is talking about these terrible cases that have been going on? Shouldn't we have actually seen that some of these things had been used? That was one part of it. It is also a little late in the day now, so I just need the rapporteur to clarify that what we want in relation to a national task force is something other than the task force on which we have reached an agreement. Or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211107	Yes, we believe that it can be expanded, and we would very much like to be involved in discussing this. Whether it should be a new one or whether we should expand it is worth a discussion. I am not going to stand by and point out whether some individuals have incurred criminal liability in those cases. I would say that I hope and expect the prosecution to take care of this, in the sense that when there is something as violent as this and there is a risk that some people have actually incurred criminal liability, then the prosecution goes in and assesses, in cooperation with the police, whether there is a basis for raising a case, and then they do so, of course, if there is a basis. However, a question may be put to the Minister of Justice to ask whether the prosecution has considered it in some cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211200	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211208	The Liberal Alliance social rapporteur, Thyra Frank, cannot be here today, but I have received this speech from her, which I will read on her behalf. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wants the government to make legislative proposals by the end of 2015 and to take other necessary steps to increase the accountability of municipal and municipal members by serious or repeated failure in cases of child and youth abuse. It is important to stress that the vast majority of municipalities are doing a good job, but unfortunately there have been examples that some municipalities have overheard repeated reports of failure to care. This is totally unacceptable and, in the view of the Liberal Alliance, it should have consequences for those responsible either in the form of fines or warnings or in the form of serious redundancies. The motion for a resolution here is very much in line with the 2014 Liberal Alliance's social initiative, among other things. It is clear that children subjected to abuse must be immediately protected and that municipalities that fail or jam cases must be financially punished and those responsible must be held to account. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211339	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211358	That life in all its phases cannot be a dance on roses, I think most people will nod to, including children and young people. There will be bumps on the road, which may be larger or smaller, of shorter or longer duration, but with a base and usually parental support it is possible to make progress along the path of life. Similarly, despite challenges and concerns for the well-being of their children, parents can find common rhythms and support in conjunction with their children. It's just not like that for everyone. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that right now there is no abuse. Unfortunately, there will always be parents who have not understood what it means to be caring and loving and who abuse their children. Sadly, it is when those who should be the best at caring for the children, namely the parents, fail to do so. When that happens, it is important that those who then have the right and the opportunity to intervene, namely the authorities, do so too. We know this in several cases has not been the case. That is why the Danish People's Party has considered how this effort could be improved, and that is why we have also tabled this proposal. Of course, we had hoped that we would have a little more support. It is, of course, gratifying here that the Liberal Alliance is going in and supporting the proposal. I really believe that we owe it to those children who have been through such nightmare-like conditions in their upbringing that they can somehow see that something is happening. In conclusion, however, I would also like to say that I think they can see that too. In fact, I think that the debate that has taken place now shows that there is an intention on the part of all parties who have been present to make some improvements in this area. As I also said, I think it was for Enhedslisten's rapporteur, it is perhaps sometimes good that we are not just acting and reacting when the big cases explode; it is for all policy areas; we are also constantly focusing on what it is that we can do better in certain specific policy areas. In fact, I think I will go along with that in our work in the Committee on Social Affairs. But I can also see that there have been municipal rapporteurs here and that someone other than the Minister for Social Affairs is present. I was aware of that, and should I say hello, there is no doubt there. But I had started by correcting the proposal to the Minister for Social Affairs, and then I got a question, and then I said this was all right and so on. And it can almost only do better in the future if you can do something together. So I would just like to thank you for the debate and say that we must keep sticking to this issue in order to ensure that we do not forget, in the heat of the fight and everything else that goes on politically, those children who do not have the best conditions for a good life and do not have the quality of life that we others want to give to our own children, but that we take responsibility, especially when the very nearest ones fail. So these must be my concluding remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211652	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150414211708	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 15 April 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
