ParlaMint-DK_20151023100017	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 17 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a parallel agreement on Europol). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 18 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of the exploration and extraction of shale gas). Titles on the reported cases will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100049	The debate is open. I have to say, just before I give the floor to the first rapporteur, that our system, which shows the time on the platform, has unfortunately collapsed, so I stand up like this in a bit of time so that we know that speaking time is being exceeded. Here you go, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100122	Thank you. I'm not so sure there's gonna be a need for that. I shall start by saying on behalf of Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from SF, who could not be present today, that the SF, like the Social Democratic Party, subscribes to this bill. It is an unchanged re-submission, so it is not so awfully long ago that this draft law has been first-read and thus debated in this Chamber. And I agree with what our then rapporteur, Mr. John Paulsen Paulsen, and the then Secretary of Defense, Mr. Nicolai Wammen said on that occasion. So I would like to say quite briefly: this is a bill that is still important, and therefore it is also wise that the new government has retabled it. Foreign fighters are a real problem. They are native to Denmark, choose to go out and fight, and thus acquire the military skills. This bill gives Defence Intelligence the opportunity to follow up on foreign fighters, and I think it is absolutely essential for us to protect the Danish people. And then it is the case that the bill also ensures that a court order is obtained. Of course, it is also an important part. The Social Democratic Party can agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100236	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100248	This bill forms part of the so-called terrorist package, which will ensure Denmark further after the terrorist attack in February. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that in future it will be possible for the Defence Intelligence Service to listen to people who are permanently resident in Denmark but who are abroad. First of all, it is important to expose the shady acts of the so - called holy warriors. It is clear that we must be as good as possible to catch the holy warriors and stop their assassination plans. The Danish People's Party therefore supports L 9, just as we did in the spring when the bill was first tabled under the name L 200.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100331	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100341	Thank you, President. Now, the President-in-Office of the Council regretted that it was a little too bad that the clock was broken so that we could not see the speaking time. I will take full advantage of that. Thank you for that, President. The draft law that we are now starting to deal with first is a draft law which unfortunately has come into being on the basis of a very sad and tragic event in Denmark. It deals with the whole question of what we are doing to be able to combat terrorism both in Denmark and outside Denmark. After all, we all experienced how Danish society in February was affected by a deeply tragic terrorist activity, and in that light, of course, we must also look at whether there are things we need to do differently, whether more tools are needed, and not least whether there are things that require action. The bill was drawn up by the previous government but was drawn up in connection with the announcement of the election. Prior to that, a longer process of negotiation had taken place between the then government and several parties. The result of these discussions is this bill. The draft law is based on the need to have a better chance of monitoring, among other things. the so-called foreign fighters, which is an ever-increasing problem, namely people who go from Denmark to war zones in, for example. Syria and Iraq in order to be able to return potentially to Danish society and thus pose a risk to all of us and to our security and freedom here in Denmark. That is why we can also see that, although there has been a longer discussion in connection with the new tools provided by the FE with this bill, we have jointly reached a balanced and sensible approach where the FE must have a court order before going any further in terms of monitoring certain individuals. Having said that, it is also crucial that we have confidence in the intelligence services so that they can do their job without political mistrust. In the Left, we have confidence that the Defense Intelligence Service is doing everything they can. Having said that, it is of course also essential that we address some of the points that have been raised in the legislative proposal now before us in the committee's work, but, on the other hand, we must also say that a political agreement has been reached, of which the Left is a part, and I think there is reason to acknowledge that, as part of the defence committee, we have also agreed on what needs to be done in the future in relation to the intelligence services. With these comments, I would say that the Left is looking forward to the committee reading, and we attach crucial importance to strengthening our intelligence capacity in the FE, so that the FE has the best tools and the best opportunities to keep track of what is happening outside Denmark's borders and is therefore also able to help, so that neither Denmark nor, for that matter, other countries will be targets for terrorist acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100620	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100636	Thank you very much. Of course, we must do our best to combat terrorism and defend democracy, but it is essential that we do not undermine the democracy we want to defend at the same time in the fight against terrorism. We have seen in the past how the terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September 2001 led to massive surveillance and how it has also violated fundamental democratic rights. So here in Denmark, too, it is important that we think about before we legislate. Of course we all want to act against terrorism, but we must also do so in a way that works and works as intended. The bill as it stands now, as several others have also pointed out, is less problematic than the first one, where the Defence Intelligence Service could monitor completely without having a warrant. It is very good that it has been corrected, but we are still worried about a large number of things in this proposal. Basically, we believe in the Enhedslisten that it should be a task for the Police Intelligence Service to monitor the Danes and not the Defence Intelligence Service. Although we would also like there to be better control of the Police Intelligence Service, there is, after all, much more democratic control over them than there is with the Defence Intelligence Service, which is the most closed intelligence service we have in Denmark. There are also a large number of consultation responses to this bill, which expresses concern for legal certainty, and I think we should take this very seriously. This is among other things. IT-Politics Association, concerned about whether there are too loose wordings in the proposal that allow monitoring without court orders. It is also the Lawyers' Council that has pointed to a large number of problems, and the Institute for Human Rights and Legal Policy Association. And I really think there is reason to take this seriously, because when we legislate to combat terrorism, we must do so within the limits of democracy. It is, of course, the very foundations of democracy to ensure the legal certainty of citizens, and that is why we in the Enhedslist cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100840	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023100854	Thank you. This bill came into being in the spring, in the wake of a terrorist attack in Copenhagen. There were a number of serious discussions in the wake of this, and even a proposal for a bill which was certainly intended to protect our Western values, but which unfortunately in its paper was that one should be able to monitor Danes abroad without prior court order. Fortunately, the quite long negotiations led to the fact that all parties came together that it simply did not work out, so that we should not sell out of our legal principles in order to protect our values. In this context, we can now note with satisfaction that we are actually given the Defence Intelligence services the tools needed to monitor Danes abroad who are not friendly to Denmark. So you can, but we stick to the legal principles that we have in Denmark. That is why it is gratifying that such a broad majority will come together. That is why this proposal is a good one, which is absolutely necessary and appropriate in the wake of what has happened. That is why we can support the proposal of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101014	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. If you can see that you are next, you can sit at the rapporteur's table. It's voluntary, but it saves a little time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101032	In the alternative, we did not have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations or the debate before the summer holidays, which is why we are still critical, as I heard that Enhedslisten is doing, in relation to the proposal. We hope to be able to approach a solution where we can say yes, because we would also like to support the work of the intelligence service. At the moment, however, we do not think that the terrorist threat we are talking about may not necessarily be best combated by legislating in this way, in which we are going to molest democracy, as we are doing in some respects by putting on a hat where we say that the foreign fighters who may be threatening us in this country, we can fight by legislating on it with extra surveillance. So we look forward to perhaps becoming wiser in committee work, but right now we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101131	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101138	Thank you. When democracies are subjected to terrorist attacks, our fundamental values are challenged in many different ways. One of the most charming things about democracies is that we are really bad at both war and war, so we can say to use totalitarian tools, and that is why we are challenged when we face terrorism. Because we must try to strike a balance where, on the one hand, we have to strike back hard on the threats that suddenly exist, even in ourselves, while, on the other hand, we must try not to compromise precisely the democracy and the fundamental liberal freedoms that are all about democracy. I think that this balance has to be said very openly and honestly, as many of the rapporteurs who have already been on the floor have also said. For the Radical Left, as both the Liberal Alliance and several others have also mentioned, it has been absolutely crucial in relation to the specific legislative proposal here that there has now been a demand that, if you are to intervene in the secret of communication, in other words listen and follow Danish nationals abroad, a court order should be granted. So it gives the security of every citizen who goes out that, as an intelligence agency, you can't just start listening to anyone. It is not really because I believe that neither the Defence Intelligence Service nor the Police Intelligence Service would do so, but it is clear that you have to set up your system in such a way that, if there were to be one stingy vessel in such an intelligence service, you have an extra security. That is why I believe that this draft law strikes the balance between what is perhaps our most basic right of liberty, namely the right to security, on the one hand, and the right of expression and movement, of course, without being monitored. This is a difficult matter, but we think that, with the court order that has been made, we can also support this proposal, since, like many others, we will, of course, follow the committee procedure and the consultation answers that have been given very closely. But we are in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Social Democrats announced that they spoke on behalf of the Socialist People's Party, so we move on to the Conservative People's Party. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101418	I can tell you that the Conservative People's Party also intends to support the bill, and I am completely in line with the other rapporteurs who have been up here and have announced that their parties also support the bill. I also think it is very, very important that there is the right balance and we also think it has been good that a round has been taken about it. We think it's a good thing that a warrant is required. We must also say that this is quite serious, and the intelligence services in Denmark must know how we are surrounded by security measures every day, and one of the most serious terrorist threats seems to come from people who are just staying abroad. So I can only say that I think this is a good legislative proposal and, of course, we are also looking forward to seeing the consultation answers. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101521	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101532	Thank you for the debate and for the broad support from the parties. The bill is a key element in the government's strengthened anti-terrorism action, and the purpose of the bill is to strengthen the main efforts of the Defence Intelligence Service in this area. In recent years, the threat from an increasing number of expatriated extremists from Western countries, the so-called foreign fighters, has been a growing challenge, and that is also true of Denmark. The conflict in Syria and Iraq is today the most important factor in the threat picture, and at least 125 people are or have been left from Denmark. In Denmark resident persons travelling abroad for e.g. joining a terrorist organisation and receiving military training or engaging in fighting, etc., is today an essential element of the threat picture in relation to Denmark. Defence Intelligence is Denmark's foreign intelligence service and thus our eyes and ears abroad. One of the main after-business tasks of the service is to seek and detect threats and follow people staying abroad and such as: Through military training and combat actions, specific skills and a readiness to violence can pose a threat to Denmark and Danish interests. As I have said, there has been a marked increase in the number of people resident in Denmark travelling abroad to receive such training or participate in combat or outright terrorist attacks, and thus these people come into contact with networks and organisations to which the Defence Intelligence Service's efforts are directed. However, a consequence of the existing limitations in the legislation has been that the Defence Intelligence Service has today not been able to target the exorbitant Danish extremists, although they may potentially pose a very serious terrorist threat to Denmark and Danish interests. The people who leave Denmark are now largely joining the ISIL, which carries out terrorism and brutality on an unprecedented scale and which, among other things, we share. Danish fighters have contributed militarily to fighting in Iraq. The bill will strengthen Defence Intelligence's ability to detect and detect terrorist threats to Denmark and Danish interests at an earlier stage than the current legislation allows. And with the bill the Defence Intelligence Service will have access to obtain information about a natural person resident in Denmark when he is abroad and there are specific, concrete reasons to assume that he is participating in activities that may involve or increase a terrorist threat against Denmark and Danish interests. As several of the rapporteurs also mentioned, the draft law also ensures that in the event of interference with the secrecy of the notification, a court order must be obtained. Information obtained as a result of the new provision is also subject to the supervision already carried out by the Intelligence Directorate in relation to the Defence Intelligence Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101849	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101906	The debate is open. It's sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen as the first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023101920	Also, in this bill, I'm going to have to do it on behalf of Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen from the SF say that they also agree to the bill. This is also an unchanged re-submission, so it is not so long ago that it has been debated in the Chamber, and this time too I can agree with what our rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has said. John Paulsen Paulsen, and the then Secretary of Defense said on that occasion. This is a matter of security for our telecommunications infrastructure and how we protect a society that has become increasingly digital. I understand that various concerns have been expressed by the industry, but also that some of the concerns have been taken into account. I noted very much that the then Minister ended his speech when it was first discussed here, by giving notice to the Folketing and I quote: The details of the Act must be translated into a series of notices laying down the detailed technical rules. We will involve the industry in that process, just as draft announcements will be discussed by the parties supporting the bill. Quote out. I just hope that the new minister will conclude his speech by stating the same principles as the former minister did.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102036	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102045	The Center for Cybersecurity under the Ministry of Defence will be able to control and ensure the level of safety of Danish telecommunications providers by means of this law. This can be called due diligence in relation to an area that is becoming increasingly difficult to control and where Denmark's security is thus vulnerable. In the Danish People's Party we consider it essential to ensure our information security as much as possible. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the bill, just as we did in the spring when the bill was tabled under the name L 201. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102118	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102129	Thank you for that, President. This bill concerns the whole safety of our telecommunications infrastructure, but also the whole question of how we protect a society that is becoming more and more digital. Therefore, we also need to be aware from the Danish side of how we can ensure that the critical infrastructure is protected in the best possible way. For the same reason, we look forward to starting the committee procedure because it has been a rather controversial draft law before it was tabled for the first time. There has been discussion in public about this, and not least there has also been a large number of contributions from the industry about their fears about the impact this bill could have on the telecommunications industry. Having said that, we have noted that the draft law has now been submitted for consultation and there have been a number of consultation responses. Some of the consultation answers are more critical than others, but overall we think that the bill looks reasonable. The left is in agreement with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102232	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102247	It is of course a very necessary and important task to strengthen our network and information security. After all, we are totally dependent on the IT and telecommunications infrastructure, and it is of course also necessary that it can be restored if there have been either hacker attacks or there have been floods or storms. So this is an important task. I would also like to say that it is very positive that the Minister and the Ministry in dealing with this piece of legislation have taken seriously and tightened up concerns and comments that have come from both the IT-Politics Association and many others, such as: the supervisory access to the telecommunications companies' infrastructure does not mean that there is also access to customer communications. It's really important. But basically we have the problem with this proposal that the tasks and supervision lie with the Centre for Cybersecurity, which is an authority of the Defence Intelligence Service. I believe that ensuring our network and information security should be a civilian task. There's no reason why this should be under a military authority. It would be far more logical and reasonable for it to be carried out by a civil authority which was also subject to the general rules of public authorities. We already raised this concern when the Centre for Cybersecurity was set up, for the Defence Intelligence Service there is just incredibly little insight into and control over what is doing, and at the same time they have very wide powers to fail to comply with the ordinary legislation that all other authorities have to comply with. With the establishment of the Centre, it was possible for the Defence Intelligence Service to process more information about the Danes and also to use this information in their other work and even to a certain extent to exchange this information with partners abroad. We therefore believe that the personal data of Danish citizens are exposed to a risk of abuse which we would very much like to avoid. When we want to protect our society and our citizens from cyber attacks, it must be a protection that does not compromise legal certainty at the same time. So, in the Enhedslisten, we fully agree that there is a need to support network and information security, and we believe that much of what lies in the content of L 10 is very sensible and that a great deal has been done to better meet and secure citizens' information. But we simply think that it is a critical problem that the structure is such that the Cybersecurity Centre is responsible for this task. That is why we cannot support L 10.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102530	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102537	Thank you. Danish society has, of course, become more vulnerable by the digitalisation that has taken place, both to break down in this whole area and to attack. That is why it is essential to ensure that legislation can counteract this, and that is what the legislative proposal we are now debating is about. It is, moreover, a re-submission, which is why it can be said that the Folketing has had the opportunity to discuss it. But now this is again. We will not fail to point out that there have been a number of consultation responses and that there is also concern in business about what this means in terms of competition. Are there significant increases in costs which need to be taken more into account in a competitive situation? That is why, of course, it is necessary for the committee work now to try to take account of the signals that have come, and perhaps one could consider everything because it cannot be clarified now, before the law will work whether an audit clause could be appropriate, so that one can have a look at it when it has worked for a few years. I think that is worth considering in the committee's work, i.e. whether such a paragraph should be inserted. But otherwise we agree that these security measures are necessary. So we support the bill, but look forward during the committee work to getting closer to the concerns and discussing with the other parties whether, in the light of the consultation answers given, there could be an interest in an audit clause in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102706	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102715	Thank you. In these months, in the Alternative, we are involved most of Denmark in our new IT and digital freedoms policy. Digital freedoms are a bit difficult to hold on to, and when you talk to both stakeholders and business about what really needs to be put in it, it points in very different directions. And that's how I feel about this bill. I am very concerned that, in the end, we are going to impose some restrictions on citizens, although that is not what is intended, and I am very concerned about the fact that we are going to impose some restrictions on business. The business community is very clear that this is going to be a severe restriction, and there are all kinds of good reasons for this, and there are probably also some economic agendas behind it. I think we should listen to them too, because we are talking a lot about being able to compete with other countries. I come from the business community myself, and there I have seen that the bureaucratic restrictions that can be imposed are severe, and if you fight against companies in other countries that have more flexible arrangements, that is something that removes the belief that it is possible to compete on quality that we have in Denmark. So there are a lot of things in this bill that point in very different directions and that we need to be worried about. As I have already said, I look forward to becoming wiser in the course of the committee work and perhaps finding that we can support it. But we cannot do that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102844	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023102851	As in the legislative proposal we have just dealt with, there are also dilemmas in this. We are once again faced with an increased threat to our IT security, which we need to do something about in order to defend, one can say the freedom right, it is that we can safely and without being looked over the shoulder can communicate and safely develop our society. Faced with this, it is clear that some of the tools we then have to use to ensure that security lead to greater disadvantages. And in this case, I believe that the main drawbacks are that we are going to impose such high costs and burdens on the professions responsible for our IT communications that they are at risk of moving elsewhere, and then we are, of course, just as far away. And it's also a delicate balance. We basically believe that balance has been struck, but we also have some questions to which we would like answers. This is quite a broad framework for the Centre for Cybersecurity, and we must of course be sure that the requirements that we are now giving the Centre the opportunity to address to the industry ensure as good a dialogue with the industry as possible and that we are sure that the considerations that need to be taken into account and only impose what is absolutely necessary on the industry. I understand that the industry is asking that we, as politicians, ensure that the center respects that. I think we should do that, and that is why I am putting the same thing as Mr Beazley. Henrik Dam Christensen emphasizes that the Minister will involve both the industry and the rest of us in the coinage for which he is hereby authorised. Another concern is about the demands that can be made on the telecommunications companies' commercial contracts and that, as such, goes quite far. This may also be necessary in order to ensure safety, as I said, but of course we must always guard against excessive use of the powers that come. This is something that we will attach great importance to, not only in committee but also in subsequent implementation of this law. Against this background, the Radical Left can also join the choir of parties that are in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103105	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party has spoken on behalf of the Socialist People's Party, so it will be Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103121	Conservatives also intend to support the bill, and the fundamental considerations are very similar to those we had before with L 9. It is a balance between the fact that we are putting a lot of trouble on some people, but that we also have a rather serious threat that we need to take into account. I'm not an expert on cybersecurity, which is why I'm also going to follow the treatment of this bill and also listen quite a lot to what comes of input. I can already see that there are some problems with the fact that we have a public authority that can go in and impose such a close inspection if you can call it private companies. On the other hand, it is difficult to see that we can just stand by and we can just leave something as vital as the whole of our society is built on, namely our IT infrastructure, without a certain level of control and without anyone being able to go in and demand to ensure that security is in order. So, as it seems to me now, the bill looks reasonable, and I look forward to following the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103233	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103244	Thank you for the debate and thank you for the support from the many parties to the bill here. I therefore share the concerns that have been raised that we must always find a balance, a balance in ensuring that other countries do not look into information which is Danish and which is subject to the Danish safety regulations, and that is basically what the bill is also about: that we have a telecommunications infrastructure which meets high standards and which ensures that, wherever you actually operate your infrastructure, there is no open access to other countries and to industrial espionage. That is basically what I think we all want to ensure. Of course, when it comes to the ordinary legislative procedure, I will only be pleased if we can get the questions that may be drilled thoroughly and properly out, but at the same time I would also like to say what the previous government did at first reading at that time, namely that when we are going to implement the regulations, it is going to be done in a good dialogue with the parties that support the bill here, and at the same time also say that I am in favour of seeing whether we can make a model for evaluating the draft law with a report, two to three years after it has been allowed to work, so that we follow up on whether we also have the right balance in the long term between what we want to achieve on behalf of society and the burdens that the providers might be placed on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103444	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103504	The debate is open. It is first Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103522	Thank you. This is a bill that deserves much less attention than it is now being dealt with twice because it was first dealt with before the elections. It's pure technique, and basically it just moves that you write in the Ankestyrelsen. It is still the Ankestyrelsen who is carrying out this task, and it will also be in the legislation. It is of course important that it is in the way it is in reality, but I do not think it is something we should spend much time on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103550	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103555	Thank you. It is true that we have dealt with this in this Chamber in the past. The overall purpose of this bill is to abolish the departmental status of the Family Court Department, so that the Family Justice Department is given the same organisational status as the rest of the Ankestyrelsen, and to allow the Ankestyrelsen to decide to deal with matters of principle or general family law in a meeting with an extended vote involving appointed members, including laymen. It is the Department of Family Law of the Ankestyrelsen which, on behalf of the Minister, deals with these cases. Several of the hearings support the bill, and the Ankestyrelsen also supports the purpose of the bill. I agree that the proposal will clarify the legal position of citizens with regard to the possibility of bringing family law proceedings before the Ankestyrelsen. In the Danish People's Party we are interested in strengthening the legal position of citizens, and if this bill can contribute to it, then it is a good thing. But I would just like to ask the Minister whether this bill will in any way affect the processing times of the Ankestyrelsen so that they will be even longer. After all, we have discussed the long processing times in the Ankestyrelsen in the past, and that would of course not be satisfactory. The Danish People's Party is in favour and also supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103717	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103732	Then things suddenly went fast. We are about to deal with the re-presentation of L 186, which was not completed because of the fact that a parliamentary election was held. It has now been retabled and, except for two amendments, which are of a purely legal and editorial nature, the draft law is the same as has been tabled in the past. The Left, like the rest of the Folketing, was in favour of the proposal and it has not changed, even though we have been given the power of government. That is why I am not going to leave Members of the House with such a long speech. The bill abolishes the special status of the Department of Family Law and thus makes the entire Ankestyrelsen a general board of the Ministry. The legislation will thus fit in with the process that it already de facto looks out today, namely that the Ankestyrelsen deals with the family-law complaints, and that is very sensible. The Ankestyrelsen is also given the opportunity to deal with matters of fundamental family law with voting by laymen, and that is also very sensible. All in all, we in the Left are pleased to note that the draft law corrects the organisational status of the Ankestyrelsen and that the draft law strengthens the legal position of citizens in relation to the possibility of appealing to the Ankestyrelsen. And the Left therefore supports the • and it is likely that the Minister will be pleased to hear the bill still.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103856	Thank you. It should now be Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, but I do not see that she is present, and then we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance who may not be present either. Then it'll be mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023103931	I will also be brief. In submitting this proposal, it is stressed that the purpose of the bill is that the Family Law Department will have the same organisational status as the rest of the Ankestyrelsen and that it will be possible for the Ankestyrelsen to decide to deal with matters of principle or general family law in a meeting with extended voting. Generally speaking, we support debureaucratisation and easier transparency in the processes, and we believe that this proposal supports this. We also attach importance to the possibility of extended voting, which we hope and believe will allow for greater involvement of more perspectives in matters of principle. We stress that several of the consultation responses emphasise that it will strengthen the legal position of citizens. We see this as a positive development and, if the proposal can contribute in this direction, we naturally support it. We are in favour of the proposal. The alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104024	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is the 'Well now', Mrs Trine Torp, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104050	Thank you. It's gonna be very short. SF agrees with the draft law and does not have any other comments on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104100	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104110	Thank you. As has already been said, this proposal is of a rather technical nature and has already been dealt with in this Chamber. But since this is my first time on this honorable platform, I would like to give it a few words on the road anyway. The purpose of the bill is to integrate the family law area fully into the Ankestyrelsen, so that it is no longer part of the department, but receives the same organisational status as the rest of the Ankestyrelsen. This will in future allow the Ankestyrelsen to deal with matters of principle or general interest at meetings where laymen can also participate as appointed members. Furthermore, as you know, the hearing has shown that there is generally very broad support for the draft law, and we in the Conservative People's Party can also endorse the proposal, which is closely linked to L 7, which we will be dealing with later today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104204	Thank you. And then it's the Social and Interior Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104212	Thank you very much, and thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for this very positive reception. Let me begin by giving an answer to the Danish People's Party on the question that was asked: this bill will not have any influence over the discussion about the processing times in the Danish Agency for the Protection of the Family, because, as it is mentioned, it is really just a little simple to say that it is an internship in integrating the Danish Agency's performance in the area of family law fully into the Danish Agency of Appeals. We are doing so because somewhere we have to put an end to a historically conditional arrangement which is not necessary. We now achieve that the Ankestyrelsen will fully become a general administration under the Ministry, including in the field of family law. So let me say here that I am pleased with the support that the draft law has met here from the parties, and will of course be available if there are any questions and wishes to clarify matters during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104317	Thank you, Minister. And since one more person has just asked for the floor, namely Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance, we will wait a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104327	Thank you. I would also, of course, like to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal, since we think it makes sense that the family unit should have the same organisational status as the rest of the Ankestyrelsen. We think that precisely the overall objective of the draft law, namely that the family unit should be given the same status, makes very good sense. It makes good sense that the Ankestyrelsen can deal with family law cases at meetings where laymen participate. It strengthens the citizens' ability to complain to the Ankestyrelsen, and of course the Liberal Alliance supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104403	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104421	The debate is open. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104433	Thank you. I can now see that Mrs Pernille Skippe is not present in the Chamber. That is a little too bad, because I intended to begin by saying that I was extremely furious about the statements made in the press in connection with the first reading of this matter. For there I hear Mrs Pernille Skip say that, in her opinion, this was an agreement that reflected the fact that the parties that have concluded the agreement believe that it is primarily those who adopt, that is to say the adopters, the parents, that we take care of. And I just don't think that's right. Mrs Pernille Skip has been at virtually every negotiating meeting that has been in this area until the end, which means that we can discuss whether it is 90%. or 95%. of the time we spent debating the children 90 percent. or 95%. of the time was spent debating how we could ensure that the children entering the adoption system were not acted; that they come here on proper conditions; that the parents who are to receive them are geared to it, dressed for it. That's it, 90 percent. or 95%. of the time was spent on. So I simply do not think it is right to make such statements. We may disagree politically on the methods we use, that is fair enough, but to start making such statements I do not think that is right. Then the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who is then present, must decide whether he will or will not measure up to what the other has said. I can understand if you do not want to. But otherwise, I think it would suit Mrs Pernille Skippe to be present in the Chamber when we take the debate. That is precisely the starting point, and I believe that this has been the starting point for the whole table around now. I am not going to say everything on behalf of everyone, but I believe that everyone has taken this very thing with the adoption system very seriously. We have some very great dilemmas, there have been no easy solutions, and I do not think that anyone has tried to skip the bottom line. We have taken every one of the problems that have been, we have dealt with them seriously, we have looked into the dilemmas, and there are plenty of them, I should say, and then we have tried to land an agreement that creates stability and calms this area, and which most of all makes us check that the totally unacceptable trafficking in human beings that is taking place in the world does not become part of the adoption system to which we in Denmark contribute. So that's the intentions of this deal. This means that we are imposing stricter requirements on organisations that are facing international adoption, which means that we are strengthening the supervision of organisations, we are creating greater clarity in this area, and, finally, we are giving a hand in advising the families who are going to adopt. All in all, it reflects a heartfelt desire for the children who come here to come from the background that means that they should be adopted, to actually get the best possible adoption course, since they are in the unhappy situation that they cannot live with their biological parents. So that's the purpose of this deal. We have dealt with it once in the Chamber. Now I can see that Mrs Pernille Skipper has arrived, so she can get a record, otherwise I will ask a few questions. Thank you for the floor. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104736	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104743	Thank you. The reason for this bill is that an overall analysis of the Danish adoption system has been carried out with a particular focus on international foreign adoptions. In addition, the DA has also carried out an investigation into the supervision of the adoption-formulating organisations included in the overall analysis. The lawyer then pointed to a number of measures which, in his view, should be considered in relation to this here and in relation to the overall analysis. Among other things, there were: In addition, the Commission has identified a need for clarification of the content of the supervision and who is responsible for the supervision. The draft law translates into a broad political agreement, the overall aim of which is to ensure the future of international adoption dissemination and to support the necessary stability in the adoption system, while also increasing security in relation to the adoptions implemented. The proposal should therefore also help to support good conditions for the children who come to Denmark. The draft law lays down the conditions for authorisation to provide international adoption aid, while at the same time restricting the access of an adoption-formulating organisation to help work, so that only aid work related to adoption aid can be provided. It's a good deal we've made. There have been a number of challenges along the way, because it is always difficult when we are dealing with children. That is why the Committee on Social Affairs also chose to take a trip to Ethiopia, where we were in dialogue with officials, police, embassies, and we also visited several orphanages, both public and private. At the time, the Ethiopian authorities were engaged in a process to improve their adoption process, and they were also looking at the resources of the network, including the use of foster families, and these are also areas that we here in Denmark attach great importance to. The Danish People's Party is part of this agreement, and we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023104956	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105010	Thank you. As with the bill we were just discussing, this bill is also a re-submission. It was a draft law that reached first and second reading here in the House, but then it lapsed due to the discharge of parliamentary elections, and today we are resubmitting it, and I am also resubmitting the position of the Left, which has not changed since the last reading, and neither have our positions: the Left still looks at this bill with positive eyes. First of all, because the new adoption system ensures that adoptions can take place in a way that is for the best of the children, and that is precisely our focus, that is, the well-being of the children. It is the fundamental position of the Left that the adoption process should be about focusing on the child that is and must be adopted, that is to say, having new parents, and therefore the priority of the adoption system must be the well-being of the children, with which the wishes and needs of the adoptive parents must be put in the second place. The adoption process is a complex process at all, since there are many emotions and expectations involved, and unfortunately it can result in some unfortunate processes in which children, biological parents and adoptive parents are at risk of getting into a mess. It is therefore gratifying that, with this bill, we will hopefully be able to tackle some of these issues with the proposed amendments to the adoption law. The changes will increase the safety of adoptions, partly because the requirements of the adoption-formulating organisations are being tightened up and partly because more supervision by the authorities will be exercised. It is also positive that in future the Danish Agency of Appeal will have to approve matching proposals and that the adoptive parents will be given the necessary support both before and after the removal of a child. Hopefully this will ensure that all parties are given the best possible adoption programme and that the children come to the right adoptive parents as far as possible. In conclusion, I would like to say that we in the Left are convinced that we have succeeded in securing the future adoption process for the benefit of all parties, but with the greatest focus on children, and the Left therefore once again supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105217	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105232	The scandals of recent years in the field of adoption have shown us the need to have a thorough clean-up in the system. There has been a root in the economy of the adoption-shaping organisations that have been wrong in matters, and there has actually also been suspicion of so-called child harvesters here, that is, children who have come to Denmark, not because it was the best thing for them, but because their parents have been cheated and pressured to give up their children. That is why we are now dealing with this bill and, as several have already mentioned, with both study trips, long negotiations and studies behind us. Enhedslisten isn't in the deal, and we don't support this bill. We do not, because we do not believe that the system now on the move here is geared to ensuring that the adoptions coming to Denmark will happen without direct or indirect pressure on the biological parents. We do not believe that supervision in the issuing countries is sufficient. We do not have a basis for ensuring what is really going on before the children come here, nor have we cleared out the financial incentives that are unfortunately in the system, for example. It has not been chosen to separate the aid work, i.e.: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. This should have happened, at the same time as we also supported the countries concerned in building a proper child welfare system. Another problem is that the adopted ones do not receive the special rights that I believe a modern child's view should guarantee. So you do not get the right of access to your own papers by 15 years, as it was otherwise recommended. Nor do you get a right to a relationship with the biological parents and family or to be supported in your association also with the country of origin, i.e. some kind of open adoption, nor will there be a right to advice without the presence of the adoptive parents. This is all something that should happen because we should respect the fact that the children who are adopted to Denmark come with a story and a past. They're not just, you can say clean tablets without a culture and a past. At the same time, the scandal-stricken private adoption-shaping organisations here in Denmark are allowed to continue, but in a slightly different form, yes, but I do not think that is enough with the many mistakes that have been made. As most people in this Chamber know very well, Enhedslisten believes that this is such an important task that it is something that the state should take over, because the private organisations have shown that they cannot find out. This is my last point of criticism in this debate and I dared to limit Danish cooperation to the countries that have actually signed the Hague Convention, and the Hague Convention is, of course, the convention to ensure that children's rights are respected and that children are always at the heart. The reason for not wanting to do so was, among other things, that it would lead to significantly fewer adoptions coming to Denmark because it would exclude some of the insecure countries from being part of the Danish cooperation. That is why this is my answer to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, whom I could understand was a little sad about my public statements that when you choose not to use an instrument that will clearly guarantee the rights of children and which is about children's rights, with the argument that there will then be fewer adoptions to Denmark, you put prospective adoptive parents above the children, and it is a priority that the Enhedslisten cannot be a part of. We have all the respect and compassion in the world for childless parents, but it's the kids we talk about when we talk about adoptions. We believe that this reform should have been used to create a modern system that puts the adopted ones at the centre. It should have ensured that the child's best interests were at the forefront both before an adoption, in the adoption process and certainly after when they have come here and have a life in Denmark with a new family. The draft law we are discussing is minor adjustments to a fundamentally incompetent system if I am going to use a harsh word, but that is the truth, and I do not think we can be familiar with that. This cannot be known to the adoptive parents who, of course, want the children who come here to come here, because it is the best thing for the children. This cannot be known to the biological parents who are at risk of being kidnapped by their children, nor can it be known to the adopted ones, both those who are here now and those who are coming in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105819	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil for a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105823	Thank you. I should just like to ask the rapporteur a simple question: if the rapporteur is now comparing what is here with this agreement, with what was ahead of the agreement, the old system, is this a step in the right direction or in the wrong direction, if it is the children's perspective in which we see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105842	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105844	In some respects it is an improvement, but it is not a system that can in any way ensure a proper legal ethically correct adoption system. And it is clear that when we were in the late hours of the night deciding whether or not we should be in this deal, we looked at each other in the Enhedslisten and asked: Isn't there some improvement in this, even if they are minimal, but aren't there some improvements too? And yes, there is, but can we walk away and look into the eyes of adoptive parents, biological parents and adopted parents and say: Now we have solved the problems that are? No, we can't. And that's why we can't be familiar with this. After the many scandals that have taken place, I simply do not think you can be familiar with them, and therefore I do not know what is most depressing: the legislative proposal itself or all those who praise it as much as they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105945	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023105951	I think, in all silence, that it is simply a question of nobody having the expectation that the problems of trafficking in human beings on Danish soil can be solved through legislation. And as long as there is trafficking in human beings and as long as there are people trading with children, there will be a challenge for the adoption systems that exist internationally. This does not mean that we have not sought to do better and that we do not seek to avoid it coming into the Danish adoption system. But if Enhedslisten's goal is that there should be a waterproof system before you can approve the legislation, then it is probably the same as saying that we should no longer have adoption in Denmark. Is that where you want to go in the Enhedslisten? Otherwise, I find it rather difficult to understand that the Enhedslisten side does not support anything which, after all, is a step in the right direction. What is the point of sitting down with crossed arms over in a corner and saying: We will not be there, even if we can see that it is a step in the right direction? I don't understand that logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110038	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110042	I would like to start by saying that it is incredible that, according to the Socialists, the Enhedslisten always sits with crossed arms as soon as we disagree. Sometimes it could just be that we disagreed without necessarily implying that we would not be involved. Enhedslisten does not have a waterproof system target. In fact, at no time have we tried to convince anyone that we can do it. However, we have a goal to do as well as we can at all, and I have a long list which is not even exhaustive and which I could not reach because there was not enough time in the rapporteur's speech, where we could have done better than the legislative proposal that lies. We could just say that the countries with which we work must have signed the Hague Convention, or that we will ensure that there is supervision in the issuing countries and that it is a mess to mix donations and adoptions together, because there are some inappropriate financial incentives. If it is not resolved and it is so obvious that it is possible to do so, then it is not a question of having a waterproof system as a target, but it is a question of this being just not good enough and that we could do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110142	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110154	Thank you. Since this is also a re-submission, I will essentially repeat what previous rapporteurs have said in this area. In the Liberal Alliance, we think that what this draft law wants is sensible: ensuring that international adoption provision is guaranteed in the future, while at the same time ensuring that conditions in adoptions are improved. The bill tightens the requirements, the management and supervision of the adoption organisations, and the supervision of the adoption services is brought together at the Ankestyrelsen. Then the bill must also ensure that adopted families receive the necessary support in order to support good adoption courses among children. The Liberal Alliance can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110250	Thank you. The next one is sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110300	For good reason, we have not participated in the work that preceded the parliamentary elections, as we were not in the Folketing at that time. That is why we would also like to acknowledge the great work that all the other parties have done ahead of this proposal. Thank you. In fact, when we look at documents from the lengthy process that has been going on and read consultation answers etc., we believe that this bill supports stability in the adoption system and strengthens the process in relation to the adoptions that are being implemented. We believe that the agreement improves the adoption system by strengthening supervision in terms of financial and communication matters, i.e. by bringing it together with the Ankestyrelsen. We also note that adopted and adopted families are guaranteed good conditions for advice. We always believe that it must be the attention of the children that is at the heart, and we believe that this bill supports this overall. We should constantly be very careful to be able to improve the adoption system in line with increased knowledge, insight and changing conditions both at home and abroad, so we want the committee to follow the developments in the adoption area when these changes are implemented so that we can follow the legislation closely. We support the proposal and look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110411	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110420	Thank you. L 7, which we are discussing here today, the law amending the adoption law, is, after all, a re-submission from the previous session, when it reached first and second reading before the elections were held. After all, the bill is also dealt with in the context of L 6 on the Ankestyrelsen as a family law appeal authority, which the Radical Left also supports. What is central here is the new thinking expressed in the law on amending the adoption law, which means that we share in the Folketing, that is to say, the vast majority of parties, to say yes to using the competences that exist and must be with both authorities and adoption organisations, that is to say those that communicate the adoptions internationally. That is why we have also made the bill's stricter requirements both for organisations and for supervision. We do this to ensure that the child's needs are at the heart and that throughout the process of adoption and the future of the child to be adopted to Denmark, there is safety and legality behind it and that it is all right. This, of course, requires both the personal qualifications of those who have to communicate the adoption and those who have to do with it at all, and it also requires a thorough knowledge of the legislation both in the countries adopted from and to the relevant conventions, including the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Radical Left is fully behind the bill, as we did in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110604	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110612	Thank you. Very briefly, because now Mrs Marianne Jelved herself mentions that it is a question of putting the child at the centre and that it is important to look at the countries that can find out how to comply with the conventions: could Mrs Marianne Jelved not explain to me why the Radical Left will not help to limit the fact that Denmark only cooperates with countries that have signed the Hague Convention, that is, the Convention which protects children's rights in international adoptions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110636	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110639	Thank you. We could, too, and we thought about that. We've been thinking about it, too. What is the problem, however, is that we then take a stand on which countries we can adopt from, and we do not think that this is appropriate when we both tighten up the supervision of the adoption organisations, their knowledge of legislation in the countries concerned, and when we tighten up the requirement for the supervisory authorities in Denmark. That's where we saw the weight.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110704	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110707	It is quite true that if we say that we only cooperate with the countries that have signed a particular convention, in this case the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the context of international adoptions, then the countries are restricted to those who actually respect and also sign the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the context of international adoptions. I may find it difficult to understand why it is not okay to judge it, i.e. where children come from to Denmark, especially because adopting children to Denmark could be an incentive to have more adoptions. Then Mrs Marianne Jelved could not explain: Does this mean that all countries around the world are okay to adopt from, and that there should be no restrictions on which countries can be adopted from to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110755	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110757	In principle, we did not sit down and say which countries we do not think should be adopted from. We have chosen to support the competence of the organisations providing the adoption, the knowledge they must possess and what they must assess when communicating an adoption from a country. And we have chosen to say that here at home we supervise through an enhanced supervision system within the Ankestyrelsen. In fact, I do not understand Mrs Pernille Skipper's concern, because the child who comes from a country that does not recognise or has not yet done so should not be prevented from being adopted into Denmark, which has approved the children's conventions. It is then the child that is at the heart, not the country and its adoption of a convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110846	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023110854	SF is one of the parties behind the October 2014 political agreement and therefore supports the bill. Every adoption is unique, every issuing country is it, every orphanage is it, every family is it, and that's the story that the child has with him, too. That is why it is not easy to make legislation that takes into account everything and that takes into account everything, even if we want to simplify law. But with this bill, we are taking an important and big step in the right direction. The legislative proposal contains some clear improvements, of which I would particularly like to highlight the extension of the PAS and the mandatory adoption advice, namely that it is no longer limited by the fact that counselling is to take place within the first five years of adoption. Now you can get it up to the child's 18th year. Because who says it's just in the early years you need advice? For some, it may not be necessary in the early years, but it will only arise later. For others, it will be the other way around. This flexibility is essential if the aim is to support adoption and the development of children. Another improvement in relation to adoption advice is that mandatory advice is given right before the removal and right after. After all, this is where the greatest change in family life is taking place and where the need for support for good association is most important. We also see it as a clear improvement that the competence to approve the continuation of an adoption process is transferred to the Ankestyrelsen and that the Ankestyrelsen has oversight of the adoption communication, that supervision is increased and that donations are also supervised so that we prevent indirect child trafficking. Most donations are given in the best sense and can help improve conditions where the children come from, which benefits the children who are adopted, but also those who become. For example: donations are used to provide consultancy services to work on linking children and adults at the orphanage, an essential and important prerequisite for the further development of children. We must work towards openness in the adoption process, both in order to ensure that adoption takes place properly, but also in order for the child to have as much history with him as possible, taking into account the culture of the country that gives the child. Can we then be sure that we have created a hundred percent safe system? No, I guess we never can. To this end, there are simply too many links and actors in the process. The intention of the legislation is to create a high standard and safety, and then we must follow the consequences of the new legislation, so that we are ready to adjust it if needed. We're gonna have to, among other things. ensure that children's rights are safeguarded so that the new legislation complies with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111211	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111220	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very much in favour of the possibility of international adoption. It has given thousands of orphans the opportunity for a better life with a fresh start with loving new parents. However, it goes without saying that this must always be done on the terms and conditions of children. Despite the fact that, unfortunately, more orphans and more street children have come into the world, fewer children have been released for adoption in recent years. It is a shame, as there are lots of loving parents, for example in Denmark, who are on the waiting list and are ready and would like to welcome the children. But the adoption system in Denmark has and has had some difficult conditions. There have been several scandals, including ethically dubious adoptions from Ethiopia, and there has been a root of the system and general distrust of it. The agreement of 2 October was a fresh start for the adoption area in Denmark. More funds were allocated to the area and the requirements of the agencies were tightened. It is all with the aim of providing the stability needed to be able to run adoption in Denmark on both a factual and a sound basis. That is the agreement that we are now pleased to be able to translate into legislation. In the Conservative People's Party we follow developments closely from here. We will keep a close eye on the two agencies, which have now become one, so that we can restore the confidence which, unfortunately, we have to say, has suffered a break. In future, we will follow closely that there is not only order in the economy but, more importantly, that there is also order in the ethical guidelines for the benefit of both children and, of course, adopters.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111411	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111418	I would like to ask you something, and perhaps it is almost factual, because the rapporteur starts by saying that this is about orphans. And I think there are a lot of people who actually have the idea that the children who are adopted to Denmark are orphans, live on the street. Is it the opinion of the rapporteurs that the majority of those who are taken to Denmark are orphans, i.e. genuine orphans?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111452	As rapporteur, I have not been involved in negotiating this agreement when it was negotiated at the time. But what I can say now is that the main purpose of adoption must always be to help children who are in a situation where there are no adults who can take care of them. It may be because the parents have died, or it may be because there are other conditions that exist and that mean that the parents cannot take care of the children; that may of course also be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111518	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111521	Well, then I can reveal that the vast majority of the children who are adopted to Denmark are not really orphans. You often get a picture that the most amazing thing for a child would be to come to Denmark and have some rich parents. But what happens most often is that parents are under pressure, cannot afford to have their own children and simply have to give children to orphanages. I would therefore like to ask whether it is Conservatives' view, regardless of whether they have negotiated or not, that international adoption should be the absolute last resort for a child and that it is better for children to be able to stay in the country from which they come, if possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111605	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111608	Of course, children should not be adopted to a country far away with other culture if that is not absolutely necessary. You do it today that you look into what other options there might be for the child. It is not, of course, because the first step is to take action and to give children up for adoption. When I stress that we have to follow some ethical guidelines in relation to this, it is precisely that we are not just per. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is proposing a number of amendments to the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. However, it is important that children, where there is no civil society or a family that can take over, should be given the opportunity to have a safe upbringing. After all, I think it is better that they get it from Danish parents, and so I do not really care whether they are rich or not; it must be on the rapporteur's own account. But their safe upbringing is of great concern to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111656	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023111706	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their comments and, in particular, to the alternative, which indicates that we would like to support this draft law, despite the fact that we have not been involved in the long negotiations we have had. And yes, they've been long. It is in fact over a year since we reached the political agreement, and we did so, as everyone confirms, on the basis of a very, very lengthy debate which came after a thorough overall analysis, and on the basis of an unusually educational study trip, where the whole of the Social Committee went to Ethiopia and had in-depth discussions with all parties in the field of adoption. Let me say straight away that my position is also that adoption is not an emergency aid scheme. It's not a human right to have a baby. In fact, I believe that growing up in a safe environment is a human right for a child, and that has been my crucial approach to the whole debate we have been through. I would have liked us to have reached the third reading before we were going to the parliamentary elections, because I know that there are a great many people affected by the lengthy negotiations we have had on this whole revision of the adoption system, which was certainly necessary. Now we are again at first reading, and I think it is important that we move forward now, and I can also hear from most of the rapporteurs that I agree with that. It goes without saying that the importance it has for a child to be adopted internationally makes enormous demands on the system and on the whole treatment of matters. And it is not only the Danish system; it is also the systems in the issuing countries with which the intermediaries cooperate. Our approach to this whole area must be based on respect for the area, not least out of respect for the children involved and their lives. There must be no doubt that consideration for children is essential. International adoption is there to help those children who have no better chance of help in their home country. The draft law here translates into the very broad political agreement of the autumn that with the proposal we believe that we will be able to ensure the future of the adoption system, among other things. To really strengthen the requirements for adoption communication and to strengthen the requirements for supervision in this whole area so that we meet the needs of the individual child in the best possible way. I am pleased to hear this broad support for the bill, and hopefully this will mean that the proposal can be adopted and enter into force on 1 January 2016. I would like to thank you for the debate and, of course, look forward to the continued discussion in committee, and it is clear that I am making myself available for the questions and comments that may fall there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112023	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112027	Thank you and thank you for your speech from the Minister. In fact, I would like to commend the fact that there are some really important principles that the Minister has cemented here, so that it is not a human right to have children, but that children have a human right to family life and a proper upbringing, and that should be a continuous one, and I very much agree with the Minister. Where I am so sorry and the Minister knows very well that we have not gone far enough in securing this system, and one of the things we have pushed for from the Enhedslisten, and which we also heard when we were together in Ethiopia, as a wish from there, was the separation of donations and adoptions, and instead we helped to build a proper child welfare system in Ethiopia separate from the adoptions, so that there is no indirect economic incentive. Couldn't the Minister explain why we haven't done this with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112129	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112131	Thank you for the question. I would like to confirm that the Enhedslisten rapporteur has, after all, played an active part in the negotiations and has also finally found that the whole system was not, as the Enhedslisten wanted, and that is why it must end up with the assumption that this bill will be rejected and I will end up with regret. We have taken hold with this debate on the economy, and it is true that we have not completely decoupled it. I think that the SF's rapporteur very well communicated here that donations will still be there, but that the intermediary organisations' access to helping work will be limited, so this is all about adoption aid. So this thing about running projects and everything else is very limited, so I think we have gone some way, but I recognise that we have not gone all the way that Enhedslisten had wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112229	Does the Enhedslisten want to speak? It's just getting in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112238	Thank you. That is absolutely correct, and that is why we still have this concern. The donations are, after all, one of the ways in which some of the problems that exist in the issuing countries could have been resolved. I would like the Minister to confirm that with this bill we are very much in favour of adjusting some of the problems here in the recipient country, but with regard to the problems in the issuing countries, for example, we have. We are still not given greater supervision, as we have, for example, been able to do. In the United States, where we can actually check some of the individual cases in cooperation with local authorities, the risk has not been greatly reduced for us to have children here who should not have been here and where it would have been best for them with something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112324	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112327	However, I simply do not agree with the rapporteur on this, because I believe that we are in fact making it clear that we are strengthening supervision and that we have also put our finger on the economy and how donations are handled, and that it is also being decoupled from actual aid work, that it has been clarified in a way that allows us to exercise better supervision than we can do with the old legislation. So I think we have gone a long way, and I hope that Enhedslisten will end up supporting this great complex anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112405	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112429	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112455	Thank you for that, President. This bill is, of course, a re-submission, the debate has taken place here before the election's discharge, but because of the election it lapsed and it has to be retabled. But it is also a bill, which is the implementation of a very, very broad agreement here in the Danish Parliament. As far as I could read out, it was all the parties that were elected to the Danish Parliament at that time that were included in it and which have also emerged after negotiations, but also thorough evaluations of the electoral procedure in Denmark. I would therefore just like to say briefly that, of course, we Social Democrats stand by that agreement and support this bill. There are three points I would like to highlight. One is that the bill here gives busy people better opportunities to contribute to the electoral process, because the polling stations will open one hour earlier. And it can mean something if you have to get to work and have time to go in and put your cross first. So this is something that is in demand, and I think that is sensible: the more people who vote in a democracy, the better. The second is the growth in the voices of letters. There are more and more Danes who vote in letters, and so far there has been an unresolved problem. Depending on when the letter was voted, there could be a problem in finding out who could be voted on, i.e. who was actually standing for the election. Now we are harmonizing the rules so that the candidate list is available when you vote in a letter, which means that you can then see who it is you can vote for. The last point on which the legislative work since first reading has also listened and, as it were, has been adjusted is in the dialogue with the Danish smaller islands, which rightly raised the problem of it here at 1 p.m. 8-opening where they say that, depending on how the transport to the island is, there can actually be very great difficulties. And there will then be a derogation for the islands. Now I am just waiting to hear how the islands react to it, but I have not heard anything from them, which means that it seems as if the very good solution has been found here too. So we think it is a good proposal that modernises the electoral law and makes it a little easier to come down and get your tick. For the sake of good order, I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, and say that the Radicals also support this bill. It would also be strange other when the agreement was made at the Minister's office of the radical party leader when he sat there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112751	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023112806	Thank you for that, President. This bill is a re-submission of a previous bill, and we have also had the debate earlier in the Chamber. The Danish People's Party believes that it is a modernisation of the electoral law, and that makes good sense. There are many initiatives in the bill, and these initiatives will both facilitate the administration of the election procedure, while taking account of the individual voters and contributors in the preparation and conduct of the election procedure. I do not want to list up all the various initiatives, but I want to highlight a few. The Danish People's Party has previously asked if there could be a public register, as protecting the political convictions of the individual citizen is a private matter, but unfortunately we have seen cases of people who have been hanged out publicly, and that is why we welcome this modernisation. The Danish People's Party has also advocated that the parties already represented on the city council or on a regional council should be exempted from collecting signatures for new poster lists. This will facilitate administration, both in terms of political bodies and administrative systems. Another of the shortcomings which have also been complained about during the last elections is that the posters have not been available when the letter vote is opened. In this way, citizens have not been able to obtain the names of the candidates nominated, and they were therefore forced to vote for the party only if the candidates were not known in advance, and since the number of votes in each election increases, it is important to adjust the reporting times so that the mailing list is available while opening the letter vote. The growing volume of correspondence votes has meant that the deadline for a letter vote will move forward one day, and on the last day there will also be the opportunity to vote in letters, which will be kept open from 8 a.m. 9 till 9:00. 16. This will also ease administrative pressure and ensure that all correspondence votes appear and are registered on election day. So the Danish People's Party thinks it is a very good agreement that we have got here, because we have re-examined many of the small challenges and clarified some inappropriateities in the current electoral law. Overall, this is for the benefit of the Danish people's government, so the Danish People's Party can of course support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113020	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113027	Thank you so much. To modernize something, I would like to say that it does not need to be good to modernise, because sometimes something old-fashioned can be good, but on this occasion I agree with the Danish People's Party that it is fine for us to modernise the electoral law, because there are some needs that have emerged from the evaluation we have made of local and European elections. There is quite a broad consensus on this in the Folketing, and we have even reached a political agreement. As Mr. Magnus Heunicke quite rightly said that it was concluded in Mrs Margrethe Vestager's office and we now agree on a number of adjustments. I do not want to go into all of them, but only on those I believe can interest most people. One of them probably has the most interest in some municipal association presidents around from the electoral associations, but there is, on the other hand, joyful news that we can bring home to them. It is the case that, prior to each municipal or regional council elections, they have had to traverse around and vote door bells to get people to sign a so-called poster list stating that the party that has been in the municipal council for the last 100 years or 150 years for that matter should also be allowed to stand for parliament next time. It is clear that in connection with these bachelor party lists, as they are called, where someone at a bachelor party agrees that it could be really fun to put the next groom up for the next municipal elections, one has to make sure that there are enough people behind it so that it can be avoided. But for real parties, if I may say so, which are already in the municipal council, it is reasonable that we should gather these lists. The Danish People's Party realized this a long time ago and therefore tabled a motion for a resolution when Bertel Haarder was a minister, but it was rejected. Then the Danish People's Party tabled the proposal again when we had a social democratic government and there it was rejected, but the very same government then tabled the proposal, and the new government has retabled it, so now we are all happy, and I think it is a very good idea that we should avoid the totally superfluous democracy. Then it will also be the case in future that the polling stations will open already at 1 p.m. 8 in the morning so that people can vote before they go to work. However, after the hard work of Flemming Damgaard Larsen, who unfortunately is no longer in the Danish Parliament, it is not until 1 p.m. 9 in the small islands, so that the ballot papers can be taken out by ferry. Then there is also the question of civil ombuds. It has so far been, and still is, the case that it is simply a bourgeois ombud to run for the municipal elections. If anyone thinks that it should seem a little strange to imagine that someone should be sitting against his will in a municipal council for four years, and fortunately that is not something we have examples of. But now we are turning reality into legislation too, so that that requirement is abolished, because that is not something that has any practical significance. So all in all, it is some excellent proposals for amendments that are being proposed with the bill and I recommend it for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113335	No one has asked for the floor. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113345	As several of the other rapporteurs have already mentioned, this is, after all, a re-submission of L 146 from the last session. The Enhedslist supports the proposal and many good examples of why it is a good proposal have been mentioned. In the Enhedslisten we have discussed two elements in particular which could pose a challenge, but yet we have ended up supporting the proposal as it stands. The first is the question of the publication of the lists of authors, that is to say, there is now, if I may say so, a clause that they will not be covered by the Public Access Act, which in practice means that in future it will not be possible to have access to lists of authors. After all, on the one hand, it is a fundamental consideration of openness in the electoral process and, on the other hand, it is a question of the right of citizens not to have their political opinions exposed. Both of these considerations are important, and it can, in fact, be almost impossible to reach a compromise between them. But we have then chosen, after careful consideration, to support what is intended here, namely to ensure that it is not possible to gain insight into the poster lists. The second is the question of abolishing the requirement to be present if you are already in the municipal council or the regional council. And we think it is good to abolish the requirement for those who are already represented in a municipal council or a regional council. It is a good, friendly and practical solution. It makes sense to say that if you are already represented in a municipal council or a regional council, you should not again prove your worth to the electorate. But one could also have a different attitude and say: would it not be more democratic, so to speak, to reset the conditions for all parties? When there are elections, it is not certain that for that reason one will simply be elected, that is, because one sits in a municipal council or a regional council or for that matter in the Folketing, where we have a similar rule. On the basis of that argument, it could be said that it was more democratic to reset everyone and to say that everyone should continue to make a poster list. But we think it makes the most sense and is a friendly solution, like saying that in the political situation and reality that we have, it does not make sense to say that one has to prove one's worth in that way. So all in all, these are some really fine changes and we can support them all. We think this is a good proposal. This will make electoral action easier, and it will make it possible to focus more on politics rather than on a lot of administrative procedures. A number of people will get easier by going and voting, and there are a lot of good things to say. In relation to the bureaucratic nature of this, we must hope that the easier rules will also allow citizens to participate more in the debates, but also in the electoral process, and this is also linked to the political discussions we have in the Folketing, about the municipalities and the conditions of the regions, with increasing centralisation, where the municipalities are subject to tight spending ceilings, which mean a reduction in welfare and may have a major impact on whether or not people want to engage. Because when you are involved in local or regional policy, it is about making a difference, and if all you are going to do is manage the Prime Minister's reduction in municipal budgets, then of course it will have a negative impact on people's desire to stand up. I don't doubt that for a second. This is a major debate which we took yesterday in connection with the first reading of the Finance Act, and it is a debate which will clearly continue for a very long time with the policy that the government has put forward, which does not call for a clash with centralisation in relation to the municipalities and the regions, and which will also mean massive cuts. But that part does not concern this bill, and we can definitely support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113737	No one has asked to speak and we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113745	The bill here will make it easier for parties already elected to municipal councils, city councils, to reappear. They don't have to collect posters again. It will also make it possible to stand for a party without it being publicly known that it is doing so, so that, like the election procedure, it can take place anonymously. And then the proposal will extend the opening hours in the voting rooms to start already at 1 p.m. 8:00 so that more people can vote before they have to meet at work. We support the fact that there will be less paperwork on resetting to municipal councils and that it will be easier for voters to vote, and that is why Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113837	No one has asked for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113848	I have been unspeakably looking forward to standing on this platform for the alternative and saying 'yes' to a bill, so I will do so. This is going to give us a more flexible electoral procedure and, in general, it is democratically very sensible. So, yes from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113905	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023113922	I shall not go so far as to do so, because the SF is also one of the parties behind the political agreement. The SF backs the bill because it contains a large number of amendments to the electoral laws which, on the one hand, simplify the administrative burden of holding elections and, on the other hand, make it easier for citizens to vote, allowing them to open the polling stations at 8 p.m. 8:00. At the same time, we would like to express our satisfaction at the fact that there has now finally been support for an old proposal from the SF to debureaucratize that already represented parties in the city and regional councils should not collect contributors. In relation to the consultation answers, we have among other things. attached to us by the Danish Regions' pointing out that the refusal to access the candidate lists could give access to a number of difficult border crossings. I hope we can clarify this problem and park it in committee. In addition, we have also noted DUF's concerns that the deadline to vote in a letter is now changed to three days before the elections that this would allegedly affect the turnout. I think the problem is of a limited nature and we have therefore also listened to what the KL and the Ministry have pointed out about the administrative benefits of increasing the deadline from 2 to 3 days. But that does not mean that we, as a society, should do nothing more to increase the turnout in society. In this context, we propose to repeat the success of the 2013 municipal elections, where through a joint out-the-vote campaign and efforts by the then Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, KL, Danske Regions and all parties of the Danish Parliament, the total turnout was raised. Finally, I would just like to say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114125	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114134	Thank you. I am really sorry that the rapporteur of the Left has left the room, because I would have liked to have signed up for this expression of bachelor party parties. I have to admit that I haven't heard that before, and I'm a little curious when we can see it recorded in the Danish dictionary. In the Conservative People's Party, we have been involved in concluding this agreement on electoral law, and by its very nature we are still backing it up. The bill concerns amendments to the Act on Elections to the Folketing, the Act on Election of Danish Members of the European Parliament, the Law on Municipal and Regional Elections and the Law on Financial Support for Political Parties. We consider it necessary to amend the laws because, in the light of past experience, it has been considered necessary to amend the law. Among other things, there are: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. For example, there have been queues at the polling stations late in the evening, and therefore it makes great sense that we are now extending the opening hours. In addition, we believe that it is an advantage at all times to reduce the administrative burdens involved in elections, and we therefore also welcome that part. So we Conservatives support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114244	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114249	Let me start by thanking all the rapporteurs, including those who are very precise and brief speakers. I think they are sensible. Since you agree on things, you don't necessarily have to drag it out. It is a bill that, as everyone says, is known substance. It was after an evaluation of the local and regional elections in 2013 and with the experience of the European Parliament elections and the referendum in 2014 that we could see that there was a need for some adjustments to how we hold elections here in Denmark. And back in 2014 it was precisely that all the parties in the Folketing then concluded a political agreement, which is reflected in this bill. Then it was just that there was a parliamentary election between, which is why the changes have now been a little while along the way. However, I look forward to the adoption of the draft law now, hopefully soon, so that we can bring the whole electoral legislation into effect. Thank you for your comments. I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114403	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. No one objects to that and that is why I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114436	The debate is open. The word is hereby given to Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114457	Thank you. It is a great pleasure to be standing in this Chamber today, both because of the proposal we have to deal with, but also because it is a pleasure to be able to stand here on the platform for the first time. Denmark is known in the world for its green transition. We have long had the lead when it comes to smart green solutions that provide both Danish jobs and which are also good for the environment and climate, and we have also been at the forefront when it comes to cogeneration. We Social Democrats want to continue to be at the forefront when it comes to green technology, green jobs and green conversion, but we also know, of course, that the green transition can present challenges along the way, as we do, among other things. has been able to see from companies and horticultures with industrial combined heat and power plants, which today's draft law is about. For them, low electricity prices in the production of very wind power mean a small incentive to continue co-production of electricity and heat, a cogeneration production which is otherwise very energy-efficient and environmentally sensible. Therefore, the purpose of the draft law is also targeted support for competitive industries and horticulture with natural gas-fired industrial cogeneration plants. It is absolutely crucial for us in the Social Democratic Party that we give a helping hand with the support system to preserve Danish jobs. But the subsidy that we are dealing with today has been a long time in the process. The aid scheme for industrial cogeneration plants until 2020 was already agreed under the previous government in the Energy Agreement in 2012 and was extended by the Growth Agreement in 2013. We are therefore pleased that the European Commission has now finally approved the aid scheme, and we can support the clarifications contained in the legislative proposal, among other things. is about the publication of beneficiaries and grants and the fact that there is a statement of production costs in order to avoid overcompensation. We are pleased that the bill ensures that we can now receive the aid retroactively until 2013, as soon as possible, just as we are pleased that we can continue to stand together to help industrial and horticultural companies in Denmark and to do so in a green way. However, if we are finally to raise our eyes a little, I cannot help but add that it is also a pity that the government's ambitions in the green area do not go so far; that the government seems to be postponing the reform of the tax system in the energy sector, which is also intended to promote the green transition, and that the government's draft budget and announcements in the green area in general are leading us to throw down the green driver's shirt. But in the proposal here, fortunately, the government is on the right track and, of course, we will work to keep the government there. In the Social Democratic Party we support the proposal and we look forward to a speedy committee reading. I have promised on behalf of the Radical Left to say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114746	No one has asked to speak and I thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023114755	The aim of L 11, which we are dealing with today, is, as the previous rapporteur mentioned, to ensure that this system of State aid for the electricity generation of industrial cogeneration plants can enter into force. It is an arrangement which has been agreed very broadly between the parties here in the Folketing; in fact, I think it is only the Liberal Alliance that is not included in that agreement, and then, of course, the alternative, because one has only come into the Folketing at a later date. Otherwise, however, it is a very wide-ranging spectrum of parties which support the system which is to enter into force. It is rather paradoxical that we are standing here today with a first reading of L 11, because the scheme was already introduced by law back in spring 2015, but the great chief judge down in Brussels, called the Commission, has in the meantime decided that the way in which the scheme was organised and which a very broad majority in the Folketing has thought it should be organised, the Commission cannot accept, and they have therefore pointed out that some changes need to be made before the scheme does not conflict with EU rules. In the Danish People's Party, we find it unacceptable that the EU system should have the right to demand changes in Danish legislation. What is most surprising is that the Commission believes that only the gas-fired cogeneration plants should have access to this aid, and therefore not cogeneration plants firing coal or oil or green energy for that reason, because the Commission does not seem to think that they should be supported. Another thing that the Commission has also demanded is that these works should not receive any other form of aid. In the Danish People's Party, we would have liked the legislation we adopted in the spring to be the one that stood firm, but, unfortunately, the law is designed as it is, the system cannot enter into force, and so the works cannot receive the support they had expected, unless we adopt the amendments that the Commission has requested. Therefore, for practical reasons alone, we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill here, so that the arrangement that we support, and which many parties here in the Danish Parliament support, can also come into force. Once again, however, I think we have been illustrated by the fact that the EU system has too much power and interferes in too many small cases as well. With those words, I must say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115054	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115119	In connection with the examination of Bill L 11, the law on the amendment of electricity supply and Energinet.dk, the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal. The draft law is the implementation of the March 2012 Energy Agreement and of the 2013 Growth Agreement. The draft law provides for a clarification of industrial combined heat and power plants that fire with natural gas and have the possibility of receiving aid. The implementation of the draft law is necessary for the entry into force of the grant scheme for natural gas-fired cogeneration plants and for Denmark to comply with the terms of the European Commission's decision approving the aid scheme for the production of electricity at natural gas-fired industrial cogeneration plants. The draft law provides for the authorisation of the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate to lay down the administrative rules for the grant scheme, as well as the supervision and control of the payment of grants. Thus, the Minister may, inter alia: ensure that grants do not lead to overcompensation. The purpose of the grant scheme is to grant subsidies to natural gas-fired industrial cogeneration plants, because they are under pressure because the electricity price has not increased as much as the price of natural gas. It is expected that the proposal will have positive economic and environmental consequences and the grant scheme will improve the economic situation of the installations. Furthermore, the grant scheme provides an incentive for the continued operation of more environmentally friendly and economically better co-production of electricity and heat compared to separate electricity generation and heat production, for it is estimated that co-production has a significant fuel saving. In the light of these circumstances, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115321	No one has asked to speak, so I thank the rapporteur. I'm gonna ask Søren Egge Rasmussen to take the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115329	Thank you. After all, the bill is about implementing an increased subsidy for industrial combined heat and power of 30 million. kr. Is it reasonable to increase the subsidy? This is difficult to answer clearly because we are still missing the grant and tax analysis, which should have been completed in 2014 and which the new Minister of Energy will not disclose when to be available. I would urge the Minister to present those parts of the analysis that are relevant to this bill. The draft law states that it is both an expiry of the 2012 Energy Agreement and the 2013 Growth Plan. Given the evolution of the electricity price and the gas price since 2012, is it reasonable to change the subsidy? The proposed grant scheme of the bill stems from the 2012 energy settlement and it is referred to that NO x Now the government will remove NO x What impact on the economy of the natural gas-fired industrial cogeneration plants included in the bill will NO x be better targeted at installations that form part of solutions where electricity and heat production is managed taking into account wind power production? These are the aspects that the Enhedslisten will have addressed in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs before the second reading of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115459	No one else has asked for the floor. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115506	Thank you. The amendment we are discussing here is, of course, a very good example of what happens when you make an energy settlement that assumes that politicians can know anything about price developments on fuels and associated technologies 8 years in the future. I have stopped counting all these many repair proposals, where the solar canal's stop and go regime is probably the best known example. Time and again, we need to change tariffs and rates so that no one in this kingdom can figure out what's up and down. We are therefore discussing a new subsidy which we must grant to natural gas-fired plants under quite specific conditions laid down by the European Union. We do not like subsidies or the European Union, let that be said immediately. Nor do we like the planned economy as expressed in the energy agreement. We are now in a situation where we have to repair a bad thing, we almost have to do it with a new evil, as long as we operate in this subsidy and tax regime, which has already been mentioned. The Liberal Alliance supported the growth agreement that paved the way for this opportunity to help some specific professions, and we did so because a number of sectors, especially horticulture, were in a mess and had very difficult times. And that is the central element of our argument. We also think that the co-production of electricity and heat is a sensible starting point, and we would like this opportunity to be maintained and not obscured by the many subsidy and tax conditions. And that is why we end up voting in favour of the proposal. Perhaps the best way to illustrate how wrong this regulation has been is to read out the draft law, and I think I will end with that. And keep your ears stiff! By Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to members of their families moving within the Community, 2, i.e. the very central provision, is shown as follows: • When the average monthly market price referred to in Paragraph 59 (1) is used. 2, is 13.453 øre per. kWh or less, the basic amount shall be indexed by the The basic amount is reduced linearly at a market price above 13.453 øre per year. kWh, so that it lapses when the market price is 41,582 øre per. kWh. The basic amount is 3 øre per year. kWh per unit 1 January 2013 and increases per year 1 January 2014 to 7 øre per. kWh. The basic amount is calculated on the basis of the electricity generation of the installation in 2011, less the necessary own consumption for the electricity generation. If there is no electricity generation for more than 4 weeks, the basic amount will be determined on the basis of the electricity generation in 2010 if the plant is able to label it. Then I won't wear out any more of the Members. But that is how we behave when we have lost track of energy taxes and subsidies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115840	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115902	Thank you. After all, what the rapporteur has read out indicates that we should not give too much subsidies. And it is reasonable, in fact, that if the electricity price is very high, you should not grant subsidies. All this stuff might seem complicated. I think so myself, but it's fair that we keep looking critically at what kind of grants we give. That is also why I look forward to a committee procedure in which we go deeper into whether this has been worked together in the right way, and I would be happy to do so from the analysis which we have not been presented with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023115931	To this it can be said that the analysis has been waiting for years, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also mentioned in his speech. We have also asked the previous government about it, I do not know how many times. And I think the explanation is that this analysis can't explain what to do. We're in a swamp in this area. You try to solve one problem in one place, you get two others somewhere else. If it had been that simple, that analysis would have come a long time ago. In other words, it is very uncomfortable to have to give an even clearer illustration that this is a piece of work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120012	There are no further comments. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120022	Thank you. Denmark is in the middle of an important transition from a fossil combustion-based energy system to an electricity-based renewable energy system, and in this transition it is crucial that Denmark invests minimally in further fossil technologies and, instead, mainly in renewable energy technologies as well as in a system development that can support an increasing proportion of uneven sources. During the transition period up to 2050, however, there is a need for a well-considered effort on the right transition technologies, some of which are based on fossil energy technologies. Natural gas is one of these technologies, which offers great advantages in relation to the combustion of solid fossil fuels, both pollution-related and systemically; pollution-related, because gas burns much cleaner, especially in start-up situations; just think of the difference between lighting up at home in a gas barbecue compared to a charcoal grille and systemically, because gas can be distributed via the unique Danish natural gas network, a resource we have invested large for many years and which in itself carries the potential for distribution and use of biogas from slurry and organic waste, but also systemically, because gas in the transition years can be used in heavy transport in trucks, buses, ferries, etc. The purpose of the scheme must be kept in mind: 1) to stop technology switching from gas-fired cogeneration to clean heat production or to solid fuels; and 2) to ensure that technologies supporting the conversion to renewable energy are phased in instead of gas over a short period of time at a number of plants. In particular, there is the shift to heat pumps of all sizes from household earth heating systems in sparsely populated areas to large heat pumps in district heating in densely populated areas. Therefore, the alternative intends to support the proposal, but stresses the fact that the grant scheme is being looked at and evaluated after 1-2 years to ensure that no overcompensation is being made. This may have the effect of postponing the switch to heat pumps in particular. During the support period, a plan should also be drawn up for which plants should continue as gas-fired cogeneration installations for back-up operation in the energy system and which should phase out gas and switch to other more sustainable solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120245	No one has asked to speak, so I thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120303	Since the SF rapporteur could not be here today, I take the speech but, of course, welcome questions. This bill is a follow-up to the 2012 energy settlement that had and has SF's full support. At that time, one of the reasons for a subsidy scheme was the NO x We support the bill because we believe that simultaneous production of heat and electricity is in general the socio-economic and environmental best way of using fuel. SF also believes that it is important to ensure that subsidies, like taxes, are in the right shape. We will therefore make sure that account has been taken of the fact that NO x It is, of course, deeply regrettable that the analysis of taxes and subsidies, which was also agreed in the Energy Agreement 31⁄2 years ago, is not published by the new Left Government, although it has been completed, and even though the current Minister, as rapporteur before the elections, called for the analysis several times. So, unfortunately, we are now in a situation where the Danish Parliament has to decide on a subsidy scheme without having access to the results of an analysis of the current taxes and subsidies. That is why we in the committee are going to ask a few questions, because what does it mean for the subsidy scheme that the government will remove NOx?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120425	No one has asked to speak, so I thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120449	This bill is, of course, the implementation of an agreement concluded in the energy conciliation circle, which has been postponed since the European Commission's approval of the scheme was indeed awaited. The approval indicates that the financial contribution may be granted up to 2020. This bill contains three different elements in such headings, and the legal text specifies that the aid is earmarked for the works fired by natural gas, and also gives the Minister a number of authorisations, among others. to lay down rules on the supervision and control of the payment of aid and requirements on the content of applications and, on the one hand, to correct an error concerning the validity of the provision regulating network operators' ability to guard against bad payers. We agree with all of this in the Conservative People's Party. We are pleased to be involved in ensuring conditions which mean that we achieve the environmental benefits of co-production of heat and electricity at industrial cogeneration plants. As can also be seen from the legal material, it is estimated that there is a significant saving in fuel. With these positive comments, we look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120610	No one has asked to speak and I thank the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior who, as stated, takes the matter to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120619	That is correct and thank you for that, Madam President. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law here. As has been shown, the main purpose of the draft law is that the grant scheme for the electricity generation of natural gas-fired industrial cogeneration plants may enter into force in accordance with the European Commission's approval of the scheme from July 2015. The subsidy scheme has already been adopted by the Danish Parliament back in June 2012, but has not yet entered into force, as we have waited for the European Commission's approval. The approval of the European Commission from July 2015 shall cover only the natural gas-based plants. This means that, in 2012, the design of the Electricity Act covering all industrial cogeneration plants, irrespective of fuel types, needs to be modified to ensure compliance with the European Commission's approval. With the adoption of the bill, it will be possible for natural gas-fired industrial cogeneration plants to receive retroactive aid. The works may receive support from 1 January 2013 until 31 December 2020. Let me take this opportunity to call for the legislative proposal to be dealt with quickly in committee so that subsidies can begin to be paid as soon as possible this year. Finally, on behalf of the other minister, I should like to point out that the draft law also corrects an error concerning the validity of the provision of the law on electricity supply which deals with the handling of bad payers by network operators. With these comments, I would like to ask for a continued favourable treatment of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120815	No one has asked for the floor. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak on this matter at all, and that is why I consider the debate to be closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and, if there is no objection, it has been adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120835	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023120913	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal here is, of course, one in the series of legislative proposals that have not yet been finalised, and that is why I am not going to repeat it all here either, but I will nevertheless bear in mind some of the things we are adjusting here in relation to gambling legislation. After all, this is the first time we have been adjusting gambling legislation since liberalisation in 2012. And some of the things I think it is particularly worth noting here are the night closure of slot machines, so that we are actually making an active effort to combat gambling addiction. We know from recommendations that the fact that you can stand all night playing is one of the things that is difficult for people who are affected by gambling and people who are at risk. As a side benefit here, we are also fighting some of the black work that takes place at night in the places where slot machines stand. Then there are a number of other adjustments to the current legislation, fees and charges, etc. in relation to online gambling, where we are trying to create a more fair competitive situation, so that small gaming providers have a chance to compete with the larger ones. Finally, as something new, there has also been an adjustment in relation to the poker games of private people, among others. in relation to the winning size, i.e. some minor adjustments, which have also been requested. But all in all, this is based on a political agreement concluded by the then SR government with DF, SF, Liberal Alliance and Conservatives back on 11 December 2014. And that is why, of course, the Socialists support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023121110	No one has asked for the floor, so I thank the rapporteur and give the floor to Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023121120	As mentioned by the previous rapporteur, these two legislative proposals are concerned with the re-submission of proposals which were dealt with before the parliamentary elections and which were not adopted. That is why we have the treatment again here today. The Danish People's Party is part of the agreements behind the legislative proposals, so we can of course support them. I think that the Socialist rapporteur very well reviewed what the content of it is, so I will not go through all the details Slavically, but will just make a few cuts on some of the major things in the legislative proposals. One is that we remove the possibility of reductions in the tax on distributions. When some of these companies, which have the one-armed thieves, have to pay a tax, they can get a reduction of 75% if they distribute to a local non-profit association. It could be the billiards club or other associations. This system has proved to be a great deal of fraud, which has led us to make a temporary arrangement with this bill, until we can then get back together in the circle behind the proposal to find a good and more permanent solution so that we can still ensure that these funds can go out to the good purposes that are around the associations, but at the same time in a way that we ensure that there is no such significant fraud as has been the case with the old system. Another part of the proposals is to introduce night closing of gaming halls with winning slot machines. It's like... the rapporteur before me said, in order to limit gambling dependence. In concrete terms, it will be ensured that they are closed from 1 p.m. 24:00 till 12:00. 7:00 in the morning, and that is because you want to give those who suffer from gambling an opportunity to have a break in the game, so hopefully they can reconsider whether it is so wise to sit and play so much. You could say that as a sort of compensation for the gaming halls, we are doing so, we are raising the deposit that can be played for and that today is 50 cents where you can get a prize of 300 kroner. It has not been adjusted since 1987. So we set it up to be able to play for 1 kroner. per deposits and that you can get a prize of DKK 600. I do not want to spend time discussing all the other small steps in the legislative proposals, because we support them, but I would just like to mention one thing that we would like to have a look at in committee. This is about the consultation answer we received at first reading before the elections from the Danish Automat Industry Association, which wanted to make an administrative relief for them, because today they pay a fixed amount per year per year. slot machines, but where they would like to get it distributed on every month, not to get rid of cheaper than the amount of fees and charges they pay, but because it will simply be an administrative relief for them. And I think that makes sense. I also noticed that the Conservatives said this last time at first reading, and we will, of course, try to give the administrative relief from these legislative proposals. This is something we will return to in committee, but we can say that, overall, the Danish People's Party can support these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023121438	No one has asked for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023121445	Thank you for the floor. Today, as has been said, we are working together with two legislative proposals which will implement the agreement on gambling legislation concluded by the previous government in December 2014 with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, Conservatives and, for part of the agreement, also the Liberal Alliance. And that's the part called L 14. Although this is a re-submission, I would now like to mention a subject in this draft law which is slightly different from the original proposal. The proposal provides for a relaxation of the rules for poker tournaments, so that two poker tournaments will now be held every day and hold ranking tournaments and higher tournament fees will be allowed. In this way, we believe that an even better agreement is being proposed than was already in place, and on this basis we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023121540	No one has asked for the floor. I would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023121558	We co-operate with L 14 and L 15. I will start with L 14, which is, of course, about an adjustment of gambling legislation in terms of betting and online casino. There are various elements in the bill that I would like to comment on. There is a change in the fee structure for the gambling authority's supervision of betting and online casino. That is because the structure we have at the moment has not really been shown to reflect the market. There are a few large gaming providers and they pay a relatively low fee compared to their gaming revenue, while the smaller gaming providers pay a relatively high fee compared to their gaming revenue. Here, the bill will then result in a fairer fee structure, which means that the major gaming providers will not have an increased competitive advantage. It's like a Robin Hood proposal. This is, of course, something we from the Enhedslisten can support. However, we do not think there is any reason why the change needs to be revenue-neutral. I would also like to comment on the fact that, overall, the draft law actually means less revenue for the state. We really think that gambling is fine. It's funny, and it's amusing to play. But how can it be that something as useless as gambling should cost the Treasury money in a situation where in the draft budget we just had a debate on yesterday a lot was said about the fact that the box is empty and where we see that the government has put forward proposals that massive cuts should be made in the municipalities? Here I would like to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we should not then put forward a draft law here, L 14, which would mean less revenue for the state on something so useless, yet entertaining for many people as gambling. What we can see from the draft law is that there will be a one-off effect, an expense of 45 million. kr. In 2016, and thereafter, the lasting effect, i.e. the lower income for the state, be 7 million. kr. This means that between now and 2020, this amendment will actually mean an additional cost of 80 million. kr. I think we could have spent 80 million. kr. On something other than exactly this. In any case, I would say that when we are dealing with the gambling sector, we should not take money from our common welfare, which is what we are really going to do here, because we only have the money we have, if I may say so. Frankly, we think that is a bit of a pity about L 14. Then there is the question of the length of the tax period, which is changed from one week to one month. That's because, if it's only 1 week, then there are a few weeks when there may be some very big payouts, there may be some players who suddenly win a lot of money. However, it is not possible to transfer a negative gross income from one tax period, one week, to another, and by extending it to one month, but, of course, it allows the deduction to be taken for a longer period. We do, of course, think this is sensible from the outset, but again: the fact that, overall, this means that there will be more expenditure for the state in connection with this bill, we find it very unfortunate. There are some different other changes that we also think are fine in L 14, but overall we are not really in favour of L 14 as it is here. Then there's L 15. That's another case. After all, it contains a large number of proposals, good proposals, which Enhedslisten can all support. These are a large number of small adjustments, all of which contain improvements. It is a question of abolishing the possibility of cheating other rapporteurs have referred to the fact that it should not be possible to make an improper reduction in taxes and make agreements on return commission and illegal compensation, cheating, as we have seen. We can, of course, fully support the abolition of this possibility of cheating, just as we can fully support the abolition of the possibility of gambling around the clock, the possibility of 24 hours a day, in order to combat gambling. Then there are also a large number of other parts of the proposal that are sensible: an extension of the tax minister's power to lay down rules for combating money laundering and agreed gambling, that is, match fixing, and also that the permission to set up and operate profit-making slot machines could be revoked if it is the case that the permit holder grossly or repeatedly does not specify fees. There are a large number of good elements, and we can, in fact, support them all, so we can support L 15. L 14 Enhedslisten cannot support and is negatively disposed towards as it is, but L 15 we can support around.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122104	No one has asked for the floor. I would like to thank the rapporteur, and then it is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122117	We are working together on two proposals based on two agreements with separate parties. One is the Liberal Alliance, the other is not part of it. In the last session the Ministry of Taxation had put forward a proposal but had forgotten to take into account the fact that there were two different areas of agreement. This seems to have been corrected by these two separate legislative proposals. This allows us to vote in favour of one and the other, so that it is possible to live up to the agreements that have been made, and that is a good thing. The first agreement of which the Liberal Alliance is a part contains some liberalisations of betting and online casinos that have been demanded by the industry. They are very sensible, and that is why we would like to vote in favour of them. The second agreement also contains some sensible liberalisations, but unfortunately also some unreasonable tightenings. There are, among other things: a new closing law for Denmark, one might say. After decades of discussion between the public debate and the Danish Parliament on closing laws, which we have in the area of shops and which have largely been abolished, this is now about the introduction of a new closing law, namely for venues and gaming halls. After 2:00 a.m. As you know, 24.00 cannot be open, even if they want to, and even if there are people who would like to play after 24.00. 24:00. As you know, not all people go to bed early. Some people are more nocturnal than others, and among these people there are some players who would like to play at night, while others prefer to go to bed early and get up early in the morning to go down and play then. So we see no reason why in this way there is discrimination between A and B people in gambling legislation. The reason why it is necessary to do so in the interests of gambling and so on, which has developed the abuse of gambling, does not seem to us to be right either. As you know, the gambling market is in a fantastic development, you can say where more and more things are going on online, and anyone who thus leaves an arcade to go home can easily continue his playing by just instead of going online. That's one thing. The second point is that abuse should not be stopped by closing the law on legal services. Imagine if we were going to ban pubs from being open after 2:00 a.m. 24.00, because there are alcoholics in this country. Of course we do not, of course we do not either, because there are plenty of people who would like to enjoy a beer two or three times after 2 o'clock. 24.00, without having any abuse whatsoever. It would be a severe restriction on the freedom of these people if they could not be allowed to go to the bar after 8 a.m. 24:00. In the same way, there are lots of people who are not gambling, but who want to go to a gambling hall after 8:00. 24.00, and for the sake of their freedom, we should not introduce a closing law for gambling after 8 a.m. 24:00. Just as in the case of alcohol treatment, the focus must be on those who have abused, that is. The alcoholics must also be in the same way with gambling, namely that the focus is on the gamblers and not on all sorts of others. Every piece of legislation should aim to ensure that legislation is so restrictive that it only affects those who need legislation and does not restrict the freedom of all sorts of other people who do not have this need of guardianship on the part of the Folketing. Finally, the bill here contains that money which previously could be spent at the gambling halls is now being sent in centrally, and from there for a transitional period is being distributed to the same people who have previously received them, i.e. the locals, so that the money should be distributed locally for benevolent purposes determined by the local gaming hall, but now they have to be collected centrally, and so we get a layer upstairs. The idea is that at some point there will be officials in the Ministry of Culture and decide entirely what will happen to them, who will have and who will not have. We are, of course, opposed to this. So for these reasons, and because of the night closure, we cannot support L 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122547	No one has asked to speak, so I thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122555	Thank you. The alternative supports the proposals. We have not been involved in the negotiations that led to the implementation of the agreement, but what we are aware of is that it is easier for gaming providers to report, that measures are being taken to reduce fraud, and, in particular, that night closures are being introduced in gaming halls to ensure that game-dependent players have a breathing space from their games recommended by several practitioners. Against this background, we must support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122623	No one has asked to speak, so I thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122641	I think that was a close record in short speeches by the rapporteur. I'll see if I can beat it. The Radical Left can also support the two proposals for the many good reasons that have already been mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122643	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor, and then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122700	After all, this is the follow-up to an earlier agreement where we agreed to abolish the 95 per cent reduction. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. There has been a long discussion about how we could do it best, because it is clear that this is going to create some more bureaucracy on the one hand, but on the other hand there was just so much trouble with cheating that we had to do something. That is why, of course, I would also like to call on the Minister to give us, at some point, an evaluation of how this works with the non-profit-making associations out there, in relation to the fact that they are getting the money that they are now going to have, and which we all agreed was a great strength in the system we had before. So I hope the Minister will give that to the committee at some point. The second part of this is the problem of the high rate of gambling, and that is why we supported it too, because it was important for the SF that we had night closures introduced. We think there are plenty of other good proposals in this, and we are, of course, still supporting it. Then I also hope that, in the very specific cases we have heard of • e.g. with SIFA bingo in Aalborg, where there are still various reports about how it works and how it can also be assured that such good measures in the long term will not have to close and turn off, because that was never the intention of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122836	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. Then I'd like to ask Sir. Brian Mikkelsen to take the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023122843	After all, the basis is persistent discussions between the then SR government and the opposition. For there was a loss, yes, almost fraud and humbug in relation to the distribution of some of the funds we are talking about here. That is why we are in favour of the legislative proposals. We ourselves helped to reach an agreement with the then SR government on a good basis after the SR government had taken a good initiative to clean up and ensure that the money goes to the right places. Because this is a win-win situation in the sense that we ensure better conditions for the machine industry, while at the same time giving the right recipients the money. I also think it is important to make it clear here that there are also improvements for the industry. You get, for example. raised the current bet limit and winning limit to DKK 1, respectively. and 600 kroner. One of the things that the industry has mentioned, which has also been discussed in the past and which I think should be looked at, is their payment deadlines. Well, they operate with some other deadlines than the SKAT itself does, per. It would make it much, much easier for the industry if they could settle in that way, rather than from the former borders of the SKAT. There I think we should take account of the industry in order to make life easier for them. However, the Conservative People's Party can support both proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123018	No one has asked for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123027	Thank you very much. And thank you for the Bills. The proposals are intended to create a link between Danish and Greenlandic legislation, and the matter has been dealt with in Greenland, where the Finance and Taxation Committee in Inatsisartut has accepted them with amendments because there has been a discrepancy between the Greenlandic and Danish texts. After all, the proposals have as a starting point a positive aim: to create orderly frameworks for betting, online casino, distributions, slot machines and poker tournaments. Inuit Ataqatigiit endorses the proposals in their present form. Ludomani has a certain spread in Greenland, which is why it is important to keep it in mind when the proposals are being discussed, but also when they are being implemented. A lot of research has been done in the area in Greenland, which shows that there is more gambling in Greenland than in Denmark, but at the same time it is also an overlooked challenge in Greenland, which has a number of consequences in relation to children and families of those who have gambling. The amendments in L 14 are mainly technical in nature, which Inuit Ataqatigiit can only support. However, it is not so clear why the annual statements will not be published in the future, but that they will only be sent to the gaming authorities in the future. Amendments in L 15 aim to prevent fraud against distribution, which Inuit Ataqatigiit can only support. We also welcome the fact that the opening of gaming halls at night is finally closed, but we do not have gaming halls as such, but it is solved in a different way. Thank you very much for the suggestions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123228	No one has asked for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123237	First of all, I would like to thank you for the good re-examination of the proposal in this Chamber today. It is true that most of the rapporteurs have referred to a virtually identical re-submission of the two proposals, with a few simple adjustments, among others. it's about a little more freedom for people who privately hold poker tournaments. I would also like to acknowledge that a broad majority in the Folketing, in other words in the previous Parliament, has agreed and has concluded two broad agreements on the adjustment and amendment of the Game Act which have proved necessary. This is not something for which I can take credit as a tax minister, it is for the previous government, but all the time that the Left is part of this broad political agreement, we are of course still fully aware of the content of the two proposals. On 1 January 2012, the new gambling legislation entered into force. The significant change was that bets and online casinos were liberalised so that several gambling providers were allowed to offer bets and online casinos in Denmark. In the light of the experience gained with the liberalised games, some of the legislation needs to be adapted. One agreement is therefore about these adjustments, and it is therefore particularly about changing the fees for betting and online casinos, so that there is a better correlation between the fees and the turnover of gambling providers. That there is proportionality between the two things, i.e. that there is a more reasonable link between the fee charged and the turnover that one has, creates a more equal and better competitive situation between the gambling providers and at least underpins one of the Government's wishes, and I believe that is also the wish of the previous government to liberalize gambling legislation, namely free competition on equal terms for consumers. The second part of the agreement is that part that the Liberal Alliance is not part of, and it is quite fair that we put an end to cheating on the distribution, while at the same time ensuring that associations continue to receive money for the good work they do. Instead of reductions in the levy, a temporary scheme is established whereby the associations which have previously received distributions will apply for grants. In this way, as a number of rapporteurs have said, we will ensure that the money ends up in the pockets of the right people, thereby supporting the great work done by volunteers in the community and providing a solid basis for establishing a permanent arrangement later on, and we will then have to negotiate on this which will create even better conditions for voluntary association life. As a minister, I would like to stress that this is the local voluntary life of association. There may of course be different wishes from different parties, but that will be my starting point. We should not forget that voluntary organizations, both at the national and local level, are doing a great deal of work to the benefit of all of us, and we must, of course, ensure this to the extent possible. Then there is another part of the agreement, which has also been mentioned by a number of rapporteurs, which is about the strengthened action against gambling addiction. It is agreed to introduce a requirement that gaming halls with slot machines should keep closed between midnight and midnight. 7:00 in the morning, and this must therefore help to limit the spread and extent of gambling. We need to take gambling seriously. Violence can be devastating to the individual and can also be devastating to an entire family. As a Liberal as such, I understand the objections which, among other things, have been raised. Liberal Alliance has done, but an agreement like this is about making some compromises, and a compromise like this has been a strong desire of a number of other parties. That is why we can easily see ourselves in government and in the Left, just as we could when the agreement was concluded. Last year, a broad majority of the Danish Parliament chose to allocate money to two major gambling surveys, and when the results of the studies are available, then we have an informed basis on which to determine the future of gambling, and this will of course be done in close cooperation with the parties voting for the proposal. In other words, the present legislative proposal will address the challenges that have arisen without compromising on the aims of gambling legislation, and will implement more of the industry's demands for the adjustment of gambling legislation. I look forward to the further examination of the committee and will endeavour to answer the questions that are being asked as soon as possible, otherwise I can do so orally here today. However, I would like to thank you for your broad support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123713	For the time being, one person has asked to speak, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123719	Thank you. Now it's not only of what to say, local patriotic reasons, but we got a lot of inquiries when we made this deal from SIFA TV Bingo, because it has a huge impact on a community that this money can come out and work for the benefit of all the volunteers. At that time, we could not get a very clear answer as to what actually happened, because we were told there will be an announcement to ensure that SIFA TV Bingo can survive and there may also be other cases out there that we haven't heard of yet and so I just want to hear the minister if he wants to make sure through his ministry that of course something like this doesn't have to shut down. After all, it is the whole idea of the distributions to ensure that voluntary clubs and sports organisations can continue out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123819	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123820	Thank you. I have taken note of a broad majority in the Danish Parliament who are working to find a solution for the SIFA, and the former tax minister also worked on this. The solution was to do so in announcements, and I have been somewhat sceptical about it, because I would rather see it in the context of a number of other things and involve the parties behind the agreement in finding a lasting and sustainable solution to the SIFA's problem. There are also some other things in the announcements that I could choose to make, i.e. that more people are allowed to enter the lottery market, but that has some derived effects for some of those who are currently there also the distribution of what size voluntary associations and interest groups are allowed to do these things. And there I am starting from the need to safeguard and protect voluntary association life and to be careful not to professionalise this area, which has been set up to further open up in some of these notices. So that question and the SIFA problem position is something that I would like to raise with the parties behind the agreement in the new year, when, moreover, we also have an evaluation and I think that is what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen asked about, in other words, whether the evaluation of the distribution area in general, where we can see things in a context and then find a lasting solution to all the problems that are then, in a hopefully broad conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123945	I see it as a guarantee from the Minister that a solution will be found as long as, of course, a majority in the Folketing backs it up, and I have no doubt that otherwise something new should have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023123958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124002	Yes, to the extent that it is something that can be contained within the law, we can do a lot of things. If it is something that requires legislation, then the Folketing must include, and if there is a majority of 90 mandates, then at least it is not the tax minister who will be opposed to finding a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124016	No one else has asked for the floor, and no one else has asked for the floor at all, so we will conclude this debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124037	We are now opening the negotiations, and the word goes first to Mr Beazley. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124058	Thank you. I have promised to speak on behalf of Jesper Petersen, who is unable to be present. The bill we are now debating is, in all its simplicity, about someone losing their house, but also their reason, because the house is crashing into the sea, and that is obviously unfortunate for those who are exposed to it. More unfortunately, it is also that they can risk paying land debts for up to 2 years after this event occurs, and it goes without saying that it seems quite unreasonable. We have therefore proposed in the past that it should not, of course, be the case that you have to pay the ground for a house and a land that is no longer on earth, as it were, but is in the sea. Therefore, with this bill, the municipalities will be able to exempt homeowners more quickly from further payments in the future. As a result, when coastal land is affected by coastal degradation, landowners should not continue to pay land debts, and therefore this bill also provides that it should be able to operate retroactively from 1 January 2015, so that the landowners who may have been affected this year are also taken into account. We helped to bring forward this amendment of the law when we were in government, which is why we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124227	No one has asked to speak, so I thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124234	This bill is another re-submission because we did not have time to finalise it before the elections, and that is why we are standing here again. I can already reveal that, as I said last time, we in the Danish People's Party can support this proposal, which is, of course, a short one, that there have been a number of cases, mostly in North Jutland, where there have been some storms that have caused all or part to fall into the sea. There, of course, one can rightly be tired of and perhaps a little angry and disappointed that one has to pay housing tax for the reason that is now no longer there. So that's what this bill is gonna do, so that you can of course be exempt from paying the ground for the reason you've now lost because of coastal degradation. It is only quite reasonable that this should be done with retroactive effect back to 1 January 2015. You could say that it was just missing. As at first reading, the last time we dealt with this bill, I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party would like to table an amendment. Because this bill shows that the municipal councils can and we think that it seems rather illogical that one should only do so. We think it is quite reasonable for these homeowners who have lost their property that they are sure that they too will not have to pay any debt. So we are going to put forward an amendment for committee reading and for second reading to make it necessary, but we can support the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124429	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There is one speaker who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124434	I very much agree with the remarks made by the rapporteur. But there is another rather strange situation for houseowners, which I think should also be resolved in this connection and which I would like to ask about the position of the Danish People's Party. Dagbladet Politiken described a case with a family who had a workshop that had a residence obligation vis-à-vis the City of Copenhagen, but they were subject to an entirely astronomical requirement in relation to the ground debt, despite the fact that there was a residence obligation 5 years in the future. The question is: can we not also correct this in this context and ensure that people are treated decently when there is a duty to return home? So I would like to ask the Danish People's Party what the Danish People's Party thinks about this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124518	I would like to express my sincere thanks for the question, because I have also read the article in Politiken, and I think it is a very good issue which one can very well take in on this bill. Because it seems quite unreasonable that when you have a liability to return home for a reason I think it was in the article DKK 75,000 that you could get for it then you are so grossly taxed on the ground of a value which is not really there for those who have this workshop. So we in the Danish People's Party are very much involved in finding a solution to this bill, and a possible amendment from the Conservative People's Party would be very open to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124600	There are no further brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124608	This bill is about land falling into the sea. In some places in Denmark we have seen that the sea takes such large bites of the coast that some houses fall into the water, and this is, of course, a tragic event for the landowners. But we were all wondering when it turned out that the landowners had to continue to pay the ground due, despite the fact that there was no house anymore. According to the legislation, the municipalities could not at all exempt the former homeowners from the tax. We will correct this with this bill, in which we will allow the municipalities to exempt homeowners from land liability in cases where the land and housing have fallen into the sea, in whole or in part, as a result of coastal degradation. I have noticed that the Danish People's Party would like to table an amendment to the effect that it should be a "must" and not a "can" clause, and we are also open to looking at this because, for us, it is primarily about the security of residents and owners in this situation. The draft law is, moreover, a re-submission of Bill No. L 189 from the spring, and on behalf of the Left, I say that we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124713	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023124732	After all, as several other rapporteurs have said, this draft law is about reasons that disappear due to the sea. And it is a question of allowing municipalities to exempt a property in whole or in part from land damage to the extent that it is affected by coastal degradation. This is, of course, a proposal which the Enhedslisten can support. We're fine with the reason. There is currently a little bit of a hetz against the ground, which is, of course, a treasure like many other taxes. And many other taxes are made on the principle that it is the strongest shoulders that are to carry the heaviest loads. Far down the road, it is also the case that the basic debt is actually a tax that complies with that principle, because it is the case that those who own real estate, all other things being equal, we can see that in statistics • are richer than those who do not have real property, for example. people who live for rent. So basically, the reason is a good treasure. However, it makes very good sense to make adjustments also because of the reason and the adjustments to the legislation on the ground blame, where it makes sense. And it goes without saying, of course, that you do not have to pay the ground for something that you no longer have because what you had has been washed in the sea. Of course, it's just common sense. Then there is a debate here today about whether it should be an opportunity or whether it should be something that the municipalities should just have. And there is my view and the view of the Enhedslisten that this also concerns municipal self-government. It is, of course, the municipalities that receive the income from the ground debt, and then it must also be the municipalities that decide whether it is something that the municipalities can exempt or not exempt citizens from. If the municipalities are imposed in this way that it is not something that the municipalities can decide, then in the general way that legislation works, we have to compensate the municipalities for the lost tax revenue. This is how we usually make legislation here in the Folketing. So I think the tax minister could comment on that in relation to the debate that has been raised here today. However, as I said, we support the draft law as it stands. Then there has been a debate in Politiken about an auto repair shop here in Copenhagen, and there is our position following this, too, that if you have bought a property where there is a liability for the property, which means that when you have to sell the property back • in this case to the City of Copenhagen • where you then in the present case described in Politiken get only 50,000 DKK. of course, it only makes sense to pay the ground for the part of the property that you actually own or have. It is also logical, and it is common sense in line with the common sense which lies in the draft law. So as the bill is here, we can certainly support it from the Enhedslisten side.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125038	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125042	It was just a comment, in relation to whether it should be a "can" or a "skal" scheme, i.e. whether the municipal council now has to I just have the appeal in relation to Enhedslisten's argument that we are laying down the framework for what it is that one should be able to claim a ground for, and here it is therefore a reason that no longer exists. I therefore think it is quite absurd to imagine that it should be part of municipal self-government that one should be able to claim a ground for a land that has fallen into the sea, which is no longer there. It is true that this is some kind of cash-in-the-box thinking, namely that if you say it should be a shell scheme, the municipalities must be compensated, but if you say it should be a can scheme, they will not be compensated. But for the citizens, it is all tax dollars, and I therefore think it would be a little absurd if we could imagine a situation in which the municipalities would then have to decide whether they could claim a ground for reasons which do not exist. Does it not also make an impression in relation to Enhedslisten's argument that, in relation to the citizens, it does not matter who sits and moves on the tax dollars, but that one could at least expect one to be exempt from paying the ground due for a land that is now in the sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125146	It can be said in this way that a municipality is also a democratic level in line with the Folketing, and the reason is something that concerns the municipalities. On the basis of that argument, it makes sense to say that what concerns the ground debt and the citizens' payment of the ground debt is something that the citizen must clarify with the municipality. If you choose to say that this is something that we in the Danish Parliament are making legislation about and I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party about this, is it not right that you should also look at how the state can compensate the municipalities for the lack of revenue that the municipalities want if you make a change to the bill, as the Danish People's Party is proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125230	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125232	The technical behind whether it is the state or the municipalities, I am actually less interested in. I'm actually interested in talking to these homeowners, because to them it doesn't matter who makes the decision. Because they just sit with the uncertainty still gone that the municipal council can relieve them, but it should not. In other words, they may in fact still be required to pay the ground for a reason which is now in the sea, and I do not think that is fair. I think it might as well be said that the municipalities should, of course, exempt them. In other words, when the site is no longer there, the municipality should not be given the opportunity to charge a ground debt for something that is not there. That seems to me to be very illogical, and that is why we will of course insist that we try it out here in the Folketing with an amendment. And then, of course, the parties can relate to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125315	I just think it's important in this discussion, too, now that we're talking about the municipalities' finances. We had a financial bill debate yesterday, where the Danish People's Party would not state clearly whether it would reject the government's re-priority contribution, where the government would take 2.4 billion. kr. from municipalities every year, which will result in massive welfare degradation and cuts in municipalities, because overall, until 2019, 7 billion will be removed. kr. from the municipalities. After all, the discussion on the ground of guilt is also about the revenue base of the municipalities. Then it is just that I am saying that if you start to say that it should be a shell scheme and not a 'can' scheme in relation to the legislation we are discussing today, then it is also relevant to discuss the revenue of the municipalities in this context. In any case, this is something that, for me and for the Enhedslisten, will have to be included in the discussion, in terms of whether it should be a "can' or "must' scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125408	No one else has asked to speak, so thank the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125425	Thank you. I should just like to say that we support the draft law, and I would also like to welcome the Radicals and say that they support the draft law. Compared to the ongoing debate, I agree more than a hundred percent with the wish of the Danish People's Party to make this a scheme. I cannot imagine in my wildest imagination a situation in which one could argue that one should tax something that has gone to sea. So the only option, if my imagination goes all the way up to heaven, would be if you have a city council that relies on Enhedslisten in a budget agreement, and where Enhedslisten so partout requires that this which does not exist, it is the only situation I can see for me if this can or should be relevant to discuss. Because if it can never be relevant with a can in the eyes of the Enhedslisten, then I really don't understand why it can be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125523	There is one brief comment we thought, and I hereby give the floor to Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125529	I think I will just have to make one clarification. This bill is about the possibility of using the possibility of exempting land from liability in the period from coastal degradation until there is a new property assessment. That is the period we are talking about, so it is a temporary period we are talking about. It's just to say that that's what we're talking about, so it's not quite general, but only until there's a new property valuation. Then I just wanted to know if Mr. Keating was gonna be okay. Villum Christensen may also want to comment on something: If Christiansborg's side is beginning to make rules about less revenue for the municipalities, is the Liberal Alliance also willing to enter into a discussion on how to compensate the municipality, because that is a relevant question in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125624	No, what worried me was that Enhedslisten took out this issue in view of the fact that the municipalities lacked money. Then the logical reasoning would then have to be that we would then like to make use of a system where we tax something that is not there, otherwise it would not be a issue at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125647	We shall now give the floor once again to Mr Seligman. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125651	My starting point for this is just to say that if a municipality itself makes the decision that the municipality should have less income, then the municipality itself is responsible for finding a solution to how else that money should be found. If it is the Folketing that makes that decision for the municipality, then the Folketing must look at how to cover that expenditure. I agree that it makes a great deal of sense to say that if there is a reason that disappears in the sea, then there is no need to pay any ground for it. That is also what I have said in my rapporteur's speech. I'm just saying, things have to go together. I did not quite understand the very hypothetical scenario presented by the rapporteur, but my approach to this is that, in a situation where the economy of the municipalities is very pressured, especially in a situation where the economy of the municipalities is very pressured, we also have to look at, just as we generally do how the income ratio of the municipalities is, because they are very pressured at the moment, among other things. As a result of the policy pursued by the Liberal Alliance in this Parliament, which will lead to massive cuts in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125758	I would remind you that when I stand up, it is because time has passed, and that means that you have to round off your speech. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125804	So I will be very brief and say: should we not let the calm down on the Folketing this Friday afternoon? I understand that it is a very theoretical discussion that we are out in that Enhedslisten will make the concern about the revenue of the municipalities an opportunity to say that the municipalities must tax something that has fallen into the water. So with that calmness in my stomach, I will now leave the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125832	The rapporteur can do the same because no more people have asked for brief comments to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023125840	Thank you. In the alternative, we think it is important that taxes are transparent and logical, and if I have to follow up on the debate we have just had, we are, as a starting point, very much in terms of municipal autonomy, but here we think it is important that citizens can be absolutely sure of what they have to pay taxes and taxes. It is, of course, illogical to have to pay taxes for a reason that cannot really be used because the sea has eaten it. Today, it can be said that this is a problem that has little scope, but we are convinced that it is a problem that will be of greater scope as soon as climate change causes us to have wilder weather and higher seawater levels also in Denmark. That is why, in the alternative, we also think it is important that we address this issue now, and that is why we support the legislative proposal. If we are now in the process of correcting illogical aspects of the root cause, I would say that, as has also been mentioned here today, an article has been referred to in the Politiken about an auto shop. It is, of course, about the fact that there is an obligation to return home within a short period of time. And, as the rules are today, some landowners are in danger of being caught up because they have to pay the ground due to the value of the land as a whole, even though the value of landowners is in fact much lower because of the obligation to return home. We think that is really illogical, and we want to help change that. That is why we think it would be appropriate if we could table an amendment which would allow for the possibility of reducing the ground blame for landowners who are liable for their land within a few years. So we will also support that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023130027	No one has asked for short remarks, so I thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023130043	It is, of course, totally unreasonable to charge a ground for something that does not exist. It's like collecting taxes or taxes from something that doesn't exist. In fact, I think that the bill is very well put together, as Mr. Rune Lund also mentioned, just by saying that the next property assessment will of course put it on hold. After all, there are some very dramatic things happening in the country on our coasts, where houses and land fall into the sea, and I would say that from the SF we do not think it should be discussed whether to pay a ground debt or not for a reason that does not exist. But it is quite clear that there are some municipalities in this country that are much more challenged by the fact that parts of the municipality simply fall into the sea. It is very, very serious and it has very, very major economic consequences. Then it does not make it any easier when the government even lends billions of municipalities with so-called re-priority contributions and the like, because there one should look more closely at how to compensate some of the municipalities that are located in parts of the country, where there are already other challenges with unemployment, etc., for we have some violent climate change and other things that simply give you houses and land that fall into the sea. I think we should discuss this, in other words how we can compensate the municipalities for it. But there is no doubt that you do not have to pay a ground for a reason that does not exist. Now that my colleagues have also mentioned this, I would also like to say that, in connection with the article in the Politiken article, we also support the fact that we are looking at the fact that, when there is a obligation to return home, we do not, of course, have to pay a ground debt for a value that cannot be prized or that is not real in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023130237	No one has asked for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023130247	It's a very good bill the government has made. After all, it seems like Stanley and Ollie and a whole hole in the head that you had to pay full ground for a plot for up to 2 years, even if the site is hit by coastal degradation. After all, it is bureaucracy and bureaucracy of the worst drawer in the world. I can't believe it's been allowed to pass without anyone intervening. It is therefore also a disgrace for us politicians that we have not intervened. But that is being corrected now and fortunately for it. We fully agree with the Danish People's Party when they suggest that it should be a "shell" clause and not a "can" clause. Here we must always remember to be on the side of the citizen, and that is why all those artificial divisions with municipal autonomy and everything else are a theoretical talk, because here we have to protect the citizen, which is why it must of course be a shell clause. In relation to the question which I put to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, I would like to announce here that we have tabled an amendment which we are now tabling here. There should just be a first reading of the matter first. As in its wording, we simply say: we ensure that property in which there is a liability to the home is assessed solely for what the land is worth with this obligation to return, and thus not subject to the property assessment of SKAT. I have heard a lot of positive statements from both the Danish People's Party, the Alternative and the SF and, hopefully, other parties, because here again we must be on the side of the citizen. It seems quite comical that you have a system in which you have a property, a house or a company where there is a liability for the home and where you have to pay back x number of crowns, and then you have to pay an astronomical sum in the ground due to the fact that there is a neighbouring ground which has been developed and which is worth a lot more money. But you have to return your property in five years, for example, to a certain amount of money, but you are assessed from a completely different sum. So, of course, you have to be judged on the basis of what you get for that property when the obligation to return home is withdrawn. We do not think there is a difference between whether it is activated or not, here there are some principles, and here we should be on the side of the citizen no matter what, and we hope and expect that the government will be, of course, but we will be tabling an amendment now and here as soon as the debate is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023130509	No one has asked for the floor for brief comments, so I thank the rapporteur and give the floor to the Minister of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023130521	Thank you and thank you for the positive reception of the proposal and for the debate that has taken place. In the view of the government, it is neither right nor reasonable that a landowner can today risk paying full ground liability for a land for up to 2 years, even if the land is affected by coastal degradation. It is therefore also positive that, as was the case when we dealt with the proposal last, before the elections, there seems to be broad support in the Folketing to deal with that issue. I can say that this is a problem that I personally have had a little bit in my mind, all the time that the reason why the proposal is being tabled I think it is some very specific summerhouses in No. Lyngby Strand a little outside Hjørring, and I hope then that the holiday home owners will be happy that this proposal will hopefully solve the actual problem that they have been forced to pay ground for reasons that actually do not exist anymore. The proposal will allow municipalities to exempt a property wholly or partly from land damage if the site is affected by coastal degradation, possibly on the basis of image material submitted by the citizen, i.e. an easy-to-manage scheme. Then I understand that there is a wish from the Danish People's Party and also from a number of other parties that it should be a "skal" clause, and if there is a majority in the Danish Parliament for it to be a "skal" clause and not a "skal" clause, I have no problem with it as a tax minister. We must, of course, have the amendment drafted in a way that is well thought out and makes sense, because we need to find a way to define it, that is: when is a cause affected by coastal degradation? If you change it from one place to the next, you will remove that assessment from the individual municipality and make it something that lies in the bill. So there may be some challenges in that, but we must look at that constructively. It is certainly a wish which I believe we in the government can support immediately, if otherwise there is support for it in the Folketing. But we must look at this when the Danish People's Party proposes the amendment. Then there is the discussion that has been in connection with DUT. It is true that regardless of whether it is "can" or "must," there may be a DUT-problem position, i.e. whether the municipalities should be compensated. But without knowing exactly what the practice is, there is probably some kind of de minimis limit to DUT and the municipalities, and this is a case of individual cases. This can be seen on page 3 of the draft law, where it stands under the financial consequences of coastal degradation and where the municipalities can grant an exemption with the new legal basis. The economic impact on the municipalities, where they grant exemption from the ground debt, is therefore deemed to be very limited. So let's see if there's actually a big bill, so the DUT problem comes in or if it's something you can sort out in a memorable way. I hope and believe in lately. The amendment of the law will take effect from 1 January 2015, i.e. with retroactive effect in favour of citizens. One must be very careful in relation to retroactivity when it is unfavorable to citizens, but when it is in favour of citizens, it is immediately easier. Therefore, if the landowners have already paid, there may be a refund of land due from 1 January of this year, i.e. from 1 January 2015. In relation to the issue that has also been raised, about the relevant car workshop in Copenhagen, I am of course listening to the debate that is going to take place and the proposals that will be brought in. As a starting point, I am on the side of the citizens as a tax minister. I think we need to be a little cautious and think about this, so the solution we are looking at is one that actually solves the specific problem and the issue that is going on in the press and does not have any inappropriate consequences for other parts of the property assessment system either. I am listening to the debate and when the amendment is tabled, the government will deal with it. However, I fully agree with the injustice described in that particular story in Politiken, and we must see if we can find a solution to this jointly. It just needs to be a lasting and sustainable solution. So, with those words, I would say that I look forward to the work of the committee and, of course, I am answering any questions that may come from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023130937	There are now a few brief comments from the Danish Parliament, and first of all it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023130944	Thank you. And first of all, I would like to thank the Minister, who says that if there is a majority for it in the Danish Parliament, you will be able to help change it from a "can" scheme to a "Scale" scheme. I would just like to ask whether the Minister's own party will then also participate in this and be part of that majority. Because there's a difference. There could be a majority bypassing the government, and then the Minister would like to take part in it. But of course I am also interested in and hope very much to hear what the position of the Left is, i.e. the Minister's party's position on it is whether you would also like to help find a solution that makes a •kan •-scheme a •skal •-scheme. As far as I have been able to listen to what the other parties have said in this debate, there is, of course, a majority if the minister's party is involved in making that change.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131025	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131026	But we will be prepared to do so immediately. In other words, we have set a line and wanted it to be a 'can' scheme; that was our line in submitting the report during the previous legislative procedure in the Folketing before the parliamentary elections. I believe that the only people who had that view, at least from the rapporteur's speeches that I have read, were the Danish People's Party. But now the desire is spreading, and I see no problem in that. We are happy to support such an amendment if we can just find a way to deal with the demarcation of it. So that is with that reservation, but we have to look at that in the committee procedure that is coming, and there of course the Ministry of Taxation is making itself available in terms of providing technical assistance in terms of the problem of demarcation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131111	Then we have another brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131115	After all, the Minister says that the economic consequences for the municipalities can be very limited and that this is what is being put into practice. But if you think they are very limited, you could probably compensate the municipalities for these consequences. I am not sure that people in these municipalities, for example. Where the Minister himself is from, it is in the petty department that large parts of the coastline go to sea. Especially if there should be a Hjørringborgester, other North Jutland or West Jutland mayors or other mayors who now have this problem, then I think they should write to the Minister and say: This is actually a challenge for our municipality. It's something we're not responsible for. It is climate change and other things that mean that we happen to be in a place where our coastline falls into the sea. So I think the minister should reconsider this proposal, especially if in the Ministry's calculations it is in the petty section. Economically speaking, it could be done to the municipalities that they were compensated for by some legislation that we are making in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131225	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131226	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is absolutely right that you could, but I just think it would be unwise to set up such a practice, because there are plenty of legislative proposals where it could have consequences for some individual municipalities. I think it is wise for there to be some trivial limit, and then you have to put it together under the authority of the municipalities, and when you negotiate the economy of the municipalities, you deal with that issue. When it comes to higher costs, we have this DUT principle, according to which the municipalities must be compensated. But I think you should be careful to move that small limit and touch the system. But it is absolutely right that you could do it if you wanted to. But I have to say that I am not going to put up with it immediately, because I think it will create a completely new precedent. Fortunately, we are talking about very few houses and very limited amounts. After all, this is a more general issue which the Danish Parliament, if the Danish Parliament's parties so wish, can deal with, in connection with the fact that in the spring you will have to create a new valuation system for property assessments, where a number of things come into play, including this separate issue. So my recommendation will be that we adopt this bill and ensure that the owners of houses and holiday homes who are currently suffering this kind of injustice can get the money back for the ground they have paid but should not have paid on 1 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131345	Then we have one last brief comment, and it is from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131349	As I have said, the Enhedslisten is in favour of the bill, but what may trigger the Enhedslisten and the SF, as you can hear, is that we have a situation in which the government has put forward a financial bill in which it will cut down enormously on the municipalities' finances and where we will see billions of savings and redundancies of thousands of employees. And in that situation, every penny will count. That is probably what means that when we then have a problem of land-based liability, which is something that concerns the tax revenue of the municipalities, there will be even fewer funds • even if it is in the smaller department, I would like to acknowledge that if you introduce a change, so that it becomes a shell scheme rather than a •can scheme. Then there is also the problem that the DUT principle is something where you give increased income to the municipalities or take some money from the municipalities across the country based on a key key. However, these are a few municipalities. Not all municipalities are affected by coastal degradation. This also means that the costs involved affect a few municipalities, and it really upsets the issue of compensation. So aren't there some arguments for the tax minister to make that one at least just look at whether one can devise some kind of solution, and that if one goes in and wants to make some kind of legislation, if that's what one chooses to do, then we could have a discussion on how to compensate the municipalities, which will have to reverse every coin if the government's financial bill is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131516	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131517	I actually believe that the DUT problem poses itself, whether it be "can" or "must." That is a relevant debate to raise, but my starting point would be that we should not touch it, because it is fortunately a question of such limited amounts. Now I am not going to manipulate the SF or the Enhedslisten in their political work, but if you are going to raise that discussion, if you want to give the municipalities more money and want to go in a different direction than the government has done with a re-priority contribution where most of the other things are being taken back to the municipalities next year I think there are other and bigger battles to take than this one. But the parties are free to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131602	One brief comment to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. There is one minute's speaking time, no, there is 30 seconds' speaking time!
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131606	I was just about to say that it's actually only 30 seconds. There was one minute earlier when I was a member of the Danish Parliament in the '00s. But couldn't the Minister explain why the bill was designed as a "can' scheme instead of a "must' scheme? What considerations have been given by the Minister and the Ministry in relation to the fact that the draft law as it stands is a "can" scheme and not a "Scale" scheme? I think it would be nice if the Minister could give some thought to this, because I think that it is thought about and probably also a lot before the bill was tabled in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131641	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131642	I certainly hope it has been thought about, but it has been thought about in the previous government, and it is actually a draft law that has moved from the now decommissioned Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs to the Ministry of Taxation. But I would urge Mr. Rune Lund to ask a written question, and then we can explain it in writing. I don't think I can explain it anymore today. But I can say that it is my impression that it has been thought about, and I think that wise thoughts have been thought about, but that is why the parties of the Danish Parliament can have other political views as to whether it should be a 'can' or a'must' clause. With those words, I would like to thank you for the debate and wish everyone an early weekend that would indicate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131715	Yes, that would indicate that, because no one else has asked for the floor, and I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation. The debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151023131732	There is therefore no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday 29 October 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda which appears on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
