ParlaMint-DK_20150205100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Food (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 134 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products. Bill No. L 135 (Proposal for a Law amending the Agricultural Support Act. In the case of the levy funds and the organic farming fund, as well as the formal requirements for complaints, etc.)). Minister for Health and Prevention (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 136 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health, Medicine and Tissues). Bill No. L 137 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Force in Psychology. Uffe Elbæk (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 69 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the elimination of transsexualism from disease lists). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Question No. F 20 (What will the government do to ensure that the Turkish border is opened to Kobane and the Kurdish territories of Syria so that the refugees can return and rebuild their destroyed homes?). Titles on the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has reported on the work of the Auditors and the Auditors on the preparation of the government's legislation. 5. The report can be found in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 19 January 2015, it was decided that the responsibility for tasks in the PM's area relating to the regulation of security protection of information was transferred from the PM to the Minister for Justice per year. 1 March 2015. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 19 January 2015 provides that the responsibility for tasks in the PM's field relating to the regulation of security protection of information, cf. Circular No 10338 of 17 December 2014 on the security protection of information of common interest to the countries of NATO or the EU, other classified information, as well as information of general security interest, shall be transferred from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Justice per year. 1 March 2015. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Hel Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt From the Prime Minister I have also received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 19 January 2015, it was decided that the responsibility for tasks in the PM's area concerning guidelines for the formulation of legislative proposals and administrative regulations, etc. and the procedure for drawing up legislative proposals and administrative regulations shall be transferred from the Prime Minister to the Minister for Justice. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 19 January 2015 provides that the responsibility for tasks in the PM's field concerning guidelines for the drafting of legislative proposals and administrative regulations, etc., has been determined by the Royal Resolution of 19 January 2015. and the procedure for drawing up legislative proposals and administrative regulations, including circular No. 159 of 16 September 1998 on comments on legislative proposals and other government proposals and on the procedure for drafting legislative proposals, presentations, administrative regulations, etc., with the exception of the area of responsibility for guidance no. 58 of 2 July 2012 on the handling by ministries of cases relating to Greenland and guidance no. 59 of 2 July 2012 on the handling by ministries of cases relating to the Faroe Islands, shall be transferred from the Prime Minister to the Minister for Justice per year. 19 January 2015. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100227	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100255	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? This does not seem to be the case; we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100315	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 56 (S, RV, EL, SF, and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 52 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100349	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100406	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 13 (EL and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100438	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100455	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 107 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100525	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100543	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100612	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak on the platform? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100633	Then we shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal and we shall now be able to vote on it. I shall conclude the vote. The proposal has been adopted unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100700	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100721	We shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the draft law and we shall now be able to vote on it. I shall conclude the vote. The bill was adopted unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100749	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100811	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the proposal. There's just one technical problem. Let's try it again. That's it. That's it. That's it. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 12 (DF), against 94 (S, V, RV, EL, SF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), no one voted to abstain. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205100922	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205101050	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 February 2015. First of all, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the questioners. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205101117	Thank you. Greenland is heading for an economic disaster, and it is difficult to see even the slightest light ahead that will create a breeding ground for optimism. However, this does not prevent the media and politicians from sometimes creating the impression that a self-earned Greenlandic economy based on raw materials lies just around the corner and that the recovery will come when you just get it and the big scale project established. And there is always some eloquent foreign lobbyist who comes by, both in Nuuk and in Copenhagen, and tempts billions, and each time the project is extremely urgent. Last spring we adopted here in the Danish Parliament on demands from the national government large-scale law, and I must promise that this will be done quickly. It was so fast that the law in my eyes was beaten through, for now it should be, right here and now. I do not want to blame the government for this, because I have no doubt that Karen Hækkerup, Minister for Justice at the time, was so pressured into this unworthy lightning process by the Home Rule Government of Greenland. One remark from the parliamentary debate that we had, I particularly remember. I had asked the rapporteur from Siumut, Mrs Doris Jakobsen, whether she did not agree with me that the adoption of this large-scale law could well have waited a few months for the autumn session so that we could have proper time for the legislative work, and she replied, quote: No, because Greenland does not have time to wait. But here we were talking about weeks, and here one can have Professor Rosing Minik's information in mind that at best 25 years will pass 25 years! But Greenland did not have time to wait a few weeks. But so hysterical was the mood as recently as last spring among many Greenlandic politicians and, of course, particularly led by a high-level chairman of the local government. I should be pleased if it has changed and it is my hope that today's debate on the question to the Prime Minister will also be pragmatic and forward-looking, for the benefit of Greenland and the Kingdom Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205101348	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Prime Minister to part of the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205101356	We have discussed Greenland's economy several times here in the Danish Parliament, and I am sure that today we will also have a good and constructive debate and a debate in the spirit expressed in the adoption of last year's question debate on the Kingdom Community, and I quote: 'A good dialogue is the prerequisite for an equal and respectful cooperation between the parties to the Kingdom Community and will at the same time ensure that the interests of the Kingdom Community as a whole are safeguarded. ▪ Yes, that is the case, and the framework for dialogue and cooperation between Denmark and Greenland is, of course, the Self-Government Act. This also applies to difficult issues about Greenland's economy. The Kerne of the Self-Government Act is self-determination, and the Kingdom Community is therefore today a community in which virtually all important decisions on Greenlandic society are made in Greenland. That's what I'm talking about. Greenland itself is responsible for economic policy, for implementing necessary reforms and for securing new revenue. It is Greenland that is responsible for making the decisions that will ensure welfare in the future. It fully respects the government, but of course we are also closely following Greenland's economic development, because a healthy Greenlandic economy is not only important for the Greenlandic population but also important for an equal kingdom community. And the fact that the country develops economically and becomes more self-sustaining is not only a strong political desire in Greenland. It is also a wish in Denmark. Therefore, the government is constantly discussing the economic situation with the Home Rule Government of Greenland. A month ago, I had a meeting with President Kim Kielsen. We talked about the political and economic priorities of the new government, and of course we also discussed the economic challenges in Greenland. The President and I agree that the government and the national government must cooperate closely, we must have an open and constructive dialogue, and in this spirit I have mentioned to the President of the Government that the government has taken note of the conclusions of the Greenland Economic Council. The Council points out that no significant reforms have been carried out in Greenland since the introduction of the self-government regime in 2009. I also mentioned to the President-in-Office that the government shares the Council's view that Greenland should embark on reforms that are necessary to ensure long-term prosperity. It is a very important task to balance public revenue and expenditure in Greenland and especially in the coming years, when there are more older and fewer people to earn money. It is a job that the new government must now tackle. We have a modern and equal community where cooperation is more important than ever. It is cooperation within the framework we have agreed with each other and which is enshrined in the Self-Government Act. I have therefore said to the President-in-Office of the Council that we would very much like to cooperate. We have also had to carry out reforms in Denmark and change our society, and if Greenland can use the experience we have, then we are ready with administrative knowledge and what else may be needed in relation to some of the reforms and proposals that the national government is planning to implement. The Minister for Finance will clarify that in a moment. A modern kingdom community is based on good and equal cooperation. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister of Finance for the status of the economic situation in Greenland and for the Government's further response to Question No. F 3. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205101825	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it is the Minister of Finance who will continue to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205101835	Thank you very much. As the Prime Minister rightly mentioned in his speech, the cooperation between Denmark and Greenland is based on the self-government law and on its prerequisites for the distribution of competences. It is the case that Greenland itself is responsible for economic policy, and there should of course be no doubt about that. Having said that, it is of course also important that we in the Folketing can have a respectful debate on the situation and on the economic challenges for one party in the Kingdom Community, in this case for Greenland. And it is the case that Greenland faces major challenges in terms of growth, employment and fiscal sustainability. There has been a decrease in economic activity in Greenland since 2012, unemployment is around 10%, and development is due to a decline in investment, private consumption and exports. For some years there have been great hopes for the raw material area in Greenland, but there has been a slowdown in exploration investment, which has weakened the business cycle. And the prospects in the slightly longer term are no longer so favourable. The Government and the National Government have just published a joint report on industrial development in Greenland, and the report deals in particular with raw materials and tourism areas. The report shows that there is estimated international potential for extraction of raw materials in Greenland, and the adoption of the large scale law and the lifting of zero tolerance to uranium supports that assessment. However, declining raw material prices and limited international experience of operating in Greenland make it difficult to attract funding for mining projects. The joint report, which has been published, contains a number of recommendations for strengthened Danish-Greenland cooperation, which can contribute to the development of the economy in Greenland on commercial terms for the benefit of both Greenlandic and Danish companies. This concerns, among other things: on initiatives to help increase financing opportunities for mining projects, including the creation of an Arctic loan framework in the Nordic Investment Bank, and access to capital from the European Investment Bank. It is also recommended in the report that the Export Credit Fund helps to identify healthy mining projects in Greenland, where a guarantee can then be provided that makes the financing of purchases from Danish subcontractors to the mining industry in Greenland more accessible. In the field of tourism, too, there is potential for enhanced Danish-Greenland cooperation, and this is recommended among other things. in the report, increasing cooperation between Visit Greenland and VisitDenmark with a focus on product development and joint marketing. When it comes to Greenland's exports, it has been stagnating for several years, and this is a development that reflects fisheries activity in particular. In the important shrimp fisheries, quotas have been reduced by over 40%. Since 2011, and biological advice recommends further reduction of quotas. On the other hand, rising world market prices have meant that there is still a good economy in shrimp fishing since 2010. Fishing for mackerel has contributed to strengthening economic activity, but it has not been able to prevent a decline in the overall economy in 2014. Provided that mackerel fishing is sustainable and that the stock is sufficiently robust, it could provide an important growth contribution to Greenland in the coming years. The weak development of the Greenland labour market poses a serious problem not only due to a modest growth potential in the economy but also to major structural challenges. The level of education in Greenland is low internationally • only about half of a youth year receives a qualifying education. Therefore, there is a significant import of highly trained labour into Greenland. At the same time, there are also a number of foreign unskilled people in Greenland who do not require special qualifications. So the structural challenges in the labour market therefore concern both the skills of the workforce, but also, of course, aspects related to mobility and incentives. The cyclical development has contributed to a slight increase in income and relative poverty in Greenland in recent years, and there is already a slightly more unequal distribution of income and a slightly higher relative poverty in Greenland than in Denmark and the other Nordic countries. In addition, in recent years there has been an increase in net migration from Greenland; the population has fallen by over 450 people or 0.8%. Since 2012, and this is a development that has followed cyclical developments. With regard to the Land Treasury's operating and construction budget, there has been a surplus since 2010, but the cyclical developments and the additional appropriations provided for the national government's advancing renovation and construction tasks have contributed to a deficit in the national treasury of up to 275 million in 2014. kr., equivalent to 2%. of GDP. And that is why the national government is facing a need for consolidation in the short term. More importantly, the number of elderly people in Greenland is going to increase significantly over the coming many years, and this will lead to further pressure on public finances. The latest calculations from the Greenland Economic Council show that budget improvements of up to 900 million are needed. kr. or 61⁄2%. of GDP each year in the years up to 2040 to ensure a sustainable economy. In Danish terms, this will amount to about 90 billion. kr. a year, and it goes without saying that this is a very big challenge. It is also the Council's opinion that new revenue needs to be found and reforms that lower public expenditure need to be implemented in order to balance the budget in the future. It should be stressed here that new revenue, for example. raw materials, not in themselves, as the situation currently stands, can solve Greenland's economic challenges. Regardless of whether new revenue is created, reforms are also needed if a balance is to be struck. It is stated in the coalition basis of the new Home Rule Government that stable social conditions must be established in Greenland by carrying out necessary reforms and that expenditure and revenue in the budget should be kept in balance as far as possible. It also follows from the coalition basis that the national government will set up a limited liability company which will be responsible for large capital investments in, among other things: airports. At the same time, the national government will set up a development fund to invest in large-scale projects in Greenland. The National Government will shortly present its draft Finance Act for 2015 and this will provide a first concrete insight into the national government's work to meet the challenges of Greenland's economy. Later this year, the national government will come up with an overall plan for growth and sustainability, and the chairman of the Greenland Economic Council, Professor Torben M. Andersen, has said, and I quote, that it will be absolutely crucial what the plan will look like if development is to be reversed. As I said earlier, Greenland has its own responsibility for economic policy and for implementing necessary reforms and securing new revenue, so as to ensure well-being in the future too. However, as the Prime Minister also stressed, the government is, of course, prepared to cooperate with Greenland and offer administrative assistance in relation to some of the reforms and initiatives that the national government is planning to implement. It can, for example, be done. be in the area of modernising the public sector or spending management, where we in Denmark have experiences that we would very much like to share with Greenland. At the beginning of January, I had the opportunity to have an initial discussion with my new Greenlandic colleague, Home Ruler Andrea Uldum, on these issues, and the national government is now considering their possible wishes and needs in relation to the offer that has been made. I hope that the national government will accept the invitation and that we can establish good and constructive cooperation between Denmark and Greenland in the administrative area. I look forward to a good debate here today on Greenland's economy. It is an important subject which is of great importance to many people in Greenland and in the Kingdom Community. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205102711	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. We shall now proceed to the debate, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205102724	I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance for their replies. I said from the outset that Greenland is heading for a disaster if we do not take a firm stance as soon as possible in the Landsting on sanitising the economy, and notice that it is going to start without any distinction as to what it might be possible to earn from raw materials in 30 to 40 years' time. If, then, four Decennia turn out to be money in the box from raw materials, that is just good, but it should have nothing to do with the reforms. So what is it that Greenland has? Yes, it is, as always, the fishing industry which, together with the block subsidy from Denmark, is at the heart of the economy. As far as the development of raw materials is concerned, nothing is going on. There are no active mines in the country anymore, and no one seems to be on the way, as I said. So Greenland has some extremely serious economic problems to which the national government has an obligation to seek solutions. The 2009 Self-Government Act, which was adopted by the Danish Parliament, apart from the Danish People's Party, has greatly contributed to making Greenland's economic problems far greater than they would have been if the law did not exist. By that law, the block subsidy from Denmark was, as it were, locked down, and it would therefore be contrary to the law if you wanted the block subsidy to be increased. It was one hundred percent on Greenland's initiative that the block grants, price- and wage-regulated, were locked at the 3.2 billion. kr., today I think 3.6 billion. kr. kr. to 3.6 billion. kr. In the past, the size of the block subsidy was negotiated with the Minister of Finance and it could change from year to year, as it were, as needed. But now it is on Greenland's demands locked in the laws of both countries, and this means that Greenland will be in the vicinity of 900 million each year for the next 15-20 years, as the Minister of Finance said. kr. in the treasury. This would be equivalent to the fact that every year Denmark should be short of 90 billion. kr. And well, that would be the worst thing to do without any prospect of improving the situation. Greenland is, as you know, one hundred percent self-governing in the economic field, but I am therefore obliged to say, despite this fact, that there are things that Denmark should not accept. Denmark will not be able to accept Greenland going bankrupt. Denmark will not be able to accept if what we consider to be a natural Nordic welfare situation is dramatically changed in Greenland. Denmark will not be able to accept that those who are already described as poor today in Greenland become destitute people. And Denmark will not be able to accept that there are children in Greenland who go hungry to bed because in the years to come public welfare is being cut. When we do not want to accept it, especially when it comes to Greenland, the reason is of course that everyone who lives in Greenland is Danish citizens and so must and must have the same basic social framework conditions as the rest of the Danish citizens. It is not only a wish I make here. I believe that it should be a requirement for the Home Rule Government of Greenland to demand that the national government, in order to avoid bankruptcy and subsequently incalculable social poverty, now initiate a process in which the necessary reforms are carried out. And if the national government does not respond to the economic problems, it must address the government so that the sound, close and good cooperation that the Kingdom community had previously been can be restored. We in the Danish People's Party are warm supporters of the Kingdom Community, and we do not want Greenland ever to leave the community, as has often been mentioned. We do not want the community to be dismantled, but rather strengthened. We do not want less cooperation, but more cooperation on all points. And if Greenland wishes to do so, we would like to support a pragmatic revision of the economic aspect of the Self-Government Act, so that our two countries, as a single front, will be able to move forward and make investments in business development, investment in logistics, investment in new education systems. Such a cooperative kingdom community will be trusted by the outside world, even when it comes to investing in Greenland. As the situation now stands, there is unfortunately little confidence among foreign investors in Greenland as an exclusive distributor. It seems to me that quite serious, tough demands must now be made on the national government to implement pragmatically a long-term economic policy, so as to live up to its main commitment: to offer the Greenlandic people a future, thereby giving people the confidence that there really is a future for Greenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103230	Perhaps there is also a proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103238	I'm sorry! Thank you, President. I have been asked on behalf of the Left, the Socialists, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and Siumut to present the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Greenland faces major economic challenges with an ageing population, high unemployment and weak economic growth. The Danish Parliament notes that in the 2014 report, Greenland's Economic Council points out a need to ensure a balance between revenue and expenditure in the Greenlandic economy in the short and long term, and that the Council recommends structural reforms that address the underlying challenges in Greenland's economy. The Danish Parliament recognises and stresses that Greenland's Self-Government is itself responsible for economic policy. The Folketing urges the Government to keep itself informed of the economic situation in Greenland and, within the framework of and with respect for the Act of Self-Government, including the financial framework in force, to continue to cooperate and provide administrative assistance if the Naalaksuisut so wishes. • V 22)
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103339	That's what Mr. Søren Espersen read out proposals for adoption on behalf of a number of parties are, of course, part of the further negotiations. Then there are at least two brief comments. First of all, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103353	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Søren Espersen for the presentation and to take the initiative on the question. I wondered a little what the purpose of this question really is, and I got a little bit smarter when I heard the rapporteur's speech. Because I think it is clear that the rapporteur is not confident that the Greenlanders themselves will be able to find out which solutions are good for them in order to solve the major challenges that we all agree that the Greenlanders are facing. This was clearly stated in the rapporteur's statement that strict demands must be made on Greenland's policy in this area. So I just ask: how does the rapporteur think we should make tough demands on Greenland when they have actually taken over responsibility for economic policy? What are some of the more specific requirements that the rapporteur believes should be made to the Greenlandic Government? I suppose you should have an idea of that if you want to make demands and what are the consequences if Greenland does not comply with the demands of the Danish People's Party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103520	I mentioned some of the things that, in my view, will not be acceptable. As the rapporteur will certainly also know, we get information from Greenland. For example: There has been an article in a newspaper about children in Nuuk, which in some cases goes to beg food when the institutions close in the afternoon because they do not get enough to eat. We hear about neglected children in several places, and there is a general problem of poverty. We cannot accept that, and then I don't care how it is organised. It is Danish citizens who are not treated in the same sensible ways as they do in a Nordic welfare system, and it cannot be accepted. But I also stress in my speech that it is Greenland's local government that is responsible, and that is where I say to Greenland's local government: see to it that something is done. The Minister of Finance explained that there had been no reforms since the adoption of the Self-Government Act in 2009. The responsibility lies there and those things need to be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103630	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103631	Thank you. I asked very specifically about a turn that the rapporteur used: strict demands must be made on Greenland. So I ask: what are the specific requirements that need to be made? How will the rapporteur manage to ensure that the government or we, like the Danish Parliament, make these demands when Greenland has assumed responsibility for economic policy? And what, in the rapporteur's view, should be the consequences if the Greenlanders do not do what the rapporteur thinks they should do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103709	Well, I'm not in those ratings at all. What is at stake is that Greenland's economic problems must now be solved and that responsibility lies with the Home Government of Greenland, which we all agree on here. This must happen because things are going on that are not acceptable according to Nordic welfare conditions. We cannot have that, and I cannot understand why the rapporteur does not agree with me. There are things that are different in Greenland. Poverty is much greater and there are huge structural problems, particularly in the social field. It needs to be resolved, and I hope it will be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103745	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103748	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that there is at least a great deal of common ground in relation to the fact that we care about the conditions in Greenland. But I would like to ask about some of the same things that Mr. Finn Sørensen asked, because I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Søren Espersen, using some words which I do not think have been used with understanding or with respect for the law of self-government or with understanding of the proposal for adoption which Mr. Søren Espersen read out and many parties agree that we recognise and emphasise that Greenland's autonomy is responsible for economic policy. When the rapporteur then says that strict demands must be made on the national government and, at the same time, says that the Danish People's Party will not care about how it is organised, then I just do not really understand what the Danish People's Party will be like and work, while respecting the law of self-government is being expressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103847	The law of self-government is a reality. It was adopted, not with our support, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen knows well, but it is a reality and therefore we recognise it as being legislation in both Denmark and Greenland. But I have to say that respect for the law of self-government ends for me at the moment when Greenland has other social standards than the rest of the Nordic countries. I do not think we can accept that. There's gotta be something going on. I have spent all my speech saying: it is the problem of the national government that has to solve it, but it is also Denmark's problem because we are in a Kingdom community with Greenland, and because we provide a great deal of financial support for Greenland and have committed ourselves to it. So it is our responsibility, but it is the national government in Greenland that has to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103939	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205103940	I fully agree that the challenge is great if there is social inequality between the three parties in the Kingdom community. But I just don't think it's very constructive to use the rhetoric you use in the Danish People's Party. I think that the close dialogue between Greenland and Denmark is much more crucial, and that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance raised this in their statements, also with what was said, that we wanted to help from Denmark. So, we have primary competences in Danish ministries, which can come into play and improve the situation in Greenland, then I think that this is a completely different situation than saying that you don't care how things are organized and that you want to make tough demands. I do not think that the self-government law allows for this, and certainly not in a constructive debate like this one, I think it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104034	I think it is excellent that there is cooperation, and I also know that Greenland has repeatedly requested and received assistance in the social field; that is all excellent. I'm just saying what I heard, too, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen says that there are limits to how much poverty we will accept in Greenland, because Greenland and Denmark have been linked for as many years as we have; because we have a crucial influence on Greenland's economic earnings through the block grant; and because we cooperate in all kinds of fields, legal, police etc. Of course, Denmark must engage in this and say: there is something we will not accept. It is a special responsibility we have, which we do not have for Somalia or Kenya or Ceylon, or what I know. It is a special responsibility. I don't think Ceylon's the name anymore, and I see the PM's laughing. I can't always keep up with those new names. It's also Beijing, I understand. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104131	Yeah, I guess we'll have to have a debate on another day... what it's all called. Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104139	Thank you for raising the debate. There are some things I just need to clarify, because I do not think they come out quite clearly. In my ears, Søren Espersen stands for a very paternal approach. That is what I am responding to, and that is also why the SF did not agree to your proposals for adoption. In your proposal for adoption, you take up the Greenland Economic Council, which recommends structural reforms that solve the underlying challenges. Will Søren Espersen just define how to briefly tell Greenland how to solve the underlying challenges here and now in the Danish parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104226	No, of course I can't. How could I? I have no particular insight into all the functions of the Greenland economic system. It has, however, the Greenland Economic Council and they provide a number of instructions which I think have been interesting. Some of them are also quoted by the Minister for Finance. There is a paternal approach being said. Well, we can't stop talking soon. Once you are a colonial master, and you have not forgotten it, once you are paternal and so on. Oh, come on! These are two adult nations, two adult countries against each other, and we say things as they are. Then let's not forget about that one, a little bit, what's it called, sensitive talk. We'll say it the way it is. I hope Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen will do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104313	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104315	When I mention it, it is in fact because Søren Espersen's speech was very sensitive, among other things. on what is, after all, a real challenge: poverty in Greenland and the children at risk. We fully agree that something must be done about this, for which we have a shared responsibility. At the same time, however, there is almost a demand that the economic challenges should now be solved in Greenland. And then I'm having a hard time hearing about sir. Søren Espersen is prepared that we too, from the Danish side, may provide additional financial resources so that we can help the children in Greenland who live in great poverty • UNICEF and Save the Child etc. Got a lot of work going on up there. One would, of course, be able to go in and be offensive in relation to it. One of the things that I think is positive and that Denmark could learn from is that you actually have a children's Ombudsman in Greenland. And I just want to know if Søren Espersen also thinks that was one of the lessons we could learn from Greenland in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104415	But Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, it is year after year that we are debating Greenland and talking about the need for dialogue now, and then we must try to help where we can. We've been doing this for a long time. But there have been no economic reforms. There has been no one since the adoption of the self-government, as the Minister for Finance also told us. So we can stand here again next year and say: we must now have a dialogue. I mean, we have to get to work, and there's only one place the arrow points to. It's Greenland's Self-Government. It is Greenland's local government that has the full responsibility, and I think they will be better able to assess it than I will be able to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104459	Sir. Nick Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104503	I'm gonna agree with you that we're facing some challenges at home. I'm also glad that you're somehow pointing that out. You are also talking about something that I think we all agree on, namely that it would be good for us to strengthen the community we have. You also mention some measures that can be worked on. But I often miss the soft values of this debate when we talk about strengthening the community we have. Do you have any ideas about what values can strengthen the relationship we have with each other? I often think we forget that, and instead we talk a lot about the technical options. Of course, we have the community in the economic sphere, but if we are to cooperate and cooperate strongly, it is extremely important to pay attention to the values we must have together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104608	May I say in all silence that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we do not use the Duform in the Folketing. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104617	I'm very pleased, sir. Nick Nielsen says, because I think a lot can be done, and I am thinking of ourselves, that is, from the Danish side. So we have an educational situation in Denmark in primary and secondary schools, where students know much more about the European Union than they know about the Kingdom Community, and I think that is outrageous. In other words, it does not have a permanent curriculum in the education systems that exist. It is far away from the ordinary school classes that I get in here at Christiansborg when I talk about Greenland and the Faroe Islands. So that's where we can start. Greenland knows a lot about what is going on in Denmark, because it is normal to read Danish newspapers and magazines on a large scale and to follow on radio and television etc., so there is much more knowledge there than there is at home. You could change that and do a lot of things about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104705	Sir. Nick Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104707	I have no further comments to make here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104714	Then it's mr. Johan Lund Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104718	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I think this is a rather strange debate. For the reality is that in 1979 we were given home government, and then we went further in a negotiation process with Denmark and passed into self-government in 2009, when Greenland was given more and more autonomy in a number of areas. However, since 1979, Greenland has always had to draw up its own financial laws, i.e. its own economic policy. That is why it is such a rather strange debate that we in the Assembly have to discuss economic policy in Greenland. We therefore have a parliament in Greenland, Inatsisartut, and a government in Greenland, the Naala Suisut, which is responsible for pursuing economic policy. It is just a small remark that I have to start with. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party was also a member of the Self-Government Commission, the Danish-Greenland Autonomy Commission, and it is true that an agreement was reached between Danish politicians and Greenlandic politicians that the block grant should be frozen at 2009 level. So that was a result of negotiations. Søren Espersen said that it happened according to Greenland's wishes, but I would remind you that this was a result of negotiations and I would like the rapporteur to confirm that it was a result of negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205104906	In other words, since the self-governing commission's report was a negotiating result, it is true in theory, but it was a Greenlandic demand. No one had thought of making it as a demand on the Danish side at all. It was presented by Mr. Kleist Kleist and Mr. Lars-Emil-Emil Johansen as a crucial factor that the block subsidy should be frozen and secured. It was even said by one of the gentlemen that you would never be able to get a yes to the law of self-government if you were not sure that you would get that block grant. That's the way it is. With regard to the second, I believe that we in the Kingdom Community should be able to discuss everything, including Greenland's economy. I also believe that sometimes Greenlandic politicians criticise Denmark and the government at home. I just rarely hear it going the other way. I very rarely hear the Danish Government criticize the national government, and that really upsets me a little, because it should be so in a community of kingdoms that we can talk about things and criticise each other. I hope so too, sir. Johan Lund Olsen agrees with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105003	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen. That's it? Well then, thank you to the rapporteur for the questioners and the Danish People's Party. Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105023	After a turbulent political period in Greenlandic politics, elections to the national government were held in the autumn. And the result of the election was, as we know, the formation of a coalition government under the leadership of Siumuts Kim Kielsen. I would like to congratulate you on your election, and I and the Left would like to express their satisfaction at the Kingdom community and cooperation in mutual respect. The election campaign was uplifting because it was emphasised from all sides that from now on there must be broad cooperation in Greenlandic politics. The unods must be cleaned up with friend services and the abuse of taxpayers' money, and above all the great challenges that Greenland faces must be addressed. The recognition that it is the Greenlandic politicians and the Greenlandic community themselves who must tackle the challenges and find solutions is very important. For it is and remains a Greenlandic task to carry out reforms that can make Greenlandic society self-sustaining. Greenland's economic council writes in its latest report: "The importance of initiating a reform process cannot be exaggerated. Without reforms, Greenland will never be... self-supporting, and the country will continue to be stuck in economic dependence on others and with a value creation that per capita is clearly below the level of neighbouring countries in the North and North America. • The Council notes that, following the introduction of Greenlandic self-government, no significant reforms have been undertaken to support a possible self-sustaining economy. In recent years we have seen what is happening to countries that do not have order in the economy. They become dependent on other countries and lenders. Nor will there be any greater autonomy if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. must be dependent on multinational companies. I guess you just have to say Greece, then we all know what this is all about. First of all, there is pressure on public finances. Revenue and expenditure are not really linked. The gap between revenue and expenditure will increase over the next 20 years. And especially demography plays a major role here: there will be more older people and fewer young people in the workforce. Many Greenlandic young people do not really get a share in training and must therefore anticipate difficulties in finding jobs in the labour market: a labour market which, like everyone else, becomes more technical and knowledge-intensive. Greenland also experiences that the young people who take an education migrate and find employment abroad. There are major social problems and there are increasing demands on public health services. Medicine and equipment are getting better and better, but also more expensive and expensive. The housing sector is a problem. There is a very high maintenance deficit, and interest subsidies distort housing consumption and are based on the need for everyone to have cheap housing, but some people, as you know, have to pay. Fishing is so clearly Greenland's most important profession. However, I would like to stress that it is also important for Greenland to develop other industries, and nearby in this context are mining and tourism which can make a contribution. The coalition agreement stresses the need for reform. It is important that the new government is able to measure the solution of the task of ensuring Greenlandic society a self-sustaining economy. In an interview in Dagbladet Information, Finance Minister Anda Uldum says: "You cannot go shopping without money, and that is as true as it has been said. It is worrying, however, that he says that he cannot promise that an economic plan will be ready this year. However, I hope that it does, because the sooner we get to grips with the challenges, the better things will work out. Calculations from Greenland's Economic Council show that public expenditure will increase up to 2040, while revenue will be broadly the same as the share of GDP. The economy is therefore not sustainable. Budget improvements of up to 1 billion are needed. kr. or 71⁄2%. of GDP each year up to 2040. Converted 71⁄2%. of GDP to the situation in Denmark, this is probably equivalent to approx. 135 billion kr. The reform of daily allowances, zero growth from 2011 to 2013 and the reforms of early retirement, cash benefits and early retirement implemented in Denmark are probably equivalent to almost half of the Greenlandic challenge, and this says something about the enormous scale of the task. We can agree here in the Folketing that the understanding of reforms does not come naturally. This is something that needs to be worked on politically. The need for change must be explained, and often it takes time. And given that Greenland's problems are much, much bigger than the problems we have, one cannot get started early enough to understand the need for change. Because it doesn't come by itself. And I must honestly say, after reading Greenlandic newspapers, that there is a great lack of concrete initiatives. A good advice to Greenlandic politicians is therefore to flesh out the challenges for Greenlandic society and, above all, to start presenting solutions. The sooner they are presented, the more gentle they become. The task is the Greenland Government, and the solution of the task is based on all political parties in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105639	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105642	Thank you. I should just like to ask the rapporteur whether he is not confident that the Greenlandic people, the Greenlandic Landsting, the Greenlandic Government will be able to meet the challenges facing the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105701	I was very encouraged when I followed the election campaign in Greenland because it was expressed by all parties that Greenland is facing major problems, that Greenland's parties and politicians are ready to tackle the solution of these things, and that is an incredibly pleasing development. What I would like to hope for is that it will then be followed up with concrete initiatives. But it has to be said that it was gratifying that Greenland's problems are now considered so important that all the party-tactical tricks are put aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105738	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105739	Thank you for that answer. I would also like to sign for that part of the rapporteur's speech, which was, of course, much more nuanced than the one we heard from those who raised the question here. In fact, I share the rapporteur's view, let us just call it optimism on the basis of the Greenlandic elections. I might have liked to have seen another result, but I agree with what the rapporteur says that it seems that realism is spreading. But why then this, what should we say, very violent urge to interfere in the debate like Parliament and tell the Greenlanders what to do and what not to do, since there are, in fact, some positive signs that we should find out, even though it is extremely difficult?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105825	My message in this debate, and the reason why I thought it was a good idea to raise this question, is that the understanding of reforms does not come naturally. That is why we know from experience, both the present government and the previous government, that it is not the case that when changes are proposed, the euphoria is spreading over the country. Efforts must be made to understand the need for reform, and we need to know what the alternative is if we do not make reforms. I therefore believe that this question is an expression of due diligence on our part, on the part of the Danish Parliament, and an expression of respect, because we are interested in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105912	Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205105916	Thank you very much for your speech, too. Claus Hjort Frederiksen. I also hear it slightly more balanced and at least as a great desire that it should go significantly better for the Greenlandic economy. Claus Hjort Frederiksen mentions that the Greenlandic economy must be self-supporting. I would like to ask for a little prediction as to how this will happen and when it will happen. Regarding the self-supporting: Is it with or without block grants from Denmark? The second is: How does Claus Hjort Frederiksen view a good, equal, trusting collaboration between Denmark and Greenland under the auspices of the Kingdom Community to meet some of these very serious challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110012	I do, among other things. know that we are interested in what is going on in our two countries, that we are engaged in the debate, that we are keeping track of developments. After all, it is necessary for us to have cooperation that we can discuss matters. In my paper, I see what the challenge is. So does Greenland's Economic Council, and there it is just my concern that we can see that the challenge is 71⁄2%. of GDP. In order for us to understand here in Denmark what kind of task it is, it would be like having to go out and find savings of 135 billion. kr. That's quite a task, and I'm worried about it. One thing is that we recognise the need to reform, another is that if we are to have the support of the people for the reforms, then we must start to put it into practice at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110115	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110117	This is precisely what I am asking for, because I do not think that the fish factory in Paamiut necessarily gets a more stable production of our commitment and concern down here in Denmark. This is done by means of concrete possibilities for a more secure operation so if Claus Hjort Frederiksen would just become a little more concrete with regard to the Left's initiative in terms of strengthening the Greenlandic self-sustaining economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110147	Now I think that is a very, very strange speech that Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen makes. Basically, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen does not think that we should be dealing with this debate at all, because we should not interfere in Greenlandic relations, and then Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen calls for concrete proposals on how we will do it in Greenland. We are not making any concrete proposals. We can only see that there is a huge problem for Greenland, and what worries me most is that if you have a dream of becoming self-employed, then it also requires that your economy rests in itself, because whether you are dependent on Danish block subsidies or Chinese mining companies, or what do I know, it is not real freedom and independence if your economy is not healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110240	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110248	Thank you very much. See, a factual debate and a discussion of the situation of the Kingdom community here in the Assembly Hall, whether in a single part of the Kingdom community or overall, are necessary and very favorable, and we have that today in connection with a question debate. We also have it annually in the form of a debate on the situation of the whole Kingdom community. This is very favourable and we, as Social Democrats, very welcome it. As the Prime Minister and Finance Minister have mentioned, we want an equal and respectful cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. This is how the tone should be, and such actions should be a cooperation based on the self-government law and the division of powers that is now in place, according to the self-government law. In other words, these are the important decisions that are being taken in Greenland, many of which are being taken, and these are, for example, the economic policy we are discussing here today. As explained by both the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister, Greenland is, as you know, facing considerable challenges in relation to the economic situation. There are challenges in relation to budget deficits, an ageing population, low growth and unemployment, and these are not just minor points that have been mentioned here, but they are the basis of a strong state, a strong nation and the possibility of welfare. The self-government is responsible for economic policy, including for implementing the necessary reforms and securing new revenue; that is clear to everyone. Although the responsibility for economic policy rests with self-government, we can, as we are doing here, and this has also been expressed by both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, have a respectful debate on the situation in Greenland, and we do. On the Danish side, of course, we are also very interested in a healthy economy in Greenland. And why is that? Yes, because it is good for everyone who lives in Greenland, and it is good for the Kingdom community as a whole. It is therefore also with great satisfaction that I have noted that the newly elected government in Greenland will present a sustainability and growth plan before the end of this year. It is a plan that will include improved framework conditions for business and measures aimed at combating unemployment • major challenges in Greenland. The coalition parties have agreed in the coalition agreement to introduce reforms to ensure better living conditions and, above all, to launch a dynamic development of the economy to ensure the creation of precisely new jobs and thus to develop more jobs for the working part of the Greenlandic population and to ensure that expenditure and income in the budget is kept in balance, as far as possible. That is what is also expressed by the parties during the coalition period. The Greenlandic and Danish governments set up a working group 11⁄2 years ago or just under 2 years ago. In 2013 at least it was a working group whose training it was to come up with proposals on how to promote business development in Greenland on commercial terms, and this is a debate we have had here in the Parliament hall several times. It has been a useful debate which has also resulted in something concrete, so concrete that the working group has just presented its report, as the finance minister also said, with 12 recommendations for business development, where there is a very special focus on raw materials and tourism as areas with the greatest potential for growth and employment in Greenland. For example, the report recommends a focus on clarifying potential financing opportunities for mining projects in Greenland on commercial terms, which changing Greenlandic governments have expressed are important, and increasing cooperation on marketing between Greenland and Denmark in a number of areas, such as tourism. I also find it very positive, as I have said several times in recent times, that the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister have indicated that the government here in Denmark will offer administrative assistance in relation to the desire and need for reforms and initiatives, and what the national government may be planning or, as provided for in the coalition agreement, will have to plan, that is to say to provide the assistance and assistance with top competences if Greenland's self-government so wishes. With this speech by the rapporteur, I would like to say that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has a great deal of attention and respect for the political work that is going on in Greenland, but also the work that needs to be done, which must be maintained in cooperation between Greenland and Denmark politically, a cooperation which we would like to see strengthened, for example in the professional contexts and the financial contexts. Greenland is a large country, but with a small population, with some vulnerabilities that have been drawn up very clearly in connection with the economic analyses and reports that lie for Greenland's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110823	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110827	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is as if the speeches are becoming more and more nuanced as we come forward in the series of speeches. I am pleased about that, and I think it will end very well when the Greenlanders themselves have the floor at the end of the day. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Since we agree that there is a basis for some optimism which should not, of course, belittle the major problems of Greenland's political life and development, why is it so important for the rapporteur and the other parties behind the proposal for adoption which has been put forward here that we should highlight some very specific recommendations from the Economic Council, namely the so-called structural reforms here? I would also like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur means by the structural reforms. What are some magical solutions that will emerge from the introduction of these structural reforms?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205110932	Well, sir. Finn Sørensen, I stand here as a Social Democrat and I have the fundamental view that being a politician and helping to drive a country forward is to make the right decisions at the right time. I just think that what the Economic Council for Greenland says is that there is a need for decisions to be taken in Greenland. We're not expressing anything else in this text except that what we're saying is what's being recommended. The Economic Council is a council, just as we also have an economic council in Denmark. We are even listening to advice from outside, namely from the OECD and others, when we are trying to make political decisions here in Denmark. But apparently that Enhedslisten resigns from listening to experts in one area must be on the account of Enhedslisten. We do not do that in the Socialists. We are happy to take advice. And there is nothing more in this proposal for adoption than simply summing up the fact that there is actually an economic council and that they have actually made some recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111034	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111037	Thank you. Everyone knows that there is an economic council for Greenland. I guess you don't have to write that in a proposal for adoption here in the Folketing. So what we want to find out is what is really the purpose of it. What is the purpose of highlighting a very specific part of the report, namely that relating to structural reforms? Why is it so important when, at the same time, we recognise that it is Greenland's responsibility to define economic policy and to find out what concrete steps they will take to address their economic challenges? So I would just ask for an answer as to why it is so important and what does the rapporteur understand about structural reforms, which are apparently such a magical solution that needs to be repeated? Why is this so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111124	Actually, I don't understand Mr. Knox at all. Finn Sørensen's criticism of it here, because the proposal for adoption and it is also included in the proposal for adoption, which Enhedslisten stands for, states precisely that the actions in relation to economic and political decisions are a Greenlandic matter. That is the clarity of the proposal for adoption. I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen is falling over something that, from a socialist point of view, is completely meaningless. In fact, the proposal for adoption we have put forward makes it clear that what we are listening to the Economic Council for Greenland says is that there is a need for political determination that provides a momentum in some areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111204	Then a brief comment has been made by Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111214	I would like to say again that I am pleased that we have the debate today, because, as I said, it is quite important. Will Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen mention a few examples of reforms which, from a socialist point of view, are equal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111234	I have to say to Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen that it is a strange question to ask a Socialist Greenland rapporteur to give him an answer as to what, in the eyes of Danish Social Democrats, would be right to do in Greenland when we do not have the competence to make those decisions. It's a purely Greenlandic matter. Now let the talented and responsible Greenlandic politicians consult with their advisers and make decisions • e.g. to listen to some experts and key competences in Danish ministries. It will be made available. But don't ask a Social Democratic Greenland rapporteur what might be right for Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111311	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111314	Well, I do because sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen started by saying that he is today standing on the platform as a Social Democrat. That's just why I thought it was interesting to hear what the Socialists think. The special situation is that both Greenland and Denmark are part of the Kingdom Community, and of course we have a great interest in recognising the Kingdom Community. So the challenge is the balance between when we in Denmark stand and will adopt a proposal for the adoption of structural changes in Greenland, as we understand, however, from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen cannot go into what should be. Couldn't I just have a comment about where Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen sees the value of the kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111409	There were a lot of questions in this. However, what I conclude is that Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen has not heard that the second sentence of my rapporteur's speech was that we, as the Prime Minister and Finance Minister, want an equal and respectful cooperation and division of powers between Greenland and Denmark, based on the self-government law. And the law of autonomy says exactly which parts are decided in this Parliament and which are matters of concern and what is decided in Greenland because they are repatriated areas. The things that Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen is asking me are haunted areas that need to be decided in Greenland. Our proposal for adoption states that the economy is a Greenlandic issue. So there is nothing to do with my making proposals on what reforms are to be introduced in Greenland. It would be disrespectful and completely opposed to the framework and thinking of the self-government law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111505	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111514	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the authors for giving us the opportunity to discuss Greenland and the Kingdom Community again. A short time ago, we were discussing a question on Thulebasen, another very important topic for both Greenland and Denmark, and today it is the economic situation in general. However, I noted that IA's rapporteur, Johan Lund Olsen, finds it a little strange that we are debating one of the parties in the Kingdom Community at all, just as it would probably also be strange if the Greenland Parliament were debating Danish matters. But in any case, as the Prime Minister did, I would like to express the hope that we will have a constructive and objective debate. There is no doubt that the situation is serious and that it requires action by Greenland. We have been able to read in the Economic Council report, which has been mentioned many times here, on Greenland's economy for 2014. I have talked to businessmen, Greenland politicians and residents and others with a thorough knowledge of Greenland, and they have all outlined the situation in much the same way: an increase in the number of elderly people in the population, young people who are going away, for example. In order to train in Denmark and some of them never come back • unemployment, lack of jobs and lack of skills. The situation will be unsustainable within a short period of time, unless action is taken now. In the Radical Left, we attach great importance to the Commonwealth and I would like to emphasise that we have full respect for self-government as defined in the Self-Government Act. Nevertheless, we dare to say loudly, still with great respect for self-government, that we believe that the path of reform that we have followed ourselves, but which has not always been easy, is the way forward, because it is of course important that there is a balance between expenditure and revenue. The second part is then to seek to increase revenue through the development of both new and existing occupations. The extension of the fishing area has been mentioned as an opportunity. In the recently published joint report on business development and cooperation for the government and the national government, you can read about 12 recommendations for the development of business opportunities. It mentions tourism and mining, as has already been mentioned, and then there are a number of proposals for increased cooperation between the authorities. We recognise that there are a number of related problems, as mentioned earlier, which relate to the economic situation, but the aim is for the Greenlandic people to receive training, they can use the creation of jobs so that people have the opportunity to support themselves and that in the long term an economic space is created so that welfare can be maintained and the Greenlandic economy can eventually become self-earning. We fully recognise that the competence to make all these difficult choices rests solely on the shoulders of the Naalaksuisut and Inatsisartut. Since we in the Radical Left are in no way indifferent to what is happening in Greenland, we follow developments closely, and we of course support the government's continued cooperation with Greenland and offers for administrative assistance, advice and guidance when and if the Naalaksususut wants it. It is about the Greenlandic people and their future! The draft proposal for adoption, as it now stands, can also be fully supported by the Radical Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111843	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205111852	Once again, thank you for the opportunity for us to discuss this important matter here today in the Kingdom Community. As has been said many times, Greenland is in a very serious situation. The financial perspectives that have also been mentioned from all quarters are very gloomy, and this requires action. It is necessary that we stand together and, above all, work together under the auspices of the Kingdom Community and that there should be a way for Greenland to get out of the extremely difficult situation. The poor economic situation has a lot of negative consequences. That is also what has been mentioned from all sides. These are negative consequences at the level of society, but they also have very great human consequences. There is high unemployment, there is generally a high level of poverty and a general fall in the welfare of the individual. Of course, we in the Kingdom community cannot turn a blind eye to this. What we can also see is that there is a lack of confidence from investors to start major projects. In order for Greenland to emerge from the crisis, it must, among other things: This is also what is recommended by the Economic Council between revenue and expenditure, the creation of training places and jobs and the sustainable growth of society. It is absolutely crucial that they can develop their profession on the Greenland side, and then you also have to look at the opportunities that exist to create new income and to create opportunities for increased growth. Greenland has a lot of resources, and they must of course be exploited, but it requires investment, it requires knowledge, and it also requires hard work. Minik Rosing has in cooperation with e.g. The University of Copenhagen prepared a report called "For the benefit of Greenland." A collaboration at research level was established between Greenland and Denmark, where one would simply proceed from a research angle and make analyses that could point towards the opportunities that could be available. The work that was presented exactly one year ago also identified opportunities for cooperation on the basis of which cooperation could be established. I would like to know if the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister would try to tell us what has happened with the follow-up to that work. What we need to ensure through equal cooperation and trusting cooperation is that Denmark and Greenland do not move in different directions. There is a common interest in localising the problems, finding solutions to the problems that Greenland is facing now. And it is absolutely right that, under the autonomy law, it is a binding, respectful and equal cooperation that we have, and it is also with that tone that we are involved in trying to find solutions. What we have to do is to ensure that Greenland can have a stable economy. And, yes, if there is a need for reforms, we must, of course, work on reforms. I would also like to look forward to the presentation by Greenland of what reforms will be undertaken. But I would also very much like to point out that Greenland's Self-Government is responsible for economic policy, and it must be respected that Greenland's Self-Government should seek to solve the problems in Greenland. The role of the Danish Parliament is to cooperate respectfully and cooperate on the basis of the principle of equality and to provide support and make knowledge available and to provide the assistance the Home Rule Government of Greenland considers necessary. I have looked forward to the debate and discussion here today and, on behalf of Enhedslisten, IA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and the Socialist People's Party, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Greenland faces major economic challenges with an ageing population, high unemployment and weak economic growth. Among other things, it can be done. on the basis of the 2014 Greenland Economic Council report, there is a need to ensure a balance between revenue and expenditure in the Greenland economy in the short and long term. The Danish Parliament recognises and stresses that Greenland's Self-Government is itself responsible for economic policy. The Folketing urges the Government to continue to cooperate and provide administrative assistance within the framework of and with respect for the Act of Self-Government, if the Naalaksuisut so wishes. • V 23).
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112421	Of course, the proposal for adoption made by Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen on behalf of several parties is also included in the further negotiations. Two brief comments have been made, first from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112442	Thank you. Now Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen mentions the value of trusting cooperation. And I know that the people with whom I have the best and most trusting cooperation are the ones I criticise most. It is also of them that I get the most criticism and there is a lot, I should say hello and say. Does Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen not think that trusting cooperation implies that the Danish Government must criticise the national government if one feels reason for it and that the criticism should come the other way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112516	Well, that's exactly the point of equality. That's also why I really want to hear some comments on the follow-up to the report from Minik Rosing, for the benefit of Greenland. Because there are some very clear and very good options sketched out, and I would really just like to hear: How does that look? But I think there is a big difference between whether you invite to criticism or whether you stand, and now I would like to mention it again, paternally in Denmark and say: Here we know what it would be good for Greenland to do. In the ideal world, Greenland and Denmark from the Landsting and the government should sit together and then go back to us, among other things. and say: this is what we would like to work together on. But criticism, yes, heart's pleasure, for how should we become wiser if we never criticized each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112612	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112615	Well, the situation is such that there are piles of criticism from Greenland's Home Rule Government and the Landsting against the Danish government, incessantly. Every week there's criticism. But I have never actually seen the criticism go the other way. I have never seen a Danish government or a united Parliament criticize something that is going on in Greenland, and I cannot understand it. I don't get it. I don't get it. I think that and I also said that to Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen before it is a ridiculous concept. So, what is crucial is that there are some situations right now and here that can lead to poverty in Greenland. This must be resolved, and the national government must solve it, and if you cannot criticise the national government for not having done enough, you are not an adult. The Danish economy and the Greenlandic economy are so entangled, whether we like it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112711	I take Søren Espersen's criticism of my choice of words as an expression of our good and trusting cooperation. But I will now still use the term paternally, because that is how I hear it is. We stand here and say: Now you are going to hear how this is going to be. We fully agree that the poverty, the poverty in which too many Greenlandic children grow up, we have a great responsibility in Denmark too. Just about that part, I do not think we alone can say: Solve it, Greenland. At the same time, what the Minister of Finance has also explained is really great economic challenges in Greenland, and they could neither solve that yesterday alone nor solve it alone today or tomorrow. That is why we need to work together with confidence. And the Greenlandic children need the help they need. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112801	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112804	Mrs Vilhelmsen, as rapporteur, says that we should not turn a blind eye to social and economic development in Greenland. Does SF think that here in the Folketing we are turning a blind eye to what is going on in Greenland? I have said in my rapporteur's speech and in my replies that we have a debate on statements every year in which we discuss matters within the Kingdom Community. I myself am a Greenland rapporteur, and I would like to say that we have a Greenland committee which is extremely active both with the Danish members and the two chosen Greenland members who are constantly up to speed in relation to what is happening. So does Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen of the SF think that we are turning a blind eye in the Danish debate on Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112852	No, I just don't. That is also why I said that we should not do that. It is not because I am saying that we have done so on the contrary. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen also knows very well my commitment both here and in the committee and under the other auspices, where there is an opportunity to speak the Greenlandic case. But what I just want is for us to do this in trusting, equal cooperation. It seems to me to be quite sensible to read the recommendations of the Economic Council on the part of Greenland, but I also believe that there are other options which might point more forward, with some options in them, including those relating to the environment. the report by Minik Rosing, and that is actually what I am asking about: how is the follow-up to the recommendations that were made? It was, of course, an identification both of some problems, but also of some possible places where you could put in and come up with some solutions. That is what I am asking, so thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify that. There is certainly no turning a blind eye. I'm just saying we shouldn't do that either. We need to tackle where there is also an opportunity for Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112952	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205112954	Then I'll have to ask you one more time. Do we have an equal and respectful cooperation between the Folketing and politicians and the people of Greenland? Do we have a respect on the part of the Danish Parliament in relation to the Self-Government Act, yes or no, seen with the SF's eyes? Then Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen asks whether anything is going to happen in relation to the follow-up to Mr. Minik Rosing's report and other things. I know, of course, that the Minister for Finance has stood here and explained that a report has just been presented in relation to promoting commercial business cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. That's some of it, sir. Minik Rosing had made it clear that we were missing, and there have been 12 recommendations right now. So do we sleep in class or something happens here with SF's eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113040	Now it is the case that it is not possible to ask questions to the Prime Minister or Finance Minister in the first round. We can then do that afterwards, and I shall look forward to doing so. Then that is exactly what is possible, namely that we can address the options that exist and we can help with some solutions. What I believe can be lame in terms of trusting cooperation is when it says in the proposal for adoption that the Council recommends structural reforms which address the underlying challenges of Greenland's economy and when it is not possible here by asking questions to those who have tabled the proposal for adoption about what it means to get an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113125	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113127	I would like to ask the SF's rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that it is right if Greenlandic politicians do not begin to address the fundamental economic challenges that Greenland has said in respect for the next five years either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113149	It goes without saying that it will burden Greenland even more and that it will run completely beyond an edge. So, from a position point of view, Greenland simply cannot continue along the path they are going now, but it is Greenland that is going to solve the economic problems and address the best ways of making reforms. But it is not us in Denmark who should stand and say to Greenland: Do it now. I think we should ask: what are you going to do? How are you gonna do that? Is there a need for assistance, is there a need for help? What's needed? I don't know what we can stand here and say. If Greenland says that they need financial help because there was no mine adventure, then we have a whole new situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113223	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113226	Then let me ask you another way. Will the SF's rapporteur try to influence his political colleagues in Greenland to do something, or is Annette Vilhelmsen's attitude that we just sit and watch, and then things have to go as they go?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113248	No, it just isn't. We have a good, trusting and also critical cooperation with Greenlandic politicians, but this should be done very much from an equal perspective, and there is also in everyday life. I would expect Claus Hjort Frederiksen to have that with the connections that Claus Hjort Frederiksen and the Left have in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113307	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113330	Thank you. Like sir. Johan Lund Olsen, I'd like to express a little wonder. It's kind of hard to figure out what the purpose of this question debate is. It is becoming increasingly clear that for some of those who have, as it were, been involved in the debate, it is a great deal about apparently making demands and making concrete recommendations about what the Greenlanders should do or not do. Because we all know that Greenland's situation is very difficult. The Greenlanders themselves recognise this, and I do not actually hear anyone in Greenland trying to minimize the problems and challenges they have, nor does the Greenland Government. It is possible that, as politicians, we wonder about some of the decisions they reach up there or a lack of decisions. Personally, I also think it is perfectly acceptable that we in the Danish and Greenlandic media should express this view. It is part of the cooperation that you also have the right to express what you think about what the others are doing. It is part of the Kingdom community and a very important part. That is what we call dialogue in a fine word. But it is now a task for the Greenlandic Landsting, Inatsisartut, to take the discussion and find the solutions that Greenland believes are the right ones. As a Parliament and now I stress the words as Parliament we should in fact only relate to Greenland's economic situation to the extent that we are asked and they may ask for our help and cooperation. It must be a natural consequence of the respect that Greenland has taken over responsibility for economic policy. As far as cooperation is concerned, it is already under way. Several have referred to the report that has just arrived. I am not going to comment on the specific recommendations, so I have not studied them in depth. I would just like to very much welcome the fact that it has come and that it is, of course, an expression of the fact that cooperation is going better than some might like to give the appearance of. So we can only welcome that. However, it is not our job as Parliament to make demands or make specific recommendations to Greenland on how to solve their economic problems. It is particularly striking that it is obviously very important for a number of parties here to highlight quite specific recommendations, namely on structural reforms, in the report that the Greenland Economic Council has made. And it is hard to see it as anything other than an attempt to interfere, albeit indirectly, in Greenland's decision-making process. This is particularly worrying when you look at what some of the recommendations have been chosen to highlight. These are the structural reforms. If you look at the report, what can you read about it? • Reforms are needed to increase the benefits of working and to strengthen the availability requirements in order to receive labour market benefits. It was a quote from the report. On page 15, where the Council considers that the main cause of employment problems in Greenland is a number of structural conditions and apparently not that jobs are lacking for the many unemployed. This leads the Council to the conclusion that the mechanisms for making available and sanctioning the unemployed must be tightened. On public investment, the report states that this may be fine, but that it does not necessarily have to be done where the employment problems are greatest. We've heard it before. After all, these are recommendations based on the same principles of economic policy that are being applied at home and now I have to be a little brief, and it is becoming a little populist: it is a delusion that more jobs should come out of taking some money from the unemployed and that we should be reluctant to invest in public investment and certainly not invest where there is high unemployment. That policy doesn't work at home. The consequence is more inequality, more poverty. Greenland has plenty of that already. So why is it so important that in a proposal for adoption in the Folketing we have this kind of registration? At least the Enhedslisten will not be a part of that. If the Greenland Government chooses to go that way, it is its decision, but it is not something that we, the Parliament, should interfere in. Then it is also a little striking that if you are finally in the process, you will not be paying attention to recommendations that the Economic Council should have made, namely how to solve the problem of the very rapidly increasing inequality that exists in Greenland. Perhaps that is the case, for example. to make a total redistribution of the tax burden, so that the rich and the wealthy, of which there is also part in Greenland, came to contribute something more to the community. I've brought that along just to show that what you're proposing here is based on sand. I just want to say quite briefly that I believe that we must gather together to wish Greenland all sorts of good luck in solving the challenges that exist. We must show confidence that they can solve them, and then we must be prepared to cooperate when they ask for it, and of course also discuss concrete things that can help them in the situation in which they are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113853	There are three brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113857	So our task here in Denmark is simply to follow developments; that is how I understand it. And then Mr. Finn Sørensen, that our task as Parliament is also to support the solutions found in Greenland are the right ones. It's a direct quote from that, sir. Finn Sørensen said. But what if the solutions found right in Greenland over the next few years lead to further poverty and cuts in relation to the weakest, is it still something that we should just support Greenland in? Is that really Enhedslisten's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205113930	I do not think I have used the wording to support those solutions, because it is Greenland's decision which solutions they find. We are allowed to have our opinion on those solutions. We just have to remember to respect the fact that they are the ones who meet them. I have also made it clear in other contexts on which points I disagreed with the decisions taken in Inatsisartut. This was something we were asked to interfere in, namely the large scale law and its implications for the Danish law on foreigners. Then you have to get involved. But what I think, sir... Søren Espersen has difficulty understanding that when we talk about economic policy in Greenland, it is a Greenlandic matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114015	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114018	Well, I didn't order anything but to say it right from the start, so we're in complete agreement on that. That's not the point. The point is: if there are no solutions from the Home Rule Government of Greenland, which has not come since 2009, when the autonomy was introduced, and if we are to stand here again in 5 years and discover that there is even more poverty and distress in Greenland, is it still something that Enhedslisten is completely indifferent to? When is the point where you say: that is enough! Something's gotta happen! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! The Enhedslisten tends to be good enough to place all sorts of orders on how different countries around, in Africa and Asia etc., to solve their problems, but the Greenlanders do not have to!
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114103	I think that is quite a contradictory argument, sir. Søren Espersen has. Yes, it is because Søren Espersen says that yes, but we respect, it is the Greenlanders who decide, after which Søren Espersen makes a long speech about everything that Greenland has to do, and believes that we from the Danish Parliament must make demands on Greenland's economic policy. It is completely contrary to the law of self-government and to the agreements we have made with the Greenlanders, and with what we agree on and there I will actually include all parties in the Danish Parliament other than the Danish People's Party, namely that it is the dialogue that is the way forward, that we are allowed to make some proposals in the discussions that the Prime Minister has with the Greenland Government, that we are allowed as politicians to express what we think, but that it is not our job as Parliament to interfere in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114151	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114155	Is there one proposal in the Greenland political and economic debate, as Mr. Finn Sørensen can support?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114209	In fact, I think that there are some of the recommendations in this Council report, which are very sensible from the point of view of my knowledge of Greenlandic conditions. I am just saying that this is not something we should be dealing with in concrete terms in the Danish Parliament, in respect of the fact that it is the Greenlanders who are in charge of those matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114229	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114232	I'm just wondering, like Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen of the very sharp distinction that Enhedslisten evidently makes when it comes to the right to express itself and interfere and discuss the affairs of all other countries in this world. There is only one country where we cannot afford to make recommendations. Well, I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen's party is very active in the debate on Greece. I wonder if the same commitment would be appropriate when we discuss part of our own kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114316	I don't think sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen can find examples of how we have interfered and proposed which policy we, as a Parliament, should interfere with and what policy the Greek Government should pursue at any time. And that's what we're talking about here. That is exactly where the delicate distinction is, and where it is so incredibly important that we, as Parliament, keep our tongues straight in our mouths. Because in Greenland I think we're all familiar with that, too, there are currents that think that those Danes are just stupid, that they interfere in everything, and that they want to decide everything. After all, it has emerged from the national election campaign up there, and it is extremely important that we keep our tongues straight in our mouths and not feed on what should we say, the currents that want to put Danes to hate, because they want to determine everything in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114411	Thank you. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114414	Thank you. Excuse me, sir. Finn Sørensen, I think it is simply a muddle of what we are gathered about here today, where we would like to express on the part of the Danish Parliament that we are actually aware of what is going on in Greenland and that we will actually send a signal from Denmark that if there is anything we can help with, we will listen if they come and ask us. But Mr. Finn Sørensen wants this to be a yes, excuse me, I'm doing an interpretation... more of a Greenlandic domestic political debate than a debate that belongs here. A motion for a resolution is being tabled, on the part of the Enhedslisten, to mention the Economic Council and their report, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Finn Sørensen from the platform can say that there are some of the recommendations, sir. Finn Sørensen can support and see the sense of it, but Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal for adoption that the vast majority of parties here in the Danish Parliament are united on, where we just make it clear that the Economic Council also makes some recommendations, among other things. in some structural areas, and that otherwise it is Greenland that decides everything about the economy itself. Yeah, excuse me, I think it's a muddle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114531	Yes, I have no doubt that Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen thinks, but it is then because Flemming Møller Mortensen will not listen where it is that the dividing lines go. I say explicitly, and that is also the essential difference between the two proposals for adoption, that in the proposal for adoption on which Enhedslisten is co-sponsored with the representative of the SF and the IA, we do not go in and pick out a certain part of the Economic Council's report and say that these are the recommendations we would very much like the Greenlanders to follow. Because if you do, you start interfering in the Greenlandic domestic political debate. It is precisely Flemming Møller Mortensen and the other parties who are putting forward the proposal for adoption which is beginning to invite interference in the Greenland domestic political debate. We have tried to explain that to Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen through several e-mail exchanges over the last few days he wouldn't listen to that. Otherwise, we could have had a joint proposal for adoption if we had wanted to take it out. It would not be very important to highlight that part of the report because it seems to be very important. If you do not want to and do not want to meet around it, we will be forced to put forward our own proposal for adoption, where we all agree on the things on which we agree. This is a good idea when it comes to making proposals for adoption on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114646	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114650	Yes, and that is exactly the democracy we salute and are so happy about, but it is also wonderful to have the opportunity to express how paradoxical this is in my interpretation. For Mr. Finn Sørensen says that the proposal for adoption we have tabled is a question of indicating where and how Danish demands should be made, as Mr. Finn Sørensen said in his rapporteur's speech. I would just like to say that, at least with social democratic thinking and reading skills, I cannot interpret at all into what is the text of the adoption here. It is said that it is noted that the Greenland Economic Council has made such and such recommendations and that they have also made some recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114734	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen is obviously not allowed to listen, because it is a very specific recommendation that you take note of and that you highlight. All sorts of other recommendations could have been highlighted in that report if at last one wanted to. I am glad that Flemming Møller Mortensen says that that is not the intention of it, but, Lord, if it were not, it would not have been as difficult to pick out the words that we were some other parties who wanted to have tampered with so that we could have a common proposal for adoption. In other words, there must be some meaning to it, and as long as I cannot get another explanation, I must interpret what I can get out of it, namely that one really wants to interfere, albeit in a nice and polite and indirect way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114811	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205114818	Thank you. It is in every way in a sad background that we are discussing the situation in Greenland today. It would be wrong to play down the problems because, as many have already said, the truth is that it is going the wrong way on virtually all parameters. Whether we are talking about raw materials, fishing or tourism, the arrow points down. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that, five years after the Act of Self-Government was adopted, we have seen very little willingness to reform, particularly in the public sector. The reform needs we are discussing here in Southern Denmark, if you can call it that, are in contrast to the reform needs of Greenland, which is of course characterised by a company structure which is largely characterised by full or partial public involvement. A great many businesses, whose development is crucial to getting out of the soup, have been grazed into public subsidies and political special interests, which make it quite difficult to achieve profitability as we know it in the rest of Europe and in the Western economy as such. In the long term, it is also imperative to ensure training for young people and that motivation and incentives are present in the workforce if the economy is to become self-supporting at any time. I am convinced that a relatively tough reform process is required very soon and that long-term solutions must be put in place, because in our view many of the problems have been structural and perhaps also culturally borne. I believe and hope that the recognition of the necessary steps is clear from most politicians and that they will say that we in Denmark will always show respect for self-government and very much want to reach out with help and support for the implementation of the necessary reforms, just as the Prime Minister has said, as long as funding is maintained at the current level. If there are no drastic changes in the approach to the problems and the necessary decision-making power, I fear that at some point we will see a northern version of Greece with all the human and personal tragedies that come with it. This is a situation we must never face because the political system has somehow not known its visiting time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205115109	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Stig Møller as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205115119	When Greenland, under the government of the VK in 2009, became self-government, there were voices at home who believed that the self-government agreement was too lucrative for Greenland. In the following years Greenland's self-government itself expressed that Greenland could soon stand on its own feet with a big bag of money and wave goodbye to Denmark, which could then be left with a long nose. Optimism was great. There was plenty of oil as climate change melted the ice; there were uranium and iron and rare earths in the underground. Yes, Greenland had the prospect of becoming a pure Bonanza with an adventure like that that hit California in the middle of the 19th century, where everyone went there to get a bag full of gold. Greenland would soon move from self-government to real sovereignty, break up the kingdom community and say goodbye to the block subsidy, which would be to count for pennies you could spare. The discussion we had in those years about who is in charge of who and to whom Greenland can sell uranium would become superfluous, for then Greenland would decide for itself the whole thing sovereignly. In those years I congratulated Greenland on its perspectives, but warned against breaking up the Kingdom community. On the contrary, from a conservative point of view, we must endeavour to continue the Kingdom community that we have been handed down by history for many, more or less random reasons, because we cannot recreate a kingdom community if we have first broken it down. Our call was therefore to listen to the Greenlanders and the Faroes to hear from them what might be wrong with the Kingdom community, then to renew it, within the framework of the constitution, of course. In order to meet the Greenlandic and Faroese justified wishes, we made together the Itelleq Agreement and the Famjin Agreement, which ensured Greenland and the Faroe Islands participation in the part of our foreign policy that concerned them. Then the United States, Greenland and Denmark made the Igaliku agreement, which allowed the upgrade of Thulebasen and thus continued American presence in Thule, which contributes more than 240 million. kr. annually to the Greenland Treasury, amounting to an amount of 240 billion. kr. in the Danish budgets. Whether the government has now weakened this with its agreement with the United States from December 2013, we currently have a discussion on which we can unfortunately note that the Prime Minister will not contribute to participating. I find that a big mistake, since Greenland and the Faroe Islands are directly under her control, and because she has actually changed the Foreign Minister a few times since 2013 - everyone has to have time to become Foreign Minister in that government - why the current Foreign Minister has had nothing to do with that decision of December 2013. And it actually seriously threatens Greenland's economy. Now that we are talking about the difficulties in the Greenland economy, it is also worth talking about where we have helped to reduce it. This matter has not been discussed yet, but it is not the subject of today's debate but needs to be debated elsewhere. For today's debate is Greenland's economy, which is in a bad state. The adventure wasn't just around the corner anyway, oil prices have fallen sharply on the world market, which pushes the prospect of a Greenlandic adventure far into the future, as it is expensive to search for oil and even more expensive to get it up in Greenland. At the same time, the prices of iron ore, which was the second fairy tale, have also fallen on the world market, which in turn weakens interest in digging iron. In addition, there are difficulties for fishing, which is of course one of the most important things in Greenland, and unfortunately the sale of sealskins is affected by the various prohibitions which are unfair, which we are therefore also opposed to, and which I know the changing Danish governments have tried to ease and prevent the result from. But it is also a weakening. We can, of course, work down here to improve conditions. Then there is tourism with ships along the Greenland coast, which has a future for itself, but it does not seem to be around the corner either, because it requires other prices, an infrastructure, a mapping, a rescue service which is expensive and for which we have a responsibility. We share this responsibility with the other states with the coasts of the Polar Sea, as stated in the Ilulissat Declaration of 2008. In addition, we in the Nordic Council have created agreements for a shared responsibility, which it has also decided in the Arctic Council to bear jointly. But it's cost-effective. It is the coastal states that have the primary responsibility and it takes time to implement these services, for example. to develop the drones that can conduct search. In addition, military surveillance, which we have agreed on in the defence circle, has become no less relevant in view of the increasing Russian military interest in the area. It is a Danish responsibility, which we have to promise, showing at the same time how important the kingdom community is in the future also for Greenland. For although Greenland does not have the greatest resource interest right now, interest can come back, and in any case Greenland has an increasing geopolitical interest in the world. The protection of Greenland and Greenland's interests is therefore best taken care of for Greenland and with Greenland through a strong and mutually loyal kingdom community. And Denmark must put more effort into this, which will then also contribute money to Greenland. So now Greenland is facing serious economic problems with deficits in the state budget, hugely growing unemployment, increasing poverty and associated increasing emigration, all of which has been made worse by the fact that the large investments that were expected did not come anyway. To solve these problems and correct them is Greenland's own responsibility. It follows the Act of Self-Government. It will therefore be untimely interference if we inform Greenland of what to do in this Parliament. There is probably a need for structural reforms, as the Greenland Economic Council has recommended, and of course in order to improve the Greenland revenue base, that goes without saying. There is also a need for a better infrastructure, better development of tourism, a change in taxation, better education and strengthened research institutions, where I think we should help to make Nuuk, in cooperation, the Arctic Research Centre par excellence. All of this, of course, Greenland itself knows, and it is up to Greenland to implement the changes it chooses to embark on. But Greenland needs to know that we will assist Greenland as best we can and listen to the wishes that Greenland may make. Because in the Kingdom community we must understand and assist each other, otherwise it does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205115756	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 1 p.m. with the rapporteur's speech by Johan Lund Olsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130037	The meeting is open. We were so little in the process of concluding the series of speeches, but it turns out that Mr. Johan Lund Olsen would have liked to have asked Mr. Per Stig Møller about something. That's why Mr. Per Stig Møller so kindly now to go to the platform and then we can get the question from Mr Stig Møller. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130101	Thank you. Then Per Stig Møller had the opportunity to exercise a little by going back and up on the platform. It's mostly a comment, but I just think it's so nicely liberating when the Folketing also looks into itself and itself. For Per Stig Møller came up with something that was quite right. It is also necessary to relate to the fact that you yourself have helped to worsen Greenland's economy. After all, the rapporteur was quite right to mention the new Thulebase contract that an American company now stands to have. If they get it, there are many indications that Greenland will lose some 240 million. The rapporteur was also right to refer to a comparison with Danish circumstances, for that would be like a sudden lack of 240 billion. kr. in the Danish state budget. So these are very serious matters we are talking about, and I would like to sign for and thank the rapporteur for coming in and taking a perspective on this. It might be interesting to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about that situation, but it may come later.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130221-2	We can look forward to the Prime Minister coming to the floor to round off the debate. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Johan Lund Olsen has captured my message. Greenland's economy is very poor, but I also stressed that there are things we can do to this extent without interfering in the law of self-government. There were, for example, That thing with sealskin. There have been successive ministers working for this. But there we can work to improve the conditions for seal hunters, those who treat sealskins and those who sell sealkins, that is, the Inuit rule. There is also the whole fisheries policy, where you can look at what Denmark can do to help Greenland with Greenland's quotas. Then, of course, there is Thule, where I believe that Greenland's income base has come into a risk situation due to the government's change of agreement with the United States from December 2013. I am well aware that Greenland has been involved in all the meetings that have taken place, but it is still a situation that a Danish government has created or helped to bring about. So when we talk about how bad the Greenland economy is going, too, and Greenland itself needs to correct it; there is a self-government law, where you have responsibility for the economy; so there are things for which we have a responsibility and which we can do something about. That's the point of my speech. However, I look forward very much to hearing the reactions of the Prime Minister and Finance Minister with regard to Thule.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130348	Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130349	Thank you. Sir. Per Stig Møller mentioned another area which also makes the Greenland economy worse, and that is precisely the seal skin ban from the European Union. Well, there is an inuit exemption, but it has actually meant a huge, huge loss of revenue for our own company, Great Greenland, but also direct financial losses for settlements and outlying districts in Greenland for a lot of prisoners' families, fishermen and prisoners. I just have one example. Six years ago Greenland's tannery had an annual turnover of 60 million. kr. It's down to 5-6 million. kr. Every year now. So it's something that can be felt. But this is something for which the Folketing is also jointly responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130436	Yeah, that's absolutely right. But there I think that the Danish governments have worked in good time and done what they could. But it is also an example of how we can do something. In our reign, therefore, we also had the exception for sealskin caught by Greenlanders because it does not take place as the Canadians' baby seal hunt. There is just the unfortunate thing about the fact that it has not really penetrated European consumers. But I think that the Danish side is doing everything we can to correct the situation. But this is an example of how we can also help improve conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130511	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130512	Thank you. I know, sir. Per Stig Møller has soaked his brain very well to find a clever answer to a question that he thinks I will ask. But I'm going to disappoint sir. Per Stig Møller by saying thank you for a very good rapporteur's speech. That is why others must not become mad at us today because it put things in a historical perspective and because Mr. Per Stig Møller also raised the question of what we can do in our part of the Kingdom community to remedy Greenland's situation. So a great thank you for bringing that nuance into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130556	I can only thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130601	There is one last question from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130605	It's just a simple question for Mr. Knox. Per Stig Møller. He said something about it himself. After all, for many years we had the pleasure of having Mr. Per Stig Møller as Foreign Minister, where he also showed a great commitment to Greenland relations. I'm actually gonna ask Mr. Knox. Per Stig Møller, if it is not entirely unthinkable that such important agreements would be made on Thulebasen without the Greenland Government being with us all the way? Could it be imagined that the Danish Government, in a situation where the Greenland Government opposed a new agreement, would simply implement it anyway? I know it's such a hypothesis, but it might be interesting to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130642	Well, I think I answered that question precisely in relation to my reply to Mr. Johan Lund Olsen. As far as I understand from the consultation that has taken place now, there is one more that Greenland has been represented at all the meetings, and that is completely in line with the Itelleq agreement that I entered into on behalf of the then government with Hans Enoksen on behalf of Greenland on his island, Itelleq. According to it, they must be involved when the Danish government negotiates Greenlandic terms with others. So I guess they've been in all the way. But so, I'm not sure it was the wisest decision to move the competence of who should have the contract at Thulebasen, from the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the US Department of Defence. I think that the Danish Parliament should also have been involved in this, but that was not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130729	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130730	I also thought it was a really bad deal that was made. We have also had the debate on this. What I am really just looking for is: if the Greenlandic Government had said quite clearly that it would not be involved, does the former Foreign Minister think that it had happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130748	Well, first of all, I guess I wouldn't have made that deal. Secondly, if we had had this situation, we would have said that if Greenland did not, we would not impose it on Greenland. To take a parallel situation, we had the situation with the upgrade of Thuleradar, where I told the Americans during the negotiations that they should not count on the Danish Parliament saying yes if Greenland said no. And to Greenland, I said, if you say no, it will be a no, and if you say yes, it will be a yes. I think I had been running the same line on this question, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130817	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we go back to the rapporteur's line, and I give the floor to Mr Beazley. Johan Lund Olsen as rapporteur for Inuit Ataqatigiit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205130838	Thank you, President. In connection with the opening debate last October, I said, among other things, that Greenland's economy is hard pressed and that Greenland's society will lack the means to maintain the welfare system that we know today. I also said that reforms of Greenlandic society are necessary and that new revenue is urgently needed. The seriousness of the situation today remains unchanged and, unfortunately, the prospects are not good. The questioners themselves have said so, and we agree with that in Inuit Ataqatigiit. Contrary to all predictions, the Greenlandic treasury is also facing a cannon deficit for 2014. The Greenland Financial Act 2014 originally budgeted with an operating and construction surplus of 20.8 million. kr., but by the end of the year the surplus has changed to a deficit of 275 million. kr., i.e. a difference of nearly 300 million. kr. Why this decline? One does not need to be an economic professor to know that this is due to swinging and declining fishing, decreasing raw material activities, decline in tourism and a decline in construction activity. These are therefore bleak economic prospects and dark clouds over the Greenlandic economy, which will even deteriorate considerably, because from October this year Greenland will no longer be able to benefit from the American military presence on Thulebasen if the agreement with an American shell company is not cancelled. That is the reality and reality of today's Greenland. It is clear, of course, that Greenland's Self-Government is responsible for economic policy and the priorities to be taken by Inatsisartut, Greenland's own parliament, within the framework of and with respect for the Self-Government Act. Inuit Ataqatigiit intends today to vote in favour of the proposal for adoption by Inuit Ataqatigiit, SF, Enhedslisten and Mr. Uffe Elbæk. We do so, although we believe that it is in principle inappropriate for a country's parliament, in this case the Danish Parliament, to hold a debate on the economy of another country. I think that is what is called interference in the internal affairs of another country. However, in Inuit Ataqatigiit, we would like to have both equal cooperation and a good and constructive dialogue, and in that spirit I am taking part in today's debate. Greenland's economy is therefore hard pressed, and Inuit Ataqatigiit is therefore also engaged in launching a number of reforms, including the following. in the area of fisheries, which will help to secure revenue from this for many years to come, as in our own reign. The reforms are urgently needed in Greenland in order to pave the way for stable and positive economic and economic development, which in turn can promote investment in all sectors of Greenland's society. When Inuit Ataqatigiit was a government-supporting party in Greenland, we conducted a stable and united financial policy with a balance between expenditure and revenue in our common budget, and we started the great reform work that would guarantee prosperity in the future. Indeed, a strong economy is at the heart of maintaining a system of solidarity in the future. We want to ensure that education for everyone, a strong and modern hospital system and a social safety net for those in a situation where they need help are also available in the future. Inuit Ataqatigiit wants a society with a much higher level of self-sufficiency and innovation. This should be done much more specifically, in cooperation with fishermen, hunters, farmers and other innovative producers. We have always and constantly engaged in drumming for a strong and sustainable society in development. We have a joint responsibility to ensure that the Greenland we leave to our children and grandchildren is a healthy, solid, fair, solidarity and open society, a society with a strong and open democratic system with room for everyone who wants to contribute and participate. It is not open to discussion that Greenland needs new income, a multi-faceted economy and a series of reforms in the field of business and housing and social affairs, or in other words, economic growth. We must recognise that our economy is under pressure. If we want to maintain our level of welfare as it is today, without any improvement, we must find approx. 1 billion kr. On average a year up to 2040. It is a great challenge, and it requires action. Inuit Ataqatigiit has always aimed at a fiscal policy based on solidarity, which is why we wanted to introduce progressive taxation. We are alone in this desire, but it is nevertheless possible to create a more solidarity and fair tax system than what we have today. That is why we will continue to ensure that the political reforms planned are all working towards improving the country's welfare system. Among other things, it has to be done. This is the case with the creation of a better framework for economic growth. The economic reform work must focus particularly on the social, housing and economic and tax areas, if it is up to us. We need to ensure that the framework for growth improves. In general, there may be a need to reduce production costs where possible. In addition, the depreciation rules need to be revised. Nor should we forget to discuss the purpose and roles of publicly owned companies. They represent a large proportion of our jobs in Greenland and secure supplies to all parts of the country. But we must also be able to think new things. Inuit Ataqatigiit will therefore continue our work to develop ownership strategies for the publicly owned companies in Greenland. Let me conclude by saying: there are plenty of opportunities in Greenland. If Denmark and Greenland can take the right approach together, it can be a win-win situation for all parties. That is why I am also pleased that something concrete is now happening with the Danish-Greenland business cooperation. Yesterday we received the report by the Danish Government and Naalakkersuisut on the promotion of commercial business cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. At Inuit Ataqatigiit we are particularly pleased with the new focus on cooperation on tourism and the raw materials sector. I look forward to reading the concrete recommendations of that report. Investments are obviously needed to create growth in Greenland again, but investments cannot only be made with money from the Greenlandic national bank. They must also be achieved through cross-border cooperation and through joint investment in growth. A growth fund for the whole Kingdom community will therefore also be a good start and an obvious topic to work together on our two countries and be of benefit to the Greenlandic economy. I would therefore like to end by asking the Prime Minister: what is the status in this area, i.e. the growth fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131614	A brief remark from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131616	I believe that today's most baroque remark came from the rapporteur when he said that the discussion here today is an interference in the internal affairs of another country. Oh, come on! So I would like to ask in this connection: is the shipment of almost 4 billion? kr. to Greenland every year an interference in another country's affairs? Because then we can just not. And by the way, sir... Johan Lund Olsen presence here in the Folketing as elected on Greenland an interference in Danish affairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131653	I do not think so. So, we have a constitution that Greenland is also covered by. The Constitution came into force for Greenland on 5 June 1953, and the Constitution states that Greenland is secured two places in the Danish Parliament and that Greenland is part of the kingdom. So I do not see that there should be anything unorthodox about a community, a community of kingdoms, contributing to each other, economically and humanly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131725	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131727	No, but I would also like to call on the rapporteur to moderate what he said. I understand that today we must have such a very good tone, and I therefore think that it is a really bad tone to say in the Danish Parliament as an elected member of the Folketing and a very appreciated member that we are now interfering in the internal affairs of another country. I must stress here: Greenland is not a country, even if Johan Lund Olsen dreams that it will be, or that it is. Why don't we stick to the good tone, 'cause otherwise I think it's gonna be all right, totally crazy? I'm very concerned about the good tone. Everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131807	Thank you. I'm very concerned about that, too. A good tone, good tact and tone. But we must also remember the reality. In 1979 we had home rule in Greenland, and after some 30 years we gained self-government. Sir. Søren Espersen sat with me in the Self-Government Commission, where we agreed and introduced and agreed on the draft law on self-government, which was adopted in the Greenland Parliament and also adopted here in the Folketing. It says in black and white that economic policy is Greenland's own responsibility. That is a fact and we must deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131843	Thank you to Inuit Ataqatigiit's rapporteur. And then I give the floor to Mr Siumut's rapporteur, Mr Siumut. Nick Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205131857	Thank you. We are in a community with each other, so I think it is healthy, and it is also good that we can discuss matters that concern Greenland. We just have to remember that we have an agreement: the self-government law, and then we discuss within the framework we have agreed with each other. When you want to judge a country's economy, it is natural to compare it with other countries. Among other things, it does. The EU when it sets convergence requirements for the economies of the Member States. The EU is looking at inflation where the maximum permitted is 1.7%. in 2014, and the estimate for Greenland is now 1.3 per cent. The EU demands that the annual deficit should not exceed 3%. of GDP. In Greenland we expect a deficit of approx. Two-and-a-half percent. of GDP for 2014. The EU wants public debt to be 60% maximum. of GDP in the Member States. In Greenland today we expect to be about 20-25 per cent. of GDP. I mention this so that we can get some reasonable proportions into this debate. Because in the short term, our economic starting point in Greenland is very sensible. In the long term, we are challenged by an ageing burden, i.e. the same demographic trend as for example. in Denmark. The new Greenlandic Government, as I understand it, intends to tackle this challenge. Thus our Prime Minister and Siumut's leader, Kim Kielsen, announced in his New Year's speech that a sustainability and growth plan should now be drawn up for Greenland. In addition, Naalakkersuisut now also holds a Greenlandic budget law according to the Danish model, a law designed to ensure an even stronger management of public consumption. So the reforms are on their way. A key issue for Siumut is to increase our tourism in the future. Therefore, we need to expand our airports, ports and hotel capacity throughout the country, and we would very much like to cooperate with Danish investors on this. It costs money to make money, and we do not get new income in Greenland without there being investment first. In addition, we have launched experimental fishing of several of the new species that migrate into our waters these years. That fishing is promising. Naalaksuisut will also ensure that the fish we catch will in future be more processed in Greenland instead of abroad. The increase in the value of products that we see happening today outside Greenland is very much to our liking in the future. Currently, the first new mine in more than 10 years is being built near Nuuk, and several projects are approaching the final application for exploitation permits. The large iron project at Nuuk has just been taken over by a capital-rich Chinese investor. There is absolutely no reason to write off the possibility of a growing mining industry in Greenland, because individual minerals now have a low price. I welcome the interest in Greenland among the parties that have tabled this question. Unfortunately, however, the premise for this debate is not correct. Greenland has neither a dramatically growing deficit nor a dramatic increase in unemployment. The deficit for 2014 is significantly lower than the figures sent in circulation during the election campaign and therefore they do not reflect the overall result of the year. In fact, unemployment is now falling directly as a result of the efforts of the Naala Suisut in the last year. If the intention behind this question is that the Danish Parliament should be of benefit to Greenland, it is some other signals that we must have promoted, namely signals such as those that have just come up with the new report from the Ministry of Business and Growth on commercial business cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. It is a report based on equal cooperation between our government in Nuuk and the Danish government, which points to no less than 12 areas where cooperation can now be undertaken in the interests of the Kingdom community. That is the way forward. In the long term, we, like others, are challenged by an ageing burden, but we take responsibility for ourselves and we are in the process of responding to the challenges. It would be good to use the energy in this country in future to discuss how Denmark can best help to promote this development in Greenland within the framework of self-government. Allow me to read the motion for a resolution that has been tabled in connection with this debate. Finally, I would also like to say, and this is also the understanding I have in this debate, that there is a lot of action on the way, but we should not forget that we must understand each other's values either. We have to recognise that we are different. We have that diversity, and the diversity that we have, we must exploit and have as a strength. I think we often underestimate that part. It would be good if we also took that part into the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205132545	Thanks to Nick Nielsen, who spoke for Siumut. And then the Minister for Finance concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205132602	Thank you very much. And thank you for one, I think, interesting and useful debate on the economic problems that have entered Greenland over recent years. As far as the government is concerned, that is how I tried to emphasise in my speech, and so did the Prime Minister that we follow the economic situation in Greenland closely, but that at the same time we respect Greenland's responsibility for economic policy, including the implementation of reforms. It is worth noting that during a long debate such as that we have had, there was not a single rapporteur in the whole of the Folketing who deviated from the agreement and division of labour on that point. It is obvious to me that Greenland has major economic challenges. As outlined by many rapporteurs, there are long-term problems with an ageing population with relatively high unemployment, a relatively low level of education and the prospect of rising public spending in parallel with weak economic growth. That is why it is necessary to ensure a balance between revenue and expenditure in the short and, above all, a little longer term, and I also understand that this is the aim of the national regime. And if that is to be achieved, I think it is relatively obvious that it requires both structural reforms and new revenue. One of the elements alone is not enough. If the self-government so wishes, the Danish Government would be happy to assist Greenland, among other things. through cooperation on business development on commercial terms and through administrative assistance in relation to reforms and governance of the public economy. It is of course the case that in Denmark, in the Danish context, we have quite extensive experience of this type of reform and this type of policy across a lot of political differences and discussions together. Very many reforms have been carried out in Denmark over recent years, and a framework work has been set up on the way we make reforms and expenditure management in Denmark. I think it is also true, as the rapporteur of the Left said, that it is not necessarily something that makes a crazy popular at first. It is certainly my experience, but it is of course useful in the long run. In this context, the situation is also in relation to the part of the debate which was about the fairness of raising this need at all, that in a Danish context we would very much like to have our own affairs debated in a large number of forums and listen to it. This applies to both domestic countries, for example. in the Economic Council, but also abroad, in relation to the OECD, to the IMF and to the European Union. Everywhere we discuss Danish economics, and of course we are willing to put up with a view to listening to what we have to say. I would also like to stress that when it comes to Danish investment in Greenland, I think it is an important and absolutely fundamental principle that they should be carried out on a commercial basis. It cannot be the case that we give priority to state engagement in Greenland at the expense of the commitment or expenditure we can make to welfare in Denmark. At the moment, government officials are also involved in an active dialogue with the Greenland administration on how we can help in relation to the issues discussed, and I hope that something fruitful will come of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205132928	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205132932	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. The Minister believes that not a single rapporteur in today's debate has set out to depart from the division of labour that we have, which is, of course, that it is the Greenland Government and the Greenland Landsting that govern Greenland's economic policy. But what does the Minister of Finance think of Mr. Søren Espersen's very clear, very square and very bastant announcements that we, i.e. The Danish Parliament and the Danish Government must demand Greenland what economic policy they are going to pursue? This must surely be seen as a departure from the division of labour that we have adopted and agreed with the Greenlanders. So there was another rapporteur who was able to spot at least a few of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133019	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133020	Thank you. In a sense, it has become part of my political destiny to have to defend the views of other politicians and other parties occasionally. And that is not something I welcome. I think, sir. Søren Espersen can speak for himself and for the Danish People's Party, in relation to what should be Danish People's Party's view here. I take note of the fact that all rapporteurs have noted that the system of self-government clearly specifies who is responsible for what. And as far as I understand it, the Danish People's Party and Mr. Søren Espersen also behind the proposal for adoption which we have jointly proposed and which clearly states how we view this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133052	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133053	Thank you. I have no wish for the Minister of Finance to defend other political parties. After all, the Minister for Finance himself invited me to the question, because the Minister for Finance said so clearly that there was not a single rapporteur today who had proposed to depart from the division of labour we have agreed. I think so, sir. Søren Espersen clearly did. It does not help that he then votes in favour of a motion for a resolution in which there is something else, if he does the opposite in his own doing and the barn. That's just what I wanted the Minister of Finance to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133129	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133129-2	So, the product of the Danish Parliament's work today on this point is, I think, a very good proposal for adoption, which I welcome the Danish People's Party's backing, and so does the Danish People's Party together with a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament. After all, it is a proposal for adoption which expresses full and complete respect for how the division of work between Greenland and Denmark is in the Kingdom Community under the system of self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133151	Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen also has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133154	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance about the rather great challenge of balancing revenue and expenditure. The government has, as I know, been working on reforms itself and trying to balance revenue and expenditure. Where does the Minister of Finance see the possibility that Denmark can provide knowledge so that more and more sustainable income can be invested out of e.g. the living resources that are in Greenland? And where does the Minister for Finance see the possibility of closer cooperation in the field of science and research, which is, after all, some of the work that has been completed, including the work that Minik Rosing led?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133247	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133247-2	After all, I am neither an expert in the field of research nor in the field of business policy nor in the field of culture. I know that there is quite a lively, active cooperation between my colleagues and the Greenlandic authorities in the two areas and, as I said in my opening speech and as has also been mentioned in the course of the debate, a number of possibilities have been opened for Greenland in recent years, for example. Growth Fund and Export Credit Fund. I think that is a good thing. As far as I am concerned, then, where I have something to offer and where my ministry, the Ministry of Finance, has something to offer, it is all about helping to guide and help in relation to the things we have been successful in Denmark in recent years in managing public finances and implementing reforms. And there we are in the fortunate situation that I and Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen have been standing blamelessly together about a strong, tight governance of public finances, the introduction of a budget law and comprehensive structural reforms that ensure that we have a control over the Danish economy. And of course we can draw on that experience from the Ministry of Finance to our Greenlandic colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133349	Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133352	Yes, and I fully agree with the Minister. I think that some of what has been very positive is that it has actually produced results. But where does the Minister of Finance see the possibilities? We know, of course, that if we are to have a strong economy and also have great security in society, it is important to invest not only in private jobs but throughout the social area, the welfare area. That is also quite important. So where does the Minister of Finance see the possibility that we in Denmark can help to support and possibly invest, so that also in the field of education, health, infrastructure, IT, etc. can reach a level that will make reforms possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133433	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133433-2	I believe that the other way around is the way, and that is also what I, as Minister with Mrs Vilhelmsen as a colleague, have learned: if you do not manage the hard part of the equation, i.e. that you have control over the economy, carry out sufficient reforms and manage public spending, then, first and foremost, it goes beyond the soft part. As far as business investment is concerned, I believe that my best advice is to focus strongly on the fact that it must be done on commercial terms if it is to have a lucrative future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133504	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133507	Thank you. In my rapporteur's speech, I briefly mentioned the new report which appeared yesterday. It is a report prepared by the Government and Naalaksuisut on the promotion of commercial business cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. I had the opportunity to read it last night while flying from Greenland to here, but I wasn't through the whole report. There are a number of recommendations I think there are 12 • about this business collaboration between Denmark and Greenland. You're one of them. • the creation of an Arctic loan framework in the Nordic Investment Bank as access to capital from the European Investment Bank. This is also urgently needed, because we need risk capital in Greenland. There are a lot of creative young people in Greenland who would like to initiate some mineral projects, such as small-scale mineral exploration and exploitation of Greenland's non-living resources on a small scale. But they lack capital. So I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: which of these recommendations will the government specifically promote so that there will be a little more dynamism in the Greenland economy and more risk capital will be provided for the benefit of Greenland and for the benefit of jobs in Greenland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133651	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133652	I must admit that the report to which the rapporteur refers and which the rapporteur has apparently only just had the opportunity to study, I have not had the opportunity to study it in depth yet. If so, we will be able to follow up on this. I think that in relation to the two specific initiatives referred to by the rapporteur, activities are already under way. In addition, I would just like to state in general terms that this is the same answer that I gave to Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen that it is very important that we both Danish and Greenlandic have the very general premise, when working on this type of topic, that it should be able to carry itself commercially if it is to have a future that we dare to believe in. If you have that starting point, there are plenty of opportunities for cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133735	Will Mr. Johan Lund Olsen ask again? No. Then we thank the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Tuesday 17 February 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205133800	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate will be closed if you can call it closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I hesitate a little to go to the next point because a minister is missing it is the Minister of Education. Maybe someone could see if she's around. There is currently no connection with the government, and that is why I will have to postpone the sitting, which will then resume in five minutes' time. 13.45. I know you can come over here from the Ministry of Education in five minutes, so I think she's here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134446	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beazley. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134504	Thank you, President. With the bill, the municipalities will be able to set up international primary school services under the aegis of the local government. This improves the local capacity for local authorities to step up their efforts to recruit highly qualified foreign workers and to attract foreign companies. With the bill, municipal councils are given a great deal of freedom to design the primary school offer that best matches local wishes and needs. Education, which, according to the draft law, is to be given in kindergarten classes and 1st to 9th grade, must measure up to what is generally required in primary school. The language of instruction in a municipal international primary school must be English, German or French, according to the local council's provision. In the Danish subject, the language of instruction is of course Danish. Municipal international primary schools take up children who are subject to compulsory education by foreigners who are temporarily resident in the country on the basis of employment if parents want them to attend school. If it is not possible to meet all requests for admission to school, admission is subject to objective criteria, e.g.: distance or sibling criteria laid down by the municipal council. If there is a spare capacity at a municipal international primary school, Danish children and other foreign children living or staying in this country can also be admitted. The main idea in the proposal is to strengthen the ability of municipalities and companies to attract highly qualified foreign labour and attract foreign companies. But I would also like to admit that if a municipality wants to use this opportunity to take up the competition with an already existing free school with the same offer, then we are going after that municipality. The opportunity we are giving the municipalities today is expected to develop locally in cooperation with all the good forces and with respect for the existing offers. That is why we in the Left want to keep a close eye on it. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134723	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134726	Thank you. After all, the Left is a bourgeois party, and the Left is also in favour of supporting and strengthening free schools and private schools. The rapporteur has probably also read the consultation and consultation notes, and it is very clear that all free school associations and all private school associations are highly critical of this bill. And why are they? They are because they think that what is going on is distorting competition. For pupils at a municipal international school will go free, while pupils at international schools will have to pay. What is the rapporteur's position on this criticism, especially in view of the fact that the Left is a bourgeois party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134819	Thank you. I appreciate the question. Yes, the Left is a bourgeois party, and the Left is also a party that celebrates diversity. If some parents would like to have a different school offer than that offered by the state, then there should be an opportunity to do a free school. We are totally behind this. But we also recognise that there are areas of the country where there are no such schools, and thus the municipalities are significantly inferior to being able to attract foreign companies and foreign workers who can help to secure a tax base. That is why I also said in my rapporteur's speech that we are keeping a close eye on the fact that the municipalities are playing with the already existing offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134905	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134907	The rapporteur therefore accepts that municipalities can distort competition. What is the rapporteur's position on the idea that the Friskoleforeningen is of the opinion that only one to three municipalities in the country have a maximum need?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205134930	Thank you. I do not like the idea that this can be used in any way to distort competition. That is also why I am saying that this is something we are keeping a close eye on. The municipalities have been given an additional degree of freedom so that they can help to satisfy the demand for these school offers and ensure that highly qualified foreign workers can be attracted to create growth and employment in Denmark. The Danish People's Party, which is also a bourgeois party, should also be in favour of this idea, so I think that we should put this ship together in the lake. For this can be crucial for a Danish municipality to have the ability to attract foreign companies that can help ensure a higher tax base and thus growth and employment. So I would urge the Danish People's Party to jump on this bill so that we can jointly ensure that it is implemented in a way that creates joy all around, meets the intentions of the bill and is not abused.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135033	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then I give the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135043	From the Socialist side, and I am also speaking on behalf of the Radical Left, we are very happy with the proposal here, which makes life a little easier for our municipalities, who, together with us in here at Christiansborg, are working to create growth, development and jobs throughout the country. It is precisely the content of the proposal that makes it easier for our municipalities, which can choose to set up an international primary school on the basis of local needs and wishes. It is a good tool if you are to attract foreign expertise and foreign companies to the local area. Today, it is already the case that basic school offers can be set up on a private basis with international lines, but this is not the same as the fact that they exist in the municipality in question or that there are enough seats. KL also considers that the need will increase in the coming years, and that is why it is only good that with this proposal we are giving the municipalities a new opportunity, if they so wish, to set up a municipal school with either French, English or German as a language of teaching. As far as Danish is concerned, it is of course the case that the Danish language is to be used in the Danish language. It is a proposal that will benefit the whole country. It is indeed the case that our companies that use highly trained foreign labour are distributed around our country, and with the proposal here you can choose to meet local needs in the future that there is also a school for the children who temporarily live in the area because their parents work in a local company. It is quite reasonable that we should open up this opportunity, and the Socialists and the Radical Left therefore support the proposal and look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135215	A brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135217	Thank you. The Social Democrats' former elementary school rapporteur Troels Ravn spoke earlier about international schools, and he did so as former rapporteur Karen Ellemann, who, after the conclusion of the agreement, wanted international schools. And there Troel's raven answered very honestly that it would be a breach of conciliation. Now the Socialists, together with the government partner, have tabled this bill, and my question to the new rapporteur in this area should then be whether she shares Troels Ravn's view, that it would be a breach of conciliation to put forward proposals on international schools after the conclusion of the school agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135316	This is a municipal offer outside of primary school law. There is no doubt that this is not a conciliation breach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135324	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135325	It's very interesting what's going to be the answer here. If we look at the consultation answers, we can see that these municipal international schools can be set up in an existing primary school building if there are vacant premises. How, then, can this not be linked to the primary school law, the primary school agreement? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135353	This is gonna be independent schools with independent management. These are schools that are being driven from the framework that the municipalities are now setting. It is outside the primary school law; it is outside what is otherwise the law of primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135409	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Unfortunately, there is no room for two on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135435	What an eagerness. I didn't think we had a new member in the Danish People's Party! With this bill, the government has terminated the primary school settlement. It is the practice of the Folketing that conciliation parties may consider the conciliation terminated if resolutions or legislative proposals are tabled in the Chamber on subjects on which conciliation has been reached, and this is the case here. International schools were part of the primary school agreement, and the Danish People's Party said clearly that we would only enter into an agreement on primary school if the section on international schools got out of the agreement. You can just go back and look at the previous draft agreements, among others. from May 2013, when international schools appear in section 2.8 and it was taken out, as the conciliation parties acknowledged. Subsequently, the former elementary school rapporteur of the Social Democrats has clearly indicated to TV 2 that it was conciliation material when it expressed its desire for international schools. Let me also point out that the government wanted to make international primary schools part of the growth negotiations. However, our rapporteur, Martin Henriksen, reminded us that it was a piece of piecemeal substance, which everyone accepted, and then it was tampered with by the negotiations. In the Danish People's Party we are terribly sorry that the government has terminated the primary school settlement. We would like to remain in conciliation, but we can only say that it has now been terminated. This will mean that all conciliation parties are freed in the case of the primary school agreement. After the elections, we will take advantage of this freedom with reference to this legislative proposal if we get into a position where we can afford it, and that is not good for primary school. We promised each other we'd keep it quiet. After an election, a new majority by a simple majority can do what could not be done until today, and I can think of many things to which a majority could be found, unless the government sits down and takes the bill off the table, and it can still do so. I would like to say to our civil partners that it is still disappointing that an important partner should be bypassed in this way. This will not make it easier for any of us in the coming parliamentary period. The government defends itself with the fact that it is not a settlement breach because the law is bypassed by the primary school law. Then it is strange that the draft law refers many times to the primary school law, for example. Article 3 (3) 3 where reference is made to section 38 of the primary school law or section 6 of section 6. 2 where reference is made to the primary school rules on objectives, objectives of competence, etc. etc. I am not going to read all these references. I believe that the meaning has been understood. It is quite strange that the municipal international schools should be included in the quality report, which the municipal council has to prepare every two years in the primary school field, according to section 40 of the primary school law. It is also apparent from a consultation note that any vacant premises at a primary school may be used, provided that there is a clear institutional separation between the municipal international primary school and the primary school. Can it really not be seen that this area is very much a subject of conciliation? Let me stress that DF is not against international schools as such. We are in favour of free and private schools being able to set up international schools and lines, preferably in cooperation with the business community. The last one's gonna pick it up. The Danish business community has developed a cash aid mentality that means that you want the public to pay for everything. In this case too much paid foreign employees' children's schooling and well to mark employees who are used to paying in expensive sentences outside Denmark. We find it difficult to see that a workman Hansen's tax money has to pay for the children of a highly paid foreign employee to go to school free of charge. But perhaps the intention is rather to get foreign employees with low wages to the country so that they can act as wage printers. In addition, the municipal international schools do not meet the IB standard, which means that the children of foreign employees cannot enter an IB when they leave Denmark again. We have also noted that the Danish Private School Association, private colleges, the Danish Free School Association, the Association for Christian Free Schools, the Lille Schools and also the Germans in Nordslesvig, the Fødskoleforeningen and the Free School Teacher Association criticise the bill because 1) it is estimated that there is only a need in 1-3 municipalities, 2) because it can distort competition with private and free schools, 3) because the teaching becomes free, 4) because the supervision is inadequate in relation to the Free School Inspectorate and 5) because international free and private schools can meet the needs. As so often before, the Danish People's Party faces the united international front alone in the Folketing. We shall vote against and consider the bill to be a breach of conciliation, and we are very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135939	There is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205135942	Thank you. This is an extremely interesting twist. It's just to completely understand it, because it may be that I'm a little slow in my perception: Does the Danish People's Party no longer consider itself part of the primary school settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140002-2	We consider ourselves to be part of the settlement. It is the government that has now terminated it with this bill. We would like the government to take this bill off the table, so we still have a settlement. It is normal practice in the Folketing that when a resolution or legislative proposal is tabled in an area where a settlement and agreement has been reached, it is deemed to have been terminated. That's just what we quietly point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140032	Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140033	I understand that, and I can fully follow the rapporteur's description of the course of events. And regardless of the content of the bill we are now discussing here, it is reasonable to regard it as a breach of conciliation. But I just have to say: are there any other parts of the settlement that the Danish People's Party wants to take up again, considering the public school settlement to be terminated?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140105	After the election, we can take anything up. After all, all parties are free when a government has terminated a settlement. I can think of a whole lot of things, and I also believe that Mrs Merete Riisager can think of some things, even though she is not in the conciliation. I think the Conservatives also have some wishes in this area. I'm really a little upset, and I think it's bad for the government too that we're going to be so free. Because that will mean that some of the things the government has fought hard for, we can start to look at, that is, things that the bourgeois people have not been so happy about. And the government knows what it is. I just have to call on the government once again to take this bill off the table for the sake of the primary school agreement and for the sake of the children and the tranquility that the primary school really needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140154	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140201	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal we are debating now is a legislative proposal which is a consequence of our living in a globalised world. We need to be able to attract qualified foreign workers, researchers, artists etc., and we need them to come to Denmark and help develop at a high international level. Therefore, if we want to attract qualified foreign labour and, above all, attract foreign companies and knowledge professionals, it is crucial that we can offer a framework that can actually ensure a well-functioning everyday life for some people who come to Denmark more or less lastingly. It is not enough to lure good wages and working conditions. We also need to create educational opportunities and life opportunities for the whole family when they move to Denmark. If we do not do so, it can affect the incentive to move to Denmark, which can damage diversity and ultimately harm Danish business. No one can be interested in that. The skills and skills that students learn by going to an international school are compatible with the knowledge and skills that they acquire in other international schools around the world, and therefore it is of great importance for the attraction of skilled labour, which is often people who change jobs and change countries frequently. Having said that, it must be pointed out from this that this way of legislating must not become a slippery path towards dividing the primary school to care for private interests. International schools are just a complement to other initiatives. It is perfectly correct that it has also been mentioned from up here that we have a primary school law, and we have a law that applies to free schools and private schools, and now we have Bill No. L 130 a law which is next to the primary school law; outside the primary school law. I think we should follow this very closely and I would recommend that evaluations of this initiative be carried out. Because it is quite true that since it was not possible in the primary school circle to obtain support for municipalities under the primary school to be given a legal basis for setting up international schools under the primary school law, this is a way to equate. It is a slippery slope, and we must be extremely aware of how it can affect the other forms of school. What is important about international schools when we start again from the children is that it should be a good offer also to Danish children with bilingual parents if it turns out that international schools cannot be filled with children who come here and go to schools, i.e. those for which the schools were created. Then it must be possible, if the municipality can approve it, that the children can then be admitted to these schools where the learning can take place in the mother tongue. What is central here is that the costs are the responsibility of the local authorities. These are schools that work without parental pay. Parental fees may not be charged, but on conditions such as those in the primary school, payments may be charged to the SFO. We are quietly in favour of the proposal, but I would very much like to point out that we will be following developments in the matter very closely, because it is a law which is exceptionally adopted outside the primary school law. In the best of all worlds, there should have been so much sympathy in the primary school circle that this offer could also have been established under the auspices of the primary school. It wasn't possible. We also have very good initiatives under the National School Act with profile schools, and we already have some good opportunities in free private schools. But here it was not possible to achieve it. I would just like to draw attention to one difference before I conclude and say that we agree with the proposal. There's a slight difference in the purpose clause for the primary school and then the purpose of this that relates to the international schools. The purpose clause of the Folkeskole law ends with the purpose being freedom of spirit, equality and democracy. That part is not part of this, but that is why I expect that this is what international children and young people meet when they meet a school in Denmark. We agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140649	A brief remark from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140652	It is always nice when a socialist wants to benefit Danish business, for which the rapporteur should be thanked. At the same time, she wants to provide a framework for the children of these foreign employees, which is why she supports the bill. But that can already be done today. Free and private schools can create international lines and schools, which the Danish People's Party also supports. I know that the rapporteur comes from Funen, where there are many free schools, and that the rapporteur is also an advocate of free schools and is in favour of free schools and has therefore said so many times. Does not the rapporteur mind when she reads the consultation answers from the free school associations and private school associations, which really criticise this proposal harshly because it exposes them to unequal competition? What is the rapporteur's position on this scepticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140752	Yes. I would just like to put down a myth: I simply do not know whether we have to go back to the time before the Jelling Stones before, as a socialist, we were not concerned that there was sustainable growth in society, that there were jobs, that there were opportunities to live. It is simply a very old-fashioned thinking, I have to say, and if anyone has been concerned about the fact that there is momentum at home and that there is an international outlook. I think it's a little weird, like Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen is coming with us here. For if the Danish People's Party had really wanted it on the basis of a good bourgeois thinking, which I expect the Danish People's Party to represent, then it would have been possible to equate the primary school, as we know it today, and implicitly to allow municipalities, under the auspices of the primary school law, also to be able to create international schools, so that we had retained a primary school and a free and private school. The two forms of school are both very important in order to be able to say that we comply with section 76 of the Constitution. There is free choice of school, we do not have compulsory schooling, we have compulsory education. But the Danish People's Party did not want that. I am very sorry about that, but then the intention in relation to the children who come here is that they also have the opportunity to be able to cope if they go on with their parents. I think we have an obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140915	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205140916	In the Danish People's Party we believe that Danish taxpayers' money should go to a primary school where Danish and not all kinds of other languages are taught. That is, of course, the crucial difference between us and the rest of the House. Then the rapporteur mentions that the legislative proposal itself is a slippery path. That's right, and it's a slippery slope by a canyon, because when you end up on it, you go all the way down. And that's what's happening. After all, the draft law is a piece of conciliation; the rapporteur himself has said that it was part of the negotiations. Does the rapporteur not agree with the Danish People's Party that this is really a matter of conciliation and that such a bill cannot be tabled at all if one is sincere and remembers the negotiations that took place? I know that the rapporteur was not with most of the way but still.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141008	No, I don't agree with that. I have just explained this and said that it was a wish of a large part of the conciliation circle that it was possible to create international schools under the auspices of the primary school law. Then the Danish People's Party has an ideological battle against other languages, and I must say that no matter what, Danish is a very small language, and must be able for children to grow up in Denmark • children who come here and have to be here 1, 2 or 3 years and then continue to be able to qualify in their mother tongue also in a school context. But the Danish People's Party was not interested in this, and it has to be said that it is an ideological disagreement. We are very open to diversity, but we are also very concerned that children should be allowed to develop in their mother tongue and become as skilled as possible. Moreover, I am very pleased that some of the researchers, knowledge workers and artists at all possible levels who come here also contribute to the Treasury and pay taxes. After all, we must also welcome this when it happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141116	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141118	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. First of all, I have a comment to make, and then I have a question for the rapporteur. I think it has emerged several times from the debate in this Chamber on this point, as if foreign workers working in Denmark do not pay taxes in Denmark. Of course, you pay taxes in Denmark when you work in Denmark. It was just a misunderstanding. So this isn't sir. and Mrs Jensen, who is going to finance this alone. In addition, I understand from the rapporteur that perhaps the rapporteur was • I do not want to say critically I would say such a little concern about parts of this bill and like the Left was very keen that this was going to work as intended. Should not the rapporteur, together with me, propose to the rest of the parties who intend to vote in favour of this, that we should have a review clause, so that we bring this law forward in x number of years as it is now, and then we are looking at whether it has met and satisfied the needs that it was intended to satisfy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141220	Indeed, and I think that would be quite sensible in general when we come forward with new legislative proposals, that is to say, that we follow this closely and that, of course, we are also always aware of whether it meets the purpose it has. So we can perhaps go in and see that there is to be an evaluation in a certain number of years' time when the legislative proposal is being examined by the committee. I think that would be quite sensible, and hopefully we will also learn more about this. I would just like to say that I was not the one who said that no tax was paid, that is to say that it should be Mr. And Mrs. Jensen, who paid taxes to other people's children. On the contrary, it is not correct and I have not said it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141254	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141256	Disappearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141301	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Merete Riisager, who understood that the SF rapporteur also spoke for the Radical Left. No, the Social Democrats did. In any case, it is now Mrs Merete Riisager who speaks for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141320	Thank you. I'm just talking for myself today. We are now discussing L 130 on international municipal primary schools. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very concerned about internationalisation throughout the education sector and we believe that there are many opportunities to provide a better outlook in different parts of the education sector. So in the primary schools too, and we would like to see new opportunities opened up, such as the one on the table today. What we are not so positive about here's proposal is that it has been done in such a way that the common framework conditions for the overall primary school are somewhat skewed. That is to say, today we have international primary schools, which are private, and they are put at a disadvantage by this proposal, so that there will be unfair competition. This results, among other things, in a number of areas. by the fact that municipal schools can be set up at all times of the year, whereas private schools must be reported on 15 August of the previous year. There are even a large number of conditions in which private schools are placed at a disadvantage. There is less flexibility in relation to the composition of pupils, and it is also the case that municipalities can provide funds to municipal international schools outside the existing framework, which in turn puts private schools at a disadvantage. So we believe that the proposal on the table should have been examined from such an overall perspective of the state of the primary school as such in Denmark and how we ensure that there is a healthy balance and that the pupils who are currently in well-functioning private international primary schools are not simply transferred into the municipal framework. What we need to be concerned with is that there are the best possible offers, that there is healthy competition between the different types of school, and that the framework is thus more evenly distributed than what is in this proposal. So we are slightly surprised at the way in which the proposal is drafted. We are positive about the intention, but we are not going to hit the green button and probably not the red one either. We see an opportunity to discuss this and we would very much like to see some adjustments made so that a better legislative proposal is put on the table. So allow me to say, as I stand here, that we of course find it very, very interesting that with this bill the Danish People's Party considers the entire primary school settlement to be terminated. This is a completely new situation, which we look forward to seeing the other parties deal with as well. It is of course the case that the primary school is generally extremely pressured at the moment by the many, many changes that lie in the overall reform of primary school. You fight right now out there with arms and legs, and it's really hard to get the opportunity to stay focused on core professionalism. There's so much noise with this reform, so it's just too hard to keep school. Therefore, we are happy to look at the developments outlined by the Danish People's Party here, and we look forward to hearing what the views of the other parties are about it, and to try together to see how the primary school can get some more air to drive school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141719	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141722	Should the Liberal Alliance not vote against this proposal? Because, as the answers from the private schools show, they are very sorry. After all, the proposal is a distortion of competition in that pupils in municipal international schools go to school free of charge. We know, of course, that the Liberal Alliance is a liberal party, which they themselves claim to be, and thus also support the private initiative. This is more like the Socialist International, so shouldn't the Liberal Alliance vote against the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141800	The question for a liberal party is, of course, whether we should vote 'no' here and welcome the intention, or vote 'yes' and then try to get it right. Quite frankly, there are dilemmas in politics. But we are also concerned that certain degrees of freedom are given to municipal schools. It is, of course, a liberal issue, and that is what this proposal is all about. We are very sorry about the way it has been designed and we think it is a little clumsy that private primary schools have not been sworn in and listened to, so that a better framework could have been created for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141843	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141844	Of course, I am not going to recommend what the Liberal Alliance is going to do down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I would urge the rapporteur to go home and talk to his group once more and, in the meantime, have a talk with the free school associations. Because they say very clearly in their hearing answer that they are against it and that they think it is a bad proposal and that you should vote 'no' they are not saying 'no', but it is almost in the consultation answers. So I just want to call on the Liberal Alliance to restore its liberal heart and vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141917	You know, it's always really nice to have some advice from sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. I'm happy to listen to them. But with regard to liberal politics, it is clear that I am listening more to the real liberal politicians in my own party. As I said, we would like to see more degrees of freedom for the municipal schools very much. We are also concerned that there is fair competition between the different parties. And that's a dilemma. We're sorry that a good intention has been designed in this a little clumsy way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141948	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205141956	Thank you. The fact that the municipalities now have the opportunity to set up international primary school offers is a good initiative... even a necessary initiative in a globalised world. We already have international private schools and many of them work very well. Now the municipalities are coming where there is potential for it. There are areas in the country where there is a very high concentration of international companies or Danish companies with many international employees. In these areas, this bill will strengthen the possibilities for both maintaining and attracting both companies and labour. If there is available capacity, the municipalities will also be able to include Danish children in the schools, and in some cases this will undoubtedly be a good opportunity for some parents who may have opted out of the municipal school in favour of e.g. an international private school. I have no doubt that for some municipalities there will be an opportunity to withdraw resourceful families to the municipal school offer through some of these international primary schools. In my circle of friends, I have several couples who have lived and worked abroad, for example. in the United States, France, Dubai or China. They've had their children in international schools. Some of them have then returned to Denmark for periods, perhaps for a few years, and there was the natural choice for them that during those periods the children should continue in an international school. There were just no municipal offers, so in several cases they had to transport the children very far in order to make a private offer. This also applies to families who have lived abroad and who may have returned to Denmark more permanently. I know that the municipalities welcome this, and so do many of the major international companies and a number of both Danish and international families. It improves our opportunities to attract foreign companies and recruit international labour, and it is really, really important for society. That is why we support the proposal. However, as several have already mentioned, we also think it is very important that we follow this closely and that we evaluate the creation of the first international primary schools in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142223	There are brief comments. The first one's from sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142227	The rapporteur was not the rapporteur during the negotiations. In fact, apart from Lotte Rod and the Minister, I am now the only one who shows up for the conciliation meetings that have been replaced enormously. That is why it is a breach of conciliation that has been presented by the government down here, and the conciliation has thus been terminated, and we are all free to do so after the elections. But I have to ask the rapporteur a question anyway. What I want to ask is that these municipal international schools do not stay according to IB standards. How does the rapporteur feel about this? This means that the children of foreign employees cannot simply go to another country and go to an IB school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142328	In relation to the first part of the conciliation, I would like to say that I know that the Minister will be in the Chair in a moment, so I will let her answer that. After all, it is the Minister who administers the conciliation and, as the rapporteur rightly said, I myself was not part of the negotiations at that time. So the minister is allowed to answer that question. Several people have already mentioned this, so perhaps there are things in this that could be improved, and that is why, at the end of my speech, I also stressed that I think it is really important that we follow this closely and evaluate it. Because it may well be that there are elements that can make this an even better initiative. I am not sure that is what the questioner meant, but I think that, as the questioner says, there are some things that we need to follow, and perhaps we come to the conclusion that it might be worthwhile to change some of those things, for example. in relation to the relationship with other IB schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142429	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142431	The reason they don't follow the IB standard is because it's part of the primary school. We're scalping these international schools after primary school. The next question I would like to ask is something I would like to note that the rapporteur mentioned, namely that these municipal international schools can enable businesses to recruit foreign workers. How does the rapporteur know? I'd like to know. Are these reports telling you?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142502-2	I myself have had the pleasure of living abroad for years and several periods, both on one side and on the other side of the Atlantic, and so have so many in my circle of friends. And I know how much school means and how much you look for exactly the right school offers when you have to make such big decisions as for example. to move to another country to settle and work. Therefore, I have no doubt at all that for people who are offered a job in Denmark or are given a job opportunity, or for companies who are considering establishing themselves, it is of great importance which school offers there are. I am not at all in doubt about that. For many of these people, it means a lot that children can become part of an international school environment. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I know from my own circle of friends that even when you have returned to Denmark, it has sometimes been the right offer to remain in international schools. So I have no doubt at all that it will strengthen the opportunities for many municipalities to attract skilled labour and perhaps even attract larger international companies to the local area if you have international school offers. Of course, this should not be a competitor of the private and free schools, as several have also mentioned. That is not the purpose of this for us. It has to be a supplement where you don't have these international private school offers. There are a lot of places you don't have, and that's why I think this can be happening in several places around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142641	Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142646	Thank you. I have two questions. The first is that the rapporteur sees some really amazing opportunities in L 130 in relation to growth. So, in the Liberal Alliance, as I said, we are fully involved in the fact that the municipal school must have more degrees of freedom, and we would like them to have the opportunity to set up international primary schools. However, I think that this growth perspective may be drawn somewhat further than what is really realistic. We are in here discussing, but there is also a world out there with some very real conditions. Will the rapporteur not confirm that all the private schools that exist, which are international primary schools, have available capacity, as is currently the case? It's just to take it. I would like to ask specifically: the Danish People's Party considers the public school settlement to be terminated by the government with L 130. How does Conservatives view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142746	It may well be that the growth agenda is equal enough if you think about it in relation to the national perspective. But I don't think it is if you think it in relation to a municipality. As an example, I could imagine my own municipality, which is such a nice Danish average municipality, which has no offers of this kind whatsoever. No one is saying that these should be huge schools, but the fact that you might have had an international offer could easily make it not only be able to attract international labour in some of the companies where it is current, but also attract just one international company. This could be a very, very exciting growth perspective for a municipality. It could also be in a regional perspective. Because I agree that there are probably places around some of the private and free international schools as there are, but there are a limited number of them also in some particular areas of the country where there could be potential for it. In relation to the conciliation, I have to reply, as I also replied to the questioner from the Danish People's Party, namely that the Minister administers it, and therefore the Minister will be allowed to reply to it in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142858	Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142900	Thank you. Should I understand this in the sense that Lolland or North Jutland or Funen have to set up international municipal schools in the hope that companies will then arrive? So it has to be the other way around: to set up a municipal school, which is international, and then hope that companies will come to that municipality? Otherwise, I don't really see how it's going to attract businesses. Should we have more capacity available, or what is the rapporteur's view? Because today, if there is a need, the market is responding. The rapporteur is from a party that at least believes in market forces, so if there was a need, would they not have arisen in private? It's just to ask again about this growth perspective that I think gets everything it can draw.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205142951	I believe that must be the responsibility of the municipalities to assess this individually. It's hard to get smart. I can easily think of examples from my own part of the country where it has not been discussed and where I have never heard of it, but where I could easily see growth opportunities in it. I understand the questioner's perspective, namely that it gets just hard enough on the growth drum, but I think it's about what perspective you see it in. This is something the municipalities are creating. And that is something they create, precisely on the basis of the law, and it is also defined in the draft That is why it is their offer, their choice, and that is why I also have full confidence that the municipalities will find a balance and create them where it is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143043	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143055	I would like to thank you for the very broad support for the draft law, which allows municipalities to set up international primary schools. I must say that the Enhedslisten, which unfortunately does not have the opportunity to be present, also supports the bill. I would just like to go into the growth agenda a little bit, because that is what has been discussed as one of the points. This is exactly an opportunity for the municipalities. As I think the Conservative rapporteur has explained very well, this is precisely to enable it to be done in a place where there is no private international school. They are there and they are good and they are well-functioning, but they are very scattered. And where there is a need for an international primary school offer, in other words where the municipality considers that it will support both the ability to attract and maintain international labour, which is in the area for a period of time, that possibility is opened up. And it's on the municipality's own account and risk. It is important to be able to do so. It is not because we have the idea that many municipalities will seek it. We have been approached by some municipalities, and it is also on the basis of a request from KL that this possibility should be established. And that is why I am pleased that there is such broad support for giving the municipalities that opportunity. Then Dansk Folkeparti has stated that it should be a break with the primary school settlement. Of course it isn't. This doesn't affect the primary school law. It is true that the government and the other parties in the public school circle wanted it to be set up so that it lived up to the provisions of the primary school law, of course, with some changes in relation to language requirements. The Danish People's Party opposed this, and we respect 100% of that, of course. This also means that the draft law here on municipal international primary schools does not require us to do exactly as they do in primary schools. This doesn't change the primary school law. It is its own law, on its own terms. Finally, if we are to say that there is some inspiration, it is in relation to the degrees of freedom that the free primary schools have, which also have their own law and which, moreover, are not subject to conciliation. But here it is given the opportunity to a municipality. That brings me to the next point I would like to make, because we have made a great deal of effort in this respect, and it is also a continuation of something which is of particular concern to the Left and which has also been pointed out in some of the answers to the hearings, namely that it should not be a distortion of competition in relation to private offers that can do the same. As I said, it is not very many places that are international private primary schools, and that is why we are opening it up. However, in order to stress that this must not distort competition, it has actually been introduced, among other things. Further to the consultations of the Danish Private School Association and the Danish Free School Association, the following in the comments to section 3.2.1., sixth paragraph of the bill, and I read out: In assessing the need to set up a municipal international primary school, the municipal council must examine the possibilities of obtaining the necessary places for international free primary schools (...) in the local area. So it is precisely to emphasise further that there is of course no idea in creating one if there is already a well-functioning private international primary school. Why would a municipality do that? But it has just been put in place to avoid the suspicion that they may be out-dated. There are from among others. The Conservatives and the SF's side was raised a desire that it should be written a little more clearly even though we always follow all the legislation • that the things that are going to happen should be evaluated, among other things. I hope that some of the concerns that could be will be put to shame. I think we should look at this in the committee work; it can be quite reasonable. So, with these comments, I would once again like to thank you for the broad support for what I believe will be an important addition to the various forms of school we have here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143454	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143500	Of course it's a settlement breach. I am here with page 8 of the draft agreement of May 2013, and there is a section 2.8 called Internationalisation, and there are two sections and they have square brackets. Section with square brackets was something on which we disagreed in the conciliation circle, and it had to be taken out. As a result, these international schools have been part of the negotiations. The Danish People's Party conditional on being involved in their removal. What the government is doing is setting up these communal international schools, which are like a primary school. The only difference is that the language of instruction is not Danish. So, of course, it is a conciliation breach and, of course, the public school settlement has been terminated after the elections. Does it really not concern the Minister that all parties are now freed after an election and can find a majority to make changes to the primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143608	I would like to stress that this is a separate school offer. And I can promise the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that if we had done what all parties except the Danish People's Party wanted, namely to give it as an opportunity in relation to the primary school, it would have brought about a number of changes. Then it would have been a completely different text. This is what I said, and this is what I said, leaning on what we see in relation to the free primary schools. This means that there are a number of degrees of freedom where you should not do it in the same way as in primary school. We and the other parties could have wanted that, but the Danish People's Party did not want to do so, and we therefore respected that it did not become part of the primary school law. That's why this school offer is different from what we had imagined. That is why it is not just degrees of freedom in relation to languages. This is in relation to teacher qualifications and to test forms, etc., where there are a number of degrees of freedom that we also know from the free primary schools. So this isn't a settlement breach. Of course, the Danish People's Party is free to resign. I would now like to call on the Danish People's Party to consider whether this would be wise, because I think it is important that we are together and that we also sign for the cooperation we have had in the public school society. And we have, in fact, made a great deal of effort to respect the fact that it is a conciliation circle, and that is why this is a completely different school offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143724	Then that is the second brief remark from Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143727	The Danish People's Party does not resign. We're in the settlement. It is the other parties in the Parliamentary Chamber that are now terminating the conciliation, in that they are in this bill and are voting for it. We're in the settlement, the rest are pulling out. I would like to emphasise this point. Then I just want to remind you that these municipal international schools can be set up in an existing primary school building. Parents don't get to know the difference. They just think it's a primary school. And all municipalities are allowed to set up these schools, including where there are international lines in private schools, and this will create unnecessary competition. So Minister: The Danish People's Party continues to call for this proposal to be taken off the table, so that in future we still have a settlement that the government has now terminated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143812	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143813	I would just like to say for the record that it is the government itself that chooses to terminate the settlement. Of course, we're not gonna cancel the settlement because this isn't about the primary school law. It is an independent school offer with a number of degrees of freedom that are not known in the primary school law. Moreover, this is something that all the other parties in the conciliation circle support. But it is in the same way as with the legislation for free primary schools. It is an independent law with the majority behind it. I now hope that the Danish People's Party will consider whether it is not a good idea to back up the public school settlement we have, because this does not include the primary school law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143853	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for round two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205143910	There is just a need to say a few things, because the Minister obviously does not want to hear what is being said. The Danish People's Party is in the school settlement, we are not resigning. We stay at the school settlement, we're happy to be part of it. What we're just seeing is that the government has terminated the settlement. It is normal practice in the Folketing that when a conciliation party makes a resolution or the government makes a bill on which there is an agreement or a settlement, the other parties may consider the settlement terminated. The settlement is valid until the elections, after which everyone is freed, and we are terribly sorry, because the primary school needs some tranquillity. We need six out of eight parties to be united in this, and I just have to say to the Minister and to the parties of the Danish Parliament that all parties must be respected. What is happening here is that there are five out of six parties to an agreement that does not respect the wishes of the Danish People's Party. It was clearly part of the primary school agreement that if we were to be involved in this, we would not have to set up international schools. Then you do it that you set them up in such a cunning maneuver and admitted, it is simply not okay, and then I just have to draw attention to it again, and I repeat it deliberately: the Danish People's Party does not withdraw from this conciliation. It's the government that's given it up. I have understood that much about the practice that is usually here in Parliament and I am a spring hare, I have only been sitting here for three years. I myself was on my way with a resolution at one point and had to withdraw it because I was part of the primary school agreement; that was before we concluded our primary school settlement. I just think it is an extremely bad way to treat your conciliation partners by putting forward such a bill. It is, in fact, when you cannot trust your conciliation partners that politics is the worst, and I have always trusted the Minister. In fact, I think that the Minister is well along the way, that she is a good minister and a good negotiator, and I did not imagine in my wildest imagination that I would stand down here with such a bill in my hands. I trusted that we had an agreement for the benefit of primary school. But the ideology that transcends the internationally oriented parties has simply made the temptation too great, and we will repeat this time and again. And after the elections we will point out what has happened here today and say: the government abandoned the primary school settlement; now we have to see what we can get out of it. We will remain in conciliation, and I would like to call on the rest of you to stay and say no to this bill. Let's get back to the negotiating table instead of this a little sneaky maneuver.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205144159	Thank you to the rapporteur, no one has wanted any further comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education if no one objects. There is not, and then I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205144221	The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205144241	Thank you for that, President. L 116 is a draft law amending the law on the use of Denmark's subsoil. The aim of the draft law is to implement parts of the European Parliament and the Council's offshore safety directive with a view to creating a uniform legal basis for the effective prevention of major accidents involving hydrocarbon activities in the sea area, to limit their consequences and to ensure that it is clear who liability is due in the event of such an accident. The EU offshore safety directive has been implemented as a result of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, and it aims to prevent similar accidents within the EU. For the Left, it is absolutely essential that we continue to pay attention to the safety of the extraction of hydrocarbons and that this is done in a sound manner at all times. We therefore support the proposal, the aim of which is to ensure that major accidents related to offshore oil and gas activities are prevented. However, I would like to ask the Minister, when examining the extensive legal material which contains a number of factors and concepts which I find somewhat unclear, to overlook the precise financial consequences for offshore activities in Danish waters, as a result of this amendment to the law, i.e. in crowns and ears, and I would have liked to have transmitted which parts of the proposal, if any, go further than the European Union demands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205144430	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205144437	Thank you. I do not think we are going to have a heated political debate, but that is not the same as saying that the proposal we are debating here today is not essential. Fortunately, it is the case that we rarely experience disasters on drilling platforms or anything else, but when that happens, it is, on the other hand, with almost incalculable consequences for the nature in which it happens, and very, very difficult to stop. We saw this particularly pronounced and perhaps most famous in the Gulf of Mexico, but we have seen it elsewhere. And without any of us believing that we have the same risk in the European Union, it is hardly possible to forgive ourselves if, after an accident has occurred, you can see that more could have been done. That is why, of course, we wholeheartedly support the fact that procedures are now being tightened up. It is, after all, an EU decision to create greater security when you extract, for example. oil and gas. It is a question of checking whether the companies that are to extract have the technical and financial capacities, i.e. whether they are able to carry out the task that they have set themselves. And it's not just such a bloc for those who are now allowed to do it here, but it's also true in the different phases where different capacities and different competences are required. And, of course, we need to get them under control. It is also important, of course, that you have not only the ability to drill, but also the ability to handle what might happen if there is an accident and therefore you have to clean up. In addition, it is of course also important to ensure that this has already been done in many permits, but it is not in the same way consistently written into the law that there is an insurance that promises the responsibility you may incur if something goes wrong. In addition, one day after extraction, the proposal addresses the part about how we ensure that it is not other rightholders or taxpayers or some others who subsequently end up with the bill to pick down and close down when you are finished, if I may say so. And, of course, it is required that it is part of the authorisation that you have such a plan for how it happens. Then it has been discussed whether there is any over-implementation, and I look forward, of course, to the fact that we in the committee will be able to discuss exactly what we are asking for. We are asking, for example. the same requirements for activities on land as for offshore activities, that is to say in marine waters, and we do so with open eyes, because we believe that there are also risks. And although it may sometimes be easier to deal with accidents on land, it is still important to avoid accidents and to make sure that they are safe in the best possible way. Even if the extraction of oil and gas or other things happens on land. The Socialists support the proposal and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205144738	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Socialists. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205144744	I can say straight away that the Danish People's Party also supports the bill here. We do not do this because it is an EU directive. After all, there are certainly some parties here in the Folketing who do not even need to read more than the first three lines, where it says that it is the implementation of an EU directive before they have decided to vote in favour. So if the EU directive said that the moon was a green cheese or the ground was flat, you would hardly notice. It would be passed by law. But that is not how we see it in the Danish People's Party. We are reading things carefully and we have decided to accept the bill here because it is simply common sense. Previously in this parliamentary assembly, the Danish Parliament implemented other parts of the offshore safety directive, which are intended precisely to ensure that there is good safety around the extraction of oil and gas from Denmark's underground. It is very important, as the previous rapporteurs have also said, that safety is under control so that we avoid the accidents which have been seen elsewhere in the world and which have had very, very serious consequences for the environment. We must avoid that here. There are many wise heads who have put themselves together to create the offshore safety directive, and I have to say that as a layman it can be difficult to know what a good or poor safety level is when you extract oil and gas. Fortunately, however, a great many people have expressed their views on this draft law and also on the previous draft law, and they are in favour of what the draft law says. It is very good that we have a strengthening of security here. We are also being asked how to ensure that the financial means are actually available to remove these drilling installations once they have been used up. One could risk that an oil or gas company drilling for oil would go bankrupt before it had removed these plants, and then there would surely be no one left but the taxpayer to pay for it. This situation will then be avoided by providing adequate security. So all in all, this is a good legislative proposal which we have found no reason not to support, despite the fact that it is the result of an EU directive. That is why I must say that the Danish People's Party intends to vote in favour when the bill is dealt with thirdly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145013	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. And then it is the radical rapporteur, Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145020	The Radical Left supports this bill because we believe that the law will ensure that underground drilling takes place safely for the environment, nature and employees. The law is the implementation of an international agreement which is mainly about following up a very serious accident in South America. With this law, applicants must be constantly assessed on the basis of whether they have the money and competence to carry out the drilling responsibly and to clean up once they have finished. It is absolutely essential that the bill for cleaning up after drilling does not end up with taxpayers. Radical Left sees the law as crucial for drilling for oil and other raw materials in Denmark. The Radical Left can support the bill as it stands and we look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145118	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Steen Gade for SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145128	Thank you. I cannot help but say something to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It is a bit cheerful that every time the Danish People's Party finds a proposal that is an implementation of an EU directive, a good part of the speaking time should go by saying that you have not been positive towards the EU, even if you support an EU directive. But I would like to say to Mr. Mikkel Dencker: I've been through that once, too, but it's been many, many years, and it's going to pass. So to the proposal here: we support the proposal. We think it is a good thing that better prevention is done in relation to major accidents. We think it is important for rightholders to be able to demonstrate that they have financial and technical capacity, that they also go in and look at the approval of operators, and that a guarantee is provided in relation to winding-up and clean-up. These are very important things that we fully support, and which we are learning from a very serious disaster. Fortunately, not close to us can see what is needed. It then extends some of the legislation here to apply on land. We think it is appropriate to do so too. This means that everything else will be a little more expensive to extract on land. We think it's very reasonable for companies to have that in mind. Another thing I would like to say here is that this does not mean that we have concluded a discussion on the possible extraction of shale gas. There, we believe, there are a large number of other matters that need to be considered and assessed if necessary. The last thing I would like to agree with is that these geothermal permits can be extended. It is filling up an EU directive and very sensible expansion of it in relation to the scope of the EU directive, by including a number of other things in the proposal as well. So at the end of the day: I really do not like the over-implementation of EU directives. EU directives are something we must do. It is as if over-implementation is something we do ourselves. Every time we decide something, they call it overimplementation. That's a very weird way to talk. I would also urge the government not to work in that. This is certainly not the choice of words used by the government, but it is as if the choice of words is contagious in the way it has been described.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145432	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. Then it's mr. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145437	I didn't expect this debate to give such an aha experience, but Mr. Steen Gade then, by pointing out that I still have the opportunity to change decisive political positions. I could on sir. Steen Gade understands that it was almost a law of nature and just a question of getting old enough and then you have to ask yourself how old you have to be when you are as hard-hearted as I am in that EU question. But I'm eagerly waiting for what can happen. Otherwise, this bill is a relatively modest legislative proposal, even if the cause is serious: a major disaster in oil extraction, which showed two things: that the safety rules were not sufficient and that it had not been ensured that the companies responsible for oil extraction were able to clean up after themselves. This has been tried to repair with some international agreements, something of which has become an EU directive and then become Danish law. And it is fortunate for the government's relationship with the EU and such things that this bill is sensible, because it also means that it can be adopted in the Danish Parliament. We think that the measures that lie here are sensible and that it is wise to implement them. We also think that the things that lie next to or beyond the EU directive are sensible, and I share Mr. Steen Gade's perception that this is then a strangely limited way of mentioning the opportunities we still have to make independent policy in Denmark, when you call it overimplementation. The most appalling thing is when the Danish People's Party starts to talk about over-implementing EU directives, because then you can get the impression that if independent, free decisions now get such an EU designation, that is a bad thing. So I fully agree with Mr. Steen Gade in, and I would say that even better, is that all the additional measures contained in this bill are also sensible. There is not much of what is important, but the fact that the same opportunities are given to geothermals as to the development of hydrocarbons is, if not all, at least an act of justice which it was time to put in order. Steen Gade for the recognition that has spread that I still have great processes of change ahead of me in the political game over the next two to three years, when I am old Mr. Steen Gade. Steen Gade then I will be much wiser on the EU issue, I understand, quite naturally it has been a relatively outramatic debate which allows us to vote in favour of this bill relatively unspoiled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145713	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145722	Thank you. An angle to the discussion about over-implementation could be that you call it over-implementation, if that is something you do not like and have to do. The Liberal Alliance can support this implementation, not overimplementation, just immediately by the offshore safety directive, which aims to prevent major accidents associated with oil and gas activities at sea and to limit damage to people and the environment should the accident be out. The proposal escapes with the amendments we have made in the past in relation to the marine environment law and the environmental damage law, as I think it was just before Christmas. It also wants to separate the competent authority from the resource authority, so that in future the Danish Energy Agency must leave the safety tasks to the Danish Labour Inspectorate, and that of course seems quite reasonable. Moreover, a large part of the legislative proposal focuses on the fact that it is possible to ensure that the technical and financial capacity is available when concessions are granted. Similarly, we also see aggravating rules for the operator, whereby the authorities can keep a leash on things. If things go wrong first, it cannot of course help that the state meets with a bankruptcy, which means that the clean-up work and the bill are in the hands of the public authorities. It goes without saying that there are huge sums at stake in such activities, which is why these provisions for more insight into activities seem reasonable and, above all, the fact that there will also be equal conditions for everyone in EU waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145907	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205145912	Thank you, Madam President. The Conservative People's Party also supports the draft law here on underground offshore work, and also shore drilling, and we do so because we support measures that aim to prevent and prevent accidents, and that is what this bill describes. These are the requirements for those who drill and handle extraction from the underground. It also specifies the rules applicable to the parties when they are involved in the underground work. And it is clear that the overall agenda here is protection and security, and of course any responsible party should be able to support that. Then it also says that the directive is being overimplemented, and I think that we should keep our tongues straight in relation to that, and we want the details of what it means to be described in committee. Because, of course, it is important that we take responsibility and that risks and accidents are prevented, but I also assume that the directive describes what is needed in order to avoid them. And when the government itself writes in the legislative work that it is an overimplementation, then it wants to go even further than the directive proposes. We're not quite sure we're in on that. In any case, we would like an explanation of exactly what the government means by that. So the Conservative People's Party is looking forward to clarifying this in the legislative work that is going on in committee and whether we are absolutely on firm ground when we talk about it. But apart from the point that the Conservative People's Party is insecure about, and is usually opposed to, because we basically tend to be dumb and to go a horse head in front of others, we have to get away from that, we have to do the same thing as others. We support the Conservative People's Party, of course, the basic element of the bill on protection and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150117	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150123	Sir. Mike Legarth finally emphasized here that we in Denmark should not be duks. I still think it is a new break in Danish politics that the Conservatives now distance themselves from being a dork. I wonder whether it is also spreading to politics in the field of primary education. But what I'd like to ask, sir. Mike Legarth, a little more seriously, is: Mike Legarth is not, it is important that we in Denmark take the lead in a number of areas compared with other countries, for example. in the field of the environment, even in cases where there are some EU directives that, in our view, are too poor or, at least, cause too poor a bottom-up level?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150200	I think that what is important is that we do what needs to be done and that we live up to the common agreements we make, that we live up to them to the letter. However, I do not believe that there is a separate positive agenda by going further than that in general. This is something to be carefully addressed in each case. In this case, I have nothing against those who choose to be a dork in a school class. I can only acknowledge and praise the fact that all tasks are carried out. It is often done in shifts, so it is also fair and democratically distributed. What I am talking about here is that, yes, we have to do what we have to do to protect ourselves from accidents and risks, yes, we have to make sure that safety is at its top, but I also assume that when the European Union makes a directive and describes what it needs to do in order for them to think that the common rules should be x, y, z, that is what we are doing. This is where you're supposed to do more than that. I would like to have that explained in detail and I would like to be convinced that it is right to go further than that, because if the arguments are not right, I do not think it is appropriate to agree to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150303	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150304	I just think it is a disappointing development that the Conservative People's Party is out in. In the old days, a conservative rapporteur would say that it was really important to take the lead, to do his best and to show that one was the best. Now it has become a conservative position that we are doing what we are obliged to do and not any more. Is it the basic position of the Conservative People's Party in political debates in the future that we in Denmark do what we are obliged to do, but that it must be the others who take the lead and provide their top?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150340-2	No, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Per Clausen, I must invite you to my former place of work in the Royal Life Guard. There we took pride and pride and responsibility, took the burdens on us, took democracy seriously, defended our country with our own lives and took the lead in that context for the country and for the community. However, when it comes to having to take the lead in paying bills, to taking on costs and burdens for business, which are beyond what is necessary, because the experts have laid a certain basic level, we will think that that is enough, because what this is all about is not taking the lead just to take the lead. It is a question of meeting what needs to be done in order to avoid accidents and risks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150442	Thank you very much for your comments on the bill. It was a good, edifying discussion, which also taught me a little from each. I don't know if I'm in agreement with sir. Steen Gade in that EU opponents automatically become smarter. I'm not sure I think you have to fight for it. But that was an interesting angle on it. There have been various comments on over-implementation, and that is, of course, something that will be raised during the committee procedure. Sir. Thomas Danielsen asked whether we could not leave a list of where this directive is going to overimplement, and also the economic consequences in dollars and cents of this bill. I would, of course, like to overlook that, but I can also start the over-implementation debate now. I would say that there are a few points in the legislative proposal where we go further than the offshore directive says we have to do as a minimum. Because it is a minimum directive and it means that we are obliged to lay a certain bottom, but we have the right to introduce requirements that go further. We do so in a few areas, and I will of course overlook that, so that it can be appropriately included in the committee's proceedings. But I can tell you what that includes. That's what I'm talking about. The directive deals with oil and gas activities in the sea area, and we have also included the rules in on-shore activities, because this is equally important, for example. ensuring that right-holders have the capacity to dismantle end-of-life facilities on land as it is at sea. So there are some places where we have been based on the directive, and then there are places where we have done some additional things that we think are sensible. But, as I said, we're gonna miss it. The bill implements parts of the offshore safety directive. In addition to preventing major accidents, it also aims to ensure that there is money and expertise to clean up should there be an accident involving large-scale oil spills. The Directive requires the authority issuing an authorisation to look for oil and gas to assess the applicant's technical and financial capacity in detail. It is also something that the government has high regard for. In future, not only must a technical and financial assessment be made of an applicant for a new authorisation, but the assessment must also be carried out at each transition to a new stage or activity in the authorisation. It is all to ensure that the rightholder of authorisations has the necessary technical competence and has the necessary means at his disposal at all times. The directive also requires that the authority responsible for safety and the environment should not be part of the authority which regulates the economic side of the activities, including allowing the exploitation of the underground, and this principle of separation is a direct lesson from marine accidents, and most recently the Macondo accident mentioned here in the Gulf of Mexico. The requirements of the directive concern oil companies operating in the sea area, but we propose that the requirements of the directive also apply to landowners with activities on land, and the background is, of course, that the harmful effects of activities on land, for example. drilling and storage in the underground could be as serious as the harmful effects of activities at sea. It is also just as important that right-holders have the means to dismantle wasted installations on land as in the sea area, as I mentioned before. The North Sea has a number of ageing plants and the time at which production for these plants has to be stopped is approaching. It is therefore proposed that an application for approval of installations should be accompanied by a plan for the dismantling of the same installations and, in particular, in that plan. conclude how to ensure that funds for the implementation of the resolution plan are available so that it does not ultimately become taxpayers who are stuck on that bill. The draft law has some other amendments which do not concern the implementation of the offshore safety directive, for example. that, in future, there will be direct access in the underground law to require the activities of rightholders to be insured. So today it is inscribed in the permit itself. Another example is that the seller of shares in permits is subject to so-called subsidiary responsibility for the costs of dismantling installations. The aim is therefore, as has also been said from up here, that it will not be the other participants in a permit or ultimately taxpayers who will have to pay for the decommissioning of installations. There is also a proposal to introduce a provision on the obligation of companies to make contingency planning in the interests of the energy supply of society and to take the necessary measures to that end. Finally, in the future it will be possible to extend geothermal permits, as well as extending oil and gas permits, and we propose this because it makes sense to ensure optimum use of the underground, and also because as a rule it is aimed at as much parallelity as possible between the various permits for exploration and extraction of raw materials under the underground law. Again, I would like to thank you for the interest that Things have expressed today in the draft law and I look forward to continuing the discussions, including the announced discussion on over-implementation, in committee. With these comments, I would like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150923	Thank you, Minister. There is no one who wishes to make brief comments, and I shall therefore consider the debate as closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205150949	The debate is open. The first rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Kim Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205151009	Thank you, Madam President. After all, as has just been said, the next two issues are dealt with together, and in the case of the Faroe Islands, implementation and, in the case of Greenland, what we call the Capital Requirements Regulation, the CRR Regulation is abbreviated. It has been desired in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands to implement the respective legislations. The area of financial regulation in Greenland and the Faroe Islands is not a matter of concern. These legislative proposals then implement similar legislation in the two places that we in the Danish Parliament adopted a year ago with L 133 in February 2014. This is then a consequence of banking package VI, which deals with the consolidation of the financial sector, and the CRR regulation is also part of the CRD IV directive. So far as the quirky technicalities of this. In short, the comprehensive case complex, as is actually the case here, is to act on the lessons learned from the financial crisis. Financial institutions must be upholstered better; there must be stricter prudential requirements for credit institutions and for financial corporations. There are, among other things: requirements for the calculation method of the base capital, capital requirement; the number and composition of exposures, liquidity, leverage information, etc. are required. etc. In addition, uniform requirements are laid down for institutions that store money or securities for their customers. We are sure that it is very reasonable that such rules also apply in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. We can definitely agree with that. I should add here that we have the good rule that we will only adopt legislation and implement it in relation to Greenland once the Greenland Parliament and the Greenland Government have expressed their views. There have not yet been any detailed recommendations on the draft law, but it has nevertheless been hoped that we will deal first with the request here today. We'll do that. I have understood the procedure so that we carry out the three readings quite quickly in the case of the Faroes proposal, and then we wait more closely from Greenland when we are ready to go ahead and finalise the third reading of the implementation of the L 129 as far as Greenland is concerned. It's technology, I'm sure we'll find out. We agree with these two proposals. It is extremely reasonable that we should also operate according to the criteria that we have introduced here, in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and we are happy to give our full support to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205151349	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Left. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205151351	Since the Socialist Greenland and Faroes rapporteurs cannot be present today, I have to read out the rapporteur's speech: with the adoption of the two legislative proposals, L 128 and L 129, we are implementing the Capital Requirements Regulation for the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively. The Capital Requirements Regulation means that the rules on requirements for the financial sector in Greenland and the Faroe Islands are tightened in terms of capital requirements, liquidity and information requirements, so that the same requirements are made in Greenland and the Faroe Islands as in Denmark and the rest of the EU. When the financial crisis hit us back in 2008, the financial sector plunged the world into a long and deep economic crisis. Globally, the crisis has had serious real-economic consequences, with a high loss of wealth, a reduction in purchasing power and living standards and a high level of unemployment. Fortunately, we are again shaking our way out of the crisis at home. The government has implemented measures that gradually boost the Danish economy, so that we again see increasing employment, falling unemployment, improving competitiveness and optimism among consumers. And it's all gratifying. But the clues from the financial crisis are frightening. The cost of the financial crisis has shown us that there is a need for regulation of the financial sector. There is a need to tighten the reins of the financial sector so that the financial markets cannot throw down a welfare society and send thousands into unemployment. Therefore, with the Capital Requirements Regulation, together with the rest of the EU countries, we are imposing stricter requirements on credit institutions and investment companies. This means, firstly, that basic capital and capital requirements are tightened up so that credit institutions and investment firms are stronger in relation to the risks they have assumed. Secondly, this means that the requirements for disclosure of the largest exposures of credit institutions are being significantly tightened. Thirdly, this means tightening up what can be included in the cash inventory. Finally, fourthly, this means that we are tightening up the reporting and disclosure requirements. The regulation therefore strengthens the regulation, supervision and risk management of credit institutions and investment companies so that we can reduce the risk of a new financial collapse. And as a member of the European Union, the Capital Requirements Regulation applies, of course, directly in Denmark. As you know, Greenland and the Faroe Islands are not members of the EU, and the Capital Requirements Regulation must therefore be adopted by law in Denmark in order to be put into effect in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. This is what we do with these two legislative proposals, so there are the same rules on regulation and supervision of credit institutions and investment companies in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland as there are in Denmark. With these comments, I can therefore say that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205151637	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205151647	As other rapporteurs have mentioned before me, this is two legislative proposals which help to cement once again that we in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands are absolutely convinced that the best thing is to have a great commitment to creating confidence in the financial sector. It is also true, as others have said before me, that with the legislative proposals that are being implemented here, as has been the case with the various bank packages and other measures, there are a number of incentives that help to create confidence in the way in which we manage capital management and funds in general in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It applies to liquidity requirements, supervision, how the assets are managed and how the trusted funds are placed and managed. These are all very fundamental and important things, and that is also why we have also implemented that part of the Capital Requirements Regulation in Denmark, and also something that the Danish People's Party has supported. That is why we are of course also of the opinion that this is for the benefit, joy and favor of both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and we can of course also support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205151756	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205151813	Thank you for the floor. This proposal for a law for both the Faroe Islands and Greenland on capital requirements and supervisory requirements for credit institutions and investment companies has been somewhat back and forth, in relation to whether it could be law-treated here in the Danish Parliament before the draft laws were discussed in the Lattinget and Inatsisartut respectively. However, since the financial regulation in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands is Danish responsibility and both the Lagtinget and Inatsisartut have agreed to it, it should be in place now that the first reading can take place. The aim of the Act is to implement the Capital Requirements Regulation, also known as the CRR Regulation, in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, thereby ensuring that the same rules apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland as apply in Denmark under the Regulation. In general, we would like to ensure stability among financial actors and security for investors and depositors, which is why the Radical Left supports this proposal. Indeed, the Capital Requirements Regulation provides for prudential requirements for institutions specifically related to banking and financial services markets. As I said, the aim is to ensure financial stability of market players and to ensure a high level of protection for investors and depositors. The Regulation lays down uniform financial requirements for institutions holding money or securities belonging to their customers. By implementing the provisions of the regulation, the law lays down inter alia: new rules on capital requirements, large exposures, liquidity, disclosure requirements, etc. The aim is that Greenland and the Faroe Islands can be assessed as equivalent third countries, so that credit institutions in Europe or in the EU, including Denmark, can treat loans to Greenland and the Faroe Islands in a similar way as they do today. Today, we are dealing with the legislative proposals first, but then await both the treatment of the Lagtinget and the Inatsisartut before the legislative process can continue. The proposals are submitted in consultation in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, with the rapid entry into force of Royal Decrees, and the Radical Left therefore agrees with the legislative proposals L 128 and L 129. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205152029	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Rubinke of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205152039	Thank you very much. I, too, have been thinking, and we have thought that there was a bit of turbulence about whether we should deal first with these two proposals today. But we agree that we are dealing first with L 128 and L 129 today. These are two draft laws which, for Greenland and the Faroe Islands respectively, contain a large number of technical substances relating to capital requirements and the prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms in order to implement the Capital Requirements Regulation, the CRR Regulation, which already applies in Denmark and which will then apply by law in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. Similarly, the draft law implements the Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. That is sensible in terms of content, we think, and as mentioned in the comments on the draft law, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark are practically in union with each other in the financial field. That is why we also think it is important that financial stability and, above all, confidence in the Greenlandic and Faroese banks should be ensured on an equal footing with Danish banks. A good and stable balance in the financial sector is a crucial factor for confidence in the economy, also for the Greenlandic and Faroese financial sectors to be competitive and to continue to finance the capital needs of both companies and individuals. Here, of course, we think of competitive both in relation to the Danish financial market, but to a particular extent also in the international markets. Competition in the financial markets has certainly not diminished, and we believe it is an obligation to ensure that the financial sectors have a framework and conditions that enable them to meet international requirements and conditions of competition. We can, among other things. secure by implementing the EU rules here also in the Greenlandic and Faroese financial sectors. Moreover, greater transparency and clarity are also of great benefit to both depositors and investors. That is how far I think many agree with the addition, of course, that both laws must ensure that they are adapted to the particular circumstances and the own structure of the authorities that exist in Greenland and the Faroe Islands respectively. To a large extent, the legislative proposals give the Minister the power to initiate regulation under the CRR Regulation in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. The comments indicate that this should be done with the involvement of Greenlandic and Faroese authorities. It should be pointed out that in the SF we preferred to see that the Latting and Inatsisartut had had the opportunity to deal with the proposals first. As the Prime Minister so beautifully stated in his statement on the Kingdom Community last year: A modern kingdom is an equal community. The Community idea is a pillar of the SF, so we are very much in agreement with that, and it is precisely for this reason that it is a pity to see that a first reading has actually been chosen in the Folketing here before the proposals are dealt with in the other two parliaments. So let us work to ensure that the Kingdom community remains an equal community in which there is no political inequality within the Kingdom community. We recommend that we also address this issue in committee reading of the proposals, on the one hand to ensure that the remaining process of L 128 and L 129 takes place on optimal terms in relation to the parliamentary assemblies in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and, on the other hand, to ensure that the process we have had up to these two proposals does not repeat itself. We have noted that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands have expressed their agreement that we are dealing with these two proposals here today, and that is why, of course, we in the SF are also taking part in the discussion of the proposals with the criticism I have just made. We regard the proposals as fundamentally positive and significant for Greenland and the Faroe Islands. So far, there is no other reason for the hearings. Having said that, I should like to say that we are looking forward to the committee procedure and good cooperation with both Lating and Inatsisartut.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205152446	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205152458	Thank you. I also have to start with a criticism of the government, which obviously will not respect the wish that we have made many, many times in the Greenland Committee and in the Faroes Committee, namely that we do not have the first reading of legislative proposals relating to the two countries until we know the position of the parliaments concerned. It is, of course, a perfectly natural thing that they should have, if you may say so, the right of first instance or served when it comes to the recommendation for legislative proposals which concern them and which can only enter into force, provided that they are adopted in the parliaments of the two countries. But the government is showing up, and I have to complain about that because we have had the discussion many times, and it seems to me that the government is not holding on to the committees because it is obviously the only way the government can learn to do so. We've lifted the index finger many times, and apparently it's bouncing off. It is, of course, about respect for the right to self-determination of Latting and Inatsisartut on these points, but it is also about respect for the work of the Danish Parliament. It must of course be the case, when dealing with legislative proposals relating to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, that it is a very important part of the position that we know the attitude of the parliaments of the two countries, because we will all, as far as we can at all in relation to our own party's starting point and basis, follow those positions very much. As the situation now stands, we do not know whether this could happen, that there will be a majority against in one of the two parliaments or in both of them we do not know. We have to say that that opportunity is there, and then it is a waste of time, to put it mildly, that we are then dealing first with something without knowing those opinions. Moreover, the government is obviously in agreement that we should not go to the third reading until the matter has been dealt with in the two parliaments. What, then, would the problem be in postponing the first reading here in the Folketing until we know the position? Apparently, it's no longer a matter of urgency. Apart from that, I do not have the impression that this is at all a discussion in the two countries. So, I would like to put a small question as to whether the wish really comes from the Faroe Islands and Greenland that this legislation should be introduced. It's possible it does. I have the most impression that this is about the fact that it is very important for the government to include the Faroe Islands and Greenland in EU rules in this area. That is fair enough, and there are also some arguments in favour of this in terms of content, so it is not, of course, because I understand the position you have. We can discuss it and disagree with it or agree with it. I just think that there are no factual reasons why we did not want to listen to the spontaneous statements from the committee. As a result of my position on the procedure, I do not intend to report on what the Enhedslisten will vote on the two proposals. Of course, we will be able to give it when we know the position of the two parliaments. However, I would like to comment on the content. There are some stricter requirements for banks in terms of capital and supervision, and the other rapporteurs have explained them well enough. There are two major problems with these legislative proposals and with the whole of the legislation behind them, and I am very excited to hear the attitude of the Faroese and Greenlanders on this. The first is that the relevant EU legislation will be implemented by the Minister by means of regulations, just as royal regulations will abolish the old rules, which will become superfluous. This means that in future, once it has been adopted, the Greenlandic and Faroese Parliament will have no influence on the implementing rules. They get them for review, but they have no control, they have no right of veto. The second is the very principle of these legislative proposals, which, as I said, are improvements, yes, but there is also the condition that, if you have signed this first, you will not be able to make more far-reaching demands than the EU rules, the regulation and the directives that are behind it. And that is not satisfactory, because it could be thought that in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland there was a desire to make more far-reaching demands on the banks' holdings of capital, liquidity, supervision, etc. than there are in these rules. Unfortunately, you are cut off from that option unless you can convince 27 EU countries or 28, because you also have to convince the Danish government that the rules need to be changed. There we have similar experiences with how easy it is. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205152946	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205152955	Thank you. Of course, the Liberal Alliance does not object to their having to observe the same care in Greenland and the Faroe Islands in relation to the requirements of financial institutions as they do in the European Union. When faced with the same demands, there will also be a basis for better conditions, so it is common sense to include the EU legal framework in this particular legislation, although this will probably lead to a number of constraints in the way of determining own funds, not least what can be characterised as core hybrid capital. It's a key concept in these cases. It will, of course, hurt and impose some restrictions on today, but I am convinced that in the longer term it will be very important that we do not operate with an A and B team when it comes to credit rules, although they may seem very comprehensive. We find it difficult to see a sensible alternative to these legislative proposals and, in these words, can support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205153105	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205153113	After all, the idea of the Capital Requirements Regulation is to ensure a level playing field, equal protection, in all countries included in the regulation. It is the same when we talk about CRD IV, and that is why, of course, it should also be the case if the Faroe Islands and Greenland want to be included in the regulation and the whole directive. This means that you have to go through a process here in the Danish Parliament, while there is also a process both in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We can support the government's two legislative proposals here, which we think are quite reasonable and will benefit both consumer protection and the protection of financial institutions throughout the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205153202	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Johan Lund Olsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205153222	Thank you, President. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we believe that it is the other way around: that we are today first dealing with a law on Greenland which has not yet been dealt with in Inatsisartut, Greenland's own parliament. The reason why we stand here and deal first with the proposal for a law for Greenland on capital requirements and prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment companies before it has happened in Greenland is that the government and the Naalaksuisut have agreed on a parallel treatment, because the autonomy and government have a particular interest in the implementation of the bill as soon as possible, as this implies the necessary updating and harmonisation of the rules in the financial field for Greenland for the benefit of Greenland's financial institutions, investors and customers. On the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits, we would like to stress the importance of the third reading of the bill in the Folketing only when the final statements of the self-government are made. This is very important. The third reading in this Chamber will therefore only take place after the proposal has been finalised in Greenland in Inatsisartut at the forthcoming spring session. It is not until March that spring assembly in Greenland, i.e. About a month. Then I would like to add my voice to that of Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Finn Sørensen mentioned the danger of a framework law. The danger of a framework law is, of course, that a given minister will be given the freedom to legislate through regulations. That is what we hope we will be aware of, including in the debate in Greenland, in other words that a framework law can give a given minister the freedom to legislate through regulations, that is. I would like to make it clear to the House that it is not a question of a parliamentary process and that it is not a question of parliamentary control. That's what I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen: I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205153442	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Nick Nielsen from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205153503	Thank you. I can inform you that I have been in contact with the relevant Ministry of the Greenland Government regarding this bill and the question of its presentation here in the Danish Parliament before it has been dealt with in the Greenland Parliament, Inatsisartut. Against this background, I can state the following: the present draft law is intended to apply the same rules to Greenland as in Denmark in this area, adapted to the Greenlandic situation. The implementation of the rules of this law has an impact on the ability of self-employed companies to obtain financing under the same conditions as in the past. In short, the failure to implement the European regulation of credit institutions and investment firms will mean that Greenland will be regarded as a third country in terms of the European banking sector. This will have the consequence that loans to self-owned companies will increase the capital requirements of European lenders corresponding to loans to third-country state companies and thus could involve a higher interest rate. The draft law on capital requirements and prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms is therefore now being presented to the Folketing with the full support of the Greenland Government, I presume. The bill must, of course, be forwarded to Greenland's self-government for opinion before the bill is forwarded to the Folketing for final adoption. This means that the first reading can be completed now, but it is a prerequisite that the third reading awaits the final reading of the proposal by the Greenland Parliament, Mr Inatsisartuts, this spring. That is also what Johan Lund Olsen said in his speech. The Ministry of Industry and Growth is aware of this condition, according to the memo received by all the rapporteurs. I am therefore in agreement with the presentation of the proposal on these grounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205153742	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205153754	Trust is the key word in the financial world. The confidence of customers and investors, but also of authorities and the general public, is probably the most important thing for any financial institution. And with Bill L 128, trust in the Faroe Islands banks must be further strengthened. The Samband Party shares the view that this draft law is extremely important for Faroese society. Strengthening the regulation, supervision and risk management of financial institutions is, in fact, something as fundamental and important as putting the ordinary Faroese saver at the centre. Quite ordinary people with savings in a Faroese bank or savings bank must be protected from any bank collapse as well as possible. The legislation is not only about imposing additional requirements on banks for upholstery, prudence and accountability; it is also about winding up failing banks in a way that affects customers and thus the Faroese community as little as possible. This is very important. It is precisely the smooth settlement mechanism that we remember from 2010, when the Faroe Islands' largest bank, Eik Bank, was placed under administration. Although investors unfortunately had to wave goodbye to risk capital, which they had put on high ground, ordinary people did not lose a single penny of their savings. The security came from the well-known bank packages, which, by virtue of the Kingdom and the common financial area, de facto prevented the emergence of Icelandic-style conditions in the Faroe Islands. Without the bank packages, Eik Bank would have gone down and the Faroe Islands' economy would probably have gone the same way. Therefore, experience from 2010 suggests that this law will be of great benefit to ordinary people in the Faroe Islands. It is absolutely essential that we in the Kingdom Community maintain and strengthen the common financial area, and we do so with this law. Customised Faroese conditions we will have the same rules as in the rest of the kingdom: the Faroe Islands will follow international standards; trust in the banks will be ensured; access to capital and liquidity will be ensured on competitive terms; borrowers will be guaranteed all other equally competitive loans; and, last but not least, stability and calm about the relatively small and vulnerable financial market of the Faroe Islands and the open economy. That's the way it's supposed to be, trust is the key word. Finally, a question to the Minister. The SIFI banks are covered by L 128. The introduction to the proposal states that in the next few years alone 20 such proposals will be made for the Faroe Islands. I would like to know whether L 128 is the final legislation to secure the SIFI banks or whether there will be further legislation on the SIFI banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205154239	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next speaker is the Minister for Business and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205154252	Thank you for your support for the two proposals. I can start by telling you that I was visiting the Faroe Islands in the autumn, where I had the opportunity, among other things, to visit the Faroe Islands. talk to the Faroese Minister for Finance about the whole of financial legislation. When we proposed to him that the regulations and other regulations adopted in the European Union should first be converted into legislative proposals and that it was procedures that could take several years, he was actually very sad and asked if we could do it a little faster. For it is important for the Faroe Islands and for the Faroese banks that there is the stability, which is also emphasised here most recently by Edmund Joensen. So the appeal was, couldn't you do it a little faster and a little more flexible than you usually do? So we went home and worked on that, and that's why there's this legal procedure. I met with the Greenland Trade Minister only yesterday, who also, as confirmed by Nick Nielsen, is fully in agreement with this rapid and very flexible treatment and with the fact that it is fully in line with and agreed with the government in Greenland and the Faroe Islands respectively. Therefore, we have only been and tried to be helpful in precisely ensuring stability and ensuring that we do it best in relation to the financial sector in the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively. If it were to turn out that the Faroese or Greenlandic Parliament had to deal with the matter and reject it, it would not, of course, be introduced. It's very simple. This is something we do on our own because we've been asked to do so. So that is the commitment from here and that is why, of course, we are also waiting for the third reading. But it is by no means an indication that we have wanted to run some over the fact that we have tabled the proposal here without there having been first readings in the parliaments concerned. This has happened after close agreement, because there is little speed at stake here in relation to the whole financial sector, because otherwise we would have problems with large parts of the market and others not being able to understand why part of the Kingdom community does not have the same rules as others. That is why it has always been a question of trying to promote the matter in the best possible way. So to all those who have supported, I would like to thank you for that. Of course, we wait for the debate and we also fully respect if there are questions or anything else. We are only here to help with this, but of course we fully respect that we have to wait for the final treatment in the Faroe Islands and Greenland before we have a third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205154618	Thank you, Minister. No one wanted to speak, and the debate is closed. I propose that L 128 be referred to the Faroe Islands Committee and that L 129 be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205154646	The first speaker is rapporteur Kim Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205154713	The proposal we are now considering, L 119, is called in the day-to-day electricity safety law. What is desired by this draft law from the Minister of Industry is overall to internationalise, modernise and simplify the power flow rules. This must be done by increasing the application of international and European standards, by transforming the Technical Security Council into the Council for Electricity and Gas Safety, and the Council's tasks are focused on electricity and gas safety. This should also be done by updating the regulation so that it can accommodate future technological developments, by maintaining the current level of safety of electrical installations, installations and equipment, by registering existing public basic information and not publicly available information within the Security Board and, finally, by developing a digital reporting system for basic information on the performance of the business. This is all the result of the growth package of June last year, and so the aim is to internationalise and simplify the strong current rules in order to reduce the number of Danish special rules, increase competition in the electricity installation market and thereby directly refer to European and international standards and always ensure up-to-date rules. The reporting system will ensure a more proportionate and effective control and risk assessment. Companies may choose to carry out the work in accordance with the applicable European or international standard or in any other way that meets the safety requirements of the law. Business market access, competition and productivity will thus be improved and, according to economic theory, customers' costs will have to fall and thus be reduced; this will thus contribute to increased competitiveness. That is good, and it is sensible, and it supports the Left. Now, of course, there is an incorporated set of rules in this area. It is typically small and medium-sized enterprises which handle these tasks and regulations, and we therefore attach great importance to the preparation of the details to be specified in the notice, in close cooperation between the new Council for Electricity and Gas Technical Safety, where the industry is represented, and then the Danish Security Agency and the Ministry. I have asked the Minister for Industry, and he has indicated that it will be, and that is why the answer I expect to receive here will be expressed in the report. It is also important that there is the necessary drive-in and therefore that there is close cooperation on when the individual elements of the notice are phased in, so that there is a reasonable time to prepare for for small businesses. Finally, it is also important for us that the information in relation to an international set of rules is available in Danish and that it is translated and accessible and understandable to small businesses, which must comply with the rules on a day-to-day basis. I am confident that this will be met, and I assume that this will be reflected in the answer to my questions put, and it will then be included in the report. And this will be a good legislative proposal and a good legal procedure, which we in the Left will fully support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205155148	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205155156	Last summer, the government concluded another growth agreement with a broad political majority. The agreement helps to pull the Danish economy out of the crisis so that some new jobs will be created. Today we have come so far that that part of the agreement with the Left and Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the SF to internationalise and simplify the power flow rules has become this bill on the Electricity Safety Act. The aim of the draft law is to simplify and internationalise the power supply rules in order to increase competition in the electricity installation market and to ensure regulation that can accommodate future technological developments while maintaining that electrical installations, electrical installations and electrical equipment have a level of safety that does not constitute a hazard to persons, livestock or buildings. Today there are many Danish special rules in this area, and we would like to do away with this because it will benefit the productivity and hence the competitiveness of Danish companies. In the future, companies will have to follow European and international standards instead of intricate Danish special rules. These are changes which will mean that structural GDP will be improved by approx. 100 million kr. in 2020. The increased flexibility for business means that, on the other hand, it will be necessary to have evidence that electricity installations meet safety requirements. Therefore, it has to be reported to the authorities. It is knowledge that is largely already available and therefore it is an affordable task for companies to report. Work on concrete documentation will be carried out in close cooperation with the actors in the field. The amendment of the law means that the work of the Technical Security Council must be brought together in a new Council for Electricity and Gas Technical Safety. The Council will be composed so that there is a broad knowledge of both technical safety and industrial relations. Of the consultation responses that have been received, we can see that there is overall support for the legislative changes. It is clear that it is in everyone's interest to strengthen the competitiveness of Danish companies. Some comment on the increased use of European and international standards. It will be among other things. stressed that it is important that the relevant standards are easily accessible and translated into Danish • and, of course, I fully agree with that. It is absolutely crucial that the new rules are easy to apply, and that is why I am also pleased to see that initiatives have already been launched to ensure that the new standards are disseminated. In short, the legislative proposal simplifies the rules, but we do not compromise on safety. The bill means increased productivity and competitiveness for the benefit of the whole of Denmark. The Socialists can, of course, support the proposal. And I am going to say on behalf of the Radical Left rapporteur that the Radical Left can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205155447	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205155456	As the Social Democrats' rapporteur said, it is, after all, a draft law based on a joint growth agreement concluded in 2014, where we in the Danish People's Party were also part of the agreement circle. The proposal for a law on electricity safety will, of course, be a law that will replace the current law on power currents, and it has among other things. The aim is to remove some of the Danish special rules • some rules that are special for Denmark compared to other countries with which we typically work together. If we pass this bill, it means that Danish companies will have better opportunities to compete with foreign players in larger project tasks also elsewhere in neighbouring countries, etc. All in all, it is a very positive bill, and of course the Danish People's Party is also happy to be part of the agreement. The only thing we may think it is important to examine is what we can see in some of the consultation answers that have been given, among other things. from the Employers and Techniques. They describe a concern that the draft law might have a negative impact on the level of safety. Techniques also require a purpose clause indicating the safety and hazard prevention aim. There, of course, I would like the Minister to comment on the wish that has come from Technique to establish such a clause. However, we believe that the draft law here is sensible and we also believe that it is largely positive. So, of course, we are also prepared to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205155646	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Steen Gade from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205155656	Thank you. The SF is part of the agreement that is the basis here, and the SF will also support the proposal. What I would like to stress here is that when you set up a system for a system that has been quite regulated and quite detailed and is also of great importance in terms of our having security and that this area has been under control it is a little important how we get it done when we go over and create a more internationally oriented system and a more simplified system. For me, this raises three of these very general issues. One is that when we create a greater freedom for how to deal with this in relation to standards and also to derogate from standards and to do so in a different way, the need to keep an eye on how it is actually done in reality becomes important. That's what the bill on documentation also contains, that you have to have the opportunity to see how companies then take advantage of this greater freedom. So we think that is a very important part of it. The second is that we had a system in the past, which provided considerable security for employees and companies, one might say. And in this sense, I would like to stress that the Council of Energy and Gas Safety, as it will now be called, also has employees' representatives on the Board of Directors. The latter is what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also highlighted, namely the question of the level of safety. It also gives reason for us to ask some questions along the way. Have we had it knitted together completely as it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20150205155918	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205155938	Thank you. I fully agree with Mr Seligman. Steen Gade's summary of three major issues raised by this bill. We in the Group of the European People's Party think this is a very good argument for not supporting this draft law, so I think that would have been the perfectly natural conclusion to Mr Gundelach. Steen Gade's excellent criticism. Safety in electrical installations and installations is important for all of us, both for those who install and perform the work, and for us who live every day surrounded by a myriad of electrical installations. Poor safety and malfunctions in installations can have major consequences in extreme cases fatal consequences resulting in loss of life. It is therefore also worrying that the whole focus of this change of law has been much more on competition and productivity, rather than on electricity and gas safety, as Dansk El-Forbund writes in their consultation response to the bill. That is also the basic reason why we, the Enhedslisten, cannot support the bill. With the law, the way we regulate security is fundamentally changed. From today's binding standards on how installations and installations are properly carried out, they will in future be indicative standards. Firstly, this means that electrical installations and installations can be carried out in many different ways, with the risk that safety is not in order. Secondly, it can even mean more bureaucracy when the specific method used has to be documented in detail. From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we can see a need to modernise the area, which is characterised by many different regulations and regulations. It may also be sensible to bring Danish rules more into line with European standards, but we believe that, in particular for electrical installations, there must be binding standards for carrying out the work. Perhaps you could also listen to the proposal from the Technical Security Council and from the employers' association TEKNIQ to have binding standards as a starting point and then possibly have a derogation if there is a need to derogate from the standard. It is important that we remember that there are often quite good safety reasons why we have introduced the Danish rules we have now. Some of them would also like to continue, but we do not have an answer on how, for example, we can do so. will regulate the solar area. I think it is a pity that the proposal to at least freeze the standards for some years at a time is rejected, so that, as an electrician or installer, you have an opportunity to get an overview of the recommended standard before it changes again. The draft law also provides for an amendment to the Technical Security Council, which is being converted into a Council for Electricity and Gas Safety. I would like, in line with several of the hearings, to call for an overview of what is happening to the areas for which the Security Council is no longer responsible. In addition, I think it is important that both workers and consumer representatives are represented in the Council. We will, of course, follow the committee procedure and should the incredible thing happen that the basic principles of the draft law are being completely changed, then we will be pleased about it. But otherwise, of course, we will try to influence the passage of the legislative proposal so that it can come into a little more agreement with what is our basic position, which, of course, leads us to the conclusion that we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205160315	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205160322	Thank you so much. The purpose of this bill is to modernise the Power Flow Act and to bring Danish rules into line with European and international standards without weakening safety. Such modernisation can help to strengthen competition and thus productivity, leading to higher prosperity and higher real wages for the Danes. This is a very good purpose, and we can support this bill. Some of the consultation responses express some concern as to whether the documentation requirements will be too extensive. It will be counterproductive, of course, given the overall purpose of the draft law, but we are hopeful that the Minister will be aware of this. We can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205160428	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205160433	The proposal is part of the growth package of last summer, which we in the Conservatives are also part of the agreement behind it, so of course we can support the idea and the proposal here because we have said yes to it in the past. We can do that when we see the entire content being rolled out. This will have as a consequence that we will have some more competition on the market, and it will have as a consequence that it will be easier and more manageable, and we will have modernised the whole of the very ingenious regulation that is in this whole area. I also think it is important to note what is being said, including in the hearings. Firstly, there is a concern that the changes here will go beyond security. There, of course, it is important and it is raison d'être for a bill of law when you change the whole regulation in the area that security is not being devalued. So that must be the first message from the conservative side. The second message is that there must also be a real simplification of the rules. It must therefore make life easier for the electrical installers and the industry, and it should not make it harder for those involved in electrical installations. That is why this means that clarity in relation to the many standards, regulations and legislation in this area is crucial. In the further process, it will also be our call for a high focus and priority to be given to both information and an overview of the rules. Then I think that we should also be aware of what is also stated in several of the consultation answers, namely that it takes time to implement complicated rules. It's a whole new set of rules. If you are going to start new projects, new construction etc., you are going to do so on the basis of the same rules that the electricians and installers have to follow when the work is to be done. And there can of course be some time, from the start, and until you reach the end when you are in the process of such a project, so it is also important that you take the time to get your way into the rules when they come into force and are implemented. Then, of course, it is important to make sure, because it is so complicated, and because it is so important that safety is top, that you do so in close interaction with the various players in the industry, both through dialogue, but also through this new council, which will focus on electricity and gas safety, and which is a change to the technical safety council. It is therefore important to listen to the objections and comments from the industry. However, we in the Conservatives can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205160723	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205160732	I should like to thank you for the very positive reception of the proposal. I think that this is a proposal which ought not to come up against a lot of ideology, but rather a lot of practice based on the thinking that the rules, the security regulations and other things that exist in Danish legislation, are all made from their time, from the technological and technical possibilities that were present at that time and from a national point of view. The fact that we have brought together so many different laws, regulations, rules and other things that at some point it might become a little burdensome is not so strange. But I guess it also calls for a little cleaning up and rationalizing. What we are then thinking of doing in connection with this proposal is to ensure that we do so on an international, European basis, so that we can also get Danish companies to benefit from being able to compete, so that they do not get into a lot of technical obstacles. All of this is done with a single starting point, and that is not to compromise security. This is absolutely crucial, and it goes back to all the points made in the proposal and in relation to the whole architecture of it. Therefore, there should not be a single question or a single concern about security that we should not answer and that we should not try to address if it is raised. Because it is not in any way intended to put it at risk. However, I think that the aim and purpose are actually quite real, and that is why I would like to thank all those who have spoken constructively, including with some concerns and questions from here in the Chair, which we will of course answer and work on in committee, which we look forward to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205160945	No one else has asked to speak, so thank you to the Minister. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150205161003	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 6 February 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
