ParlaMint-DK_20150218130000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children, Equality, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill no. L 138 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 139 (Proposal for a law amending the law on self-care homes, the law on general housing, etc., the law on social services and the law on individual housing aid. Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 75 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the permanent reduction of the salary of ministers). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130043	The first question is to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130053	The question is: what does the Minister think about examining the criteria for obtaining compensation for psychological injuries? depression and anxiety caused by e.g. stress, burnout, excessive workload and strain on work, or due to bullying, sexual harassment, violence or threats of violence on the job, so that more people can be compensated in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130117	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130119	Of course, it is not acceptable for people to get sick from going to work, and it is therefore also important that we constantly focus on preventing it from happening. However, it is also important to me that people who get sick from their work receive the help and compensation that they are, of course, entitled to. Our Danish occupational injury scheme is based on the basic principle that the employer is responsible for diseases that a worker receives because of the work. This, of course, presupposes safe proof that it is precisely the work that is responsible for the disease. The Occupational Disease Committee, which also has medical expertise, has on several occasions discussed depression or occupational stress, including stress. During the last discussion in September 2014, the Committee found no grounds for inclusion of depression in the inventory, as it was concluded that depression may have many causes and that it was impossible to determine the overall work load that could lead to the inclusion of the disease in the inventory. The Labour Injuries Board will therefore continue to recognise depression as an occupational disease only in specific cases following a recommendation from the Occupational Disease Committee. However, I am also informed that on 10 March the Committee on Occupational Diseases will be discussing a report from the so-called Modena project which has examined the risk of developing depression in the face of bullying at work. Once the discussions have been completed, the Labour Damage Board will publish whether the discussion of the report has led to changes in the inventory or practice in relation to recognition. There is therefore a continuous focus on using the latest research on causality or work-related stresses and mental illness, as the occupational injury system continues. I therefore believe that there is no basis for changing the criteria for the recognition of mental illness.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130306	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130307	It is, of course, very positive that a report has been drawn up which will then have to be discussed, and we can then hope that this will lead to an improvement. But I think it is very, very serious that it is the case that 95 per cent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work has not been approved by the Council. It should of course be borne in mind that the problems of the working environment in modern society have greatly increased in terms of the psychological working environment and, given the difficulties experienced by the sick person, with often very long periods, it is not reasonable that they do not have a better chance of receiving compensation. In this connection, I have thought that it is true that we are also using the criteria of the industrial society in the psychological field, and that is to say, as the Minister also mentioned, that there must be a guarantee that the disease can be attributed to work. But the question is whether that is fair. In other words, there is a specific case from the East Jutland area where a woman has been refused compensation precisely because of depression and anxiety, where it was then pointed out that there could also be things in her private life that burdened her. I think it is the case that almost whatever person is involved, you will always be able to find something in the person's private life, which also causes some kind of strain, and that means that they 95 per cent. are refused. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: could it not be worth considering that when it comes to psychological work injuries, the criterion could be introduced that it should be predominantly likely that the mental illness in question comes from the job?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130507	After all, it is not the case that psychological and occupational injuries are not discussed. Sir. Eigil Andersen and I had the late shift in the Danish Parliament yesterday, where we had a long and thorough discussion on this subject following a question debate, and we also start the guard in the Danish Parliament today by talking exactly again about the psychological work environment. I say that to point out that not only I, but also the Folketing, are preoccupied with this. However, I must insist that I think it is important that, if we are to have a system of occupational injury, which is also based in the future on the responsibility of the employer and where there is also the right to pay, there must also be clear criteria as to when an occupational injury is recognised and when an occupational injury is not recognised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130547	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130548	Yes, that is a very boring answer, because it is an answer that really means no to what I am doing here. Does the Minister not agree with me that if we are to be 100% sure that the psychological injury in question is due to the job, it will be very few people who will be compensated for it, because we will almost always be able to point out that the individual has some burdens in his private life? And I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130629-2	As to whether that means a 'no', I would say: yes, it does at this stage. But I just want to stress once again that we are focusing on this whole area. I mentioned in my reply that we have a major research project, which I actually understand is based at Bispebjerg Hospital, and where you will now deliver it, and it will be discussed in the Working Injury Committee, which will come back in March and look at: are there new ways to deal with this? I think that both the debate we have here today, but also the debate we had yesterday, actually shows that all parties in the Folketing are focusing on something as important as the psychological working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130709	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130711	However, a focus does not necessarily provide compensation and recognition of occupational injuries. I am going to look in a slightly different direction, but it is still missing on this subject, and it is about too few cases being submitted to the Committee on Occupational Diseases. In seven cases, HK complained that the cases in question were not submitted to the Occupational Disease Committee for a decision, and HK then took the application. As this happens, the Ankestyrelsen says that the cases should be referred back to the Labour Injuries Board again, as is stated in that language. As a result, in all seven cases, they are recognised and those HK members are compensated. Will the Minister do anything to ensure that there are more specific cases before the Committee on Occupational Diseases?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130758	I do not know the specific case of HK and cannot therefore comment on it. However, I would like to return to what I said in my initial reply, which was that on 10 March the Committee on Occupational Diseases will be discussing the report which I referred to earlier and which is called the Modena project. On the basis of this, you will come back and see if there are new criteria or new ways to look at this. Then I would like to point out once again that I believe that in just the last few days Parliament has shown that this is an area on which we want to focus our attention. For the 2020 targets we have on the psychological working environment and also on reducing loads by 20%. By 2020, there will be a firm commitment, even after yesterday's debate. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130843	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130851	I read out the question: what is the Minister's attitude to relaxing the rules so that the so-called early warning pool can offer continuing training to employees in a company that the employer has announced he will close, but where there is not yet a date on the closure and therefore not on the firing of employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130911	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218130913	First of all, I would like to say that I fully understand the situation in which the employees are at Danish Crown. They were warning layoffs and the closure was an accident to them and to the community. I also understand the intentions behind the question, but having said that, I think that we should also think about before any rules can be changed. It is, after all, a process which starts with the employer's announcement that a workplace must be closed down and ends with the employees in question holding a note in their hands, and there are a large number of circumstances which may affect whether or not the workplace ends up shutting down and how many, if any, are actually made redundant. In fact, if you choose to give early warning funds before the employees have been given notice of dismissal, there is a risk that they will not be targeted at those professional groups and people who will actually end up being laid off and without work. Fortunately, a number of employees can be said to be able to get into new jobs before the company formally announces a larger number of redundancies, and the company can choose to give notice to fewer employees dismissed than previously expected. Fortunately, we have also seen examples of this. In addition, it is possible that employers in this case Danish Crown even if they announce that they want to shut a company down in a particular city, nevertheless choose to continue production. You could hope for that. Unfortunately, it is not certain that this will happen. But we have also seen examples of this. The company can, for example. before the warning receive new orders. But we'll see about that. In addition, negotiations between employees and employers, which are to take place under the early warning rules, may lead to fewer redundancies than those proclaimed. There may be the possibility that some people will be employed in other parts of the group or who, as I said at the outset, will get other work. Finally, let us not forget that companies also have a responsibility to ensure that their employees receive the right help in the form of, for example. Upgrading and continuing training. In such a situation, with the proposed changes to the rules, you may risk that the company will be less inclined to provide help and support for the employees themselves. I do not think that either the questioner or I want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131122	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131123	That last one is correct. I certainly don't want that either. The minister questions whether Danish Crown in Faaborg has decided to close the company. I do not think it can be called into question that they have, and they have announced this very strongly, and it has not been withdrawn in any way. They will, as far as I understand, move production to England. But what is clear is that we have over 400 slaughterhouse workers in Faaborg, who have been in an incredibly squeezed. We must bear in mind that these slaughterhouse workers are very, very positive and constructive. They say to themselves: we need to get some further and further training going so that we can find jobs elsewhere. It could, for example, be done. be within the building and construction area, or perhaps it could be on drilling platforms in the North Sea where people are also needed, but there are not the right courses as it is now. And that is why it is incredibly good, and I think it should be very commended that the slaughterhouse workers in Faaborg are so forward-looking that they say to themselves: it's just about getting something done about this right now. Then I find it incredibly sad that the state signs for that positivity by saying, "No, our money box for continuing training in connection with such a business closure is slammed in." I don't think that's fair. And that is why I would say that a better model would, in my opinion, be that it was simply said that when a company has announced that it should close, it will also help employees with some continuing training. That is why I would again appeal to the Minister to agree to give a helping hand to the slaughterhouse workers in Faaborg. I think that is the only thing we, as a society, can be familiar with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131317	Now, under no circumstances should it appear that I am not concerned about the situation in Faaborg. Under no circumstances should it appear that I am not concerned about that situation. However, when I reply as Minister to a question concerning Faaborg, I also have to answer a little in general. Because I think the questioner and I agree that we are not making a law in relation to a single situation. So what I described before were situations that we could see elsewhere. And I've been afraid they might have closed in Faaborg. But that also makes me say that it is not the same as that nothing happens. In fact, a coordination group has been set up consisting of the job centres in Faaborg-Midtfyn, Odense and Svendborg municipalities, NNF and representatives of among others. Danish Crown. Information meetings and individual meetings have been held with the employees, and there is a job centre office in Danish Crown. So I fully agree that we should take this situation seriously, but what I just answered Mr. Eigil Andersen, was that if, before it turns into layoffs, you take too much action, then you can spend the money in a wrong and not a targeted way, and I don't think any of us are really interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131425	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131427	But I understand that the Minister is concerned, but the problem is that on the most important point, where the Minister could give a helping hand, the Minister will not give it. For this money from the state warning pool for further and further training is of enormous importance, and the slaughterhouse workers are very dissatisfied. And I can't see that it can in any way end up in something unfortunate. I can only see it as a good thing that you are being trained in time and that you thus get closer to a new job when you have been told by your employer that the company is closing down.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131507	But then it is that we are in where it will be a little difficult, because we are starting on a specific matter in which I, as Minister, naturally have to speak a little in general. I am just saying that history shows that there have been examples of mass redundancies which, for one reason or another, have become smaller, have not become anything, etc. And there's just what I'm saying is that we need to use the funds we have here sparingly and purposefully. I fully agree that upgrading is absolutely crucial for the employees we are talking about here. And we also have examples, including on Funen, that closures with proper, sensible and rapid action have meant that a great many employees have moved on. So I fully agree with the criteria put forward by the questioner here, but I am just trying to say that I have to start with the more general situation. And I'd like to spend the money wisely. There are a number of measures that have been put into effect in Faaborg, as I mentioned before, and we have the opportunities for continuing training and retraining when the warning pool is there • it is a very good thing • and we have to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131610	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131612	I agree with the Minister that, of course, a lex Faaborg cannot be made. It has to be a general rule change. However, I would like to say that I do not believe that employers are announcing in a row that they will close down their company if they do not want to do so. It is to the great detriment of a company and its reputation if you announce a closure and then change it. So I don't think that's gonna happen. That is why I have to say that I am infinitely sorry for the slaughter workers and I am sad that the Minister will not step in here with a helping hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131654	That is not what I am saying, that is, that employers are threatening to do this. Because if you take that step, it is because there is a serious situation for the company. I'm just saying that when you look back at this, you can see that it's been done in a lot of different ways, and I actually agree with you. Eigil Andersen and very happy that he says that we should not make a lex Faaborg, because it will benefit nothing. But this is not the same as not doing anything for the slaughterhouse workers who are in Faaborg. And there are two things we need to do: one is that it must already be taken care of now, and I have described this a little earlier in my answer that there actually remains, and the other is • and I am glad that we must have a society which, when things like this happen, has the means to help people move on. And then we even have what I'm happy about... lots of examples that it has actually helped really, very many people with the help that society gives in such unfortunate and unhappy situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131741	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. The next question is to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations by Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131755	Thank you. What will the Minister do to ensure the survival of the closure-threatening man crisis centres, and will the Minister work to put man crisis centres on the Finance Act, thus putting women's and men's crisis centres on an equal footing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218131808	Thank you for the questions. I'll try to set a frame in the first place. As you know, we have jointly set aside 10 million in the pool of rates. kr. to an application pool targeted the efforts of men in crisis. The application pool has just been published and organisations, including the existing man crisis centres, can now apply for support. With the pool and the criteria set, we ensure that the most suitable interventions for men in crisis receive support, and in this way we also provide for a process that is equal and fair for all applicants. Over the last nine years, the existing man crisis centres have received just over 60 million. kr. in aid from the rate pool. Since 2009 for the Men's Centre Foundation and 2010 for the other Man's Crisis Centres, we have been calling for the centres to anchor their efforts outside the community. During that period we have supported the centres with almost 35 million. kr. The demand that the centres should take responsibility for the anchoring of their efforts as well as the organization in financial terms has therefore been known for a very long time. Then we should also bear in mind that the women's crisis centres were set up in 2004 because it was considered that violence-stricken women and their children are often in an extremely vulnerable situation and that therefore it was not appropriate for them to stay with men. In addition, we must remember that women's crisis centres receive women who have been subjected to violence and threats. Men who, due to social problems, cannot be at home, including crisis and violence-stricken men, have the opportunity to stay on section 110 offers and are offered the support and care and subsequent help they need. It is therefore not a question of men not being able to receive assistance and support in the same way as women staying at a women's crisis centre. What matters to me is that men exposed to violence receive the help and support they need and that men in crisis can seek appropriate support and advice. That is also why, in the pool of rates, we all agreed to allocate funds in an application pool, just as we have set aside 19 million. kr. to an initiative on outpatient counselling and social interventions for men and women at risk of violence, as well as perpetrators of violence. Finally, the government's national action plan on violence in the family and in close relationships places particular emphasis on violence-stricken men through counselling, treatment and trials with housing offers. We are all interested in the right help being given to men and men exposed to violence in crisis, and with the many initiatives that have been launched, I think that we also have a good basis for developing these efforts. I think that together, of course, we should follow that very, very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132053	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132055	Thank you. Well, thank you for the historical outline of how it has gone with appropriations and so on, but the fact is that right now, when we are here today, we are in a situation where we hear that these men's crisis centres are in danger of actually closing down perhaps already one of the coming days, weeks and so on, and that is where I think I need some action. In connection with a statement made by the Minister about a year and a half ago in Kristeligt Dagblad, where it was actually said that some things would be done, that it was very important that it was a serious situation, that so many men were in a crisis, that 80%. of the homeless were men, and that of course we should act on it. And there is what I really want to hear from the Minister about how the Minister really feels about the way things have been done. Because it is quite true that we have set aside some funds of just under 10 million. kr. over a four-year period in the rate pool for men in crisis, etc., as there was broad agreement on · but the fact today is that we see that there are so many men who actually fall outside. And even though the Minister also says about women that they are in an extremely vulnerable situation and that that is why you have women's crisis centres and so on, well, these men are also in a very vulnerable situation. We know that these men are often some whom the wife is quite surprised to leave them. They are without housing; they are suffering from depression; they find it difficult to act as fathers of children who may be etc. There are so many derivatives. And there it is actually just that I would like the Minister to answer the question I have asked: when we consider that we have women's crisis centres, which are doing a fantastic job and which are in the Finance Act, could we not, in a way or in a way, anchor the men's crisis centres in the Finance Act, so that they are also secured in the years ahead? Because it is an unsustainable situation that we do not really know how and how to act. And, like so many other betting pools, we know that it is difficult to find that anchoring outside the pool of rates, as the Minister says it is planned. So I think that the Minister should go a little further in relation to future prospects in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132303	Well, quite specifically, when we negotiate finance law, all parties have the opportunity to intervene with the things they now want to play. I have rarely seen a Minister or anyone else in a section 20 question negotiating Finance Law, and so I have no intention of doing so, no doubt about it. That doesn't mean men can't get help. Men can. I was just trying to sketch out the history of my introductory speech and answer the question that I actually got about women's crisis centres versus men's crisis centres, and then of course also say that, in the situation where men are in a crisis, we have some action. However, according to service legislation, you also have the right to receive help when you turn to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132353	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132354	Well, it's also really nice that there are some options that are obviously just not enough with options. I have tried to find some figures: The first three quarters of 2014 there were 3.841 inquiries to the centres in Copenhagen and Aarhus. That's an alarmingly high number. Does this mean that the Minister will now guarantee that there is indeed room and that there is advice and everything else for the many people elsewhere than in the men's crisis centres? That was one part of it. The second is that out of these 3.841 inquiries, there were indeed 382 where men had been subjected to mental or physical violence. Isn't that thought-provoking too? Isn't it important that those places that actually have the expertise to handle and handle these things do it too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132438	However, Mrs Karin Nødgaard makes a premise that I do not want to help the various men I do in fact. And that is also why we jointly set aside money for men in crisis, and so we jointly established criteria for how we would translate the pot in the first quarter. We've done that now. One can seek, and we will do what we can, and we will endeavour to obtain answers as soon as possible, depending on who you are as an applicant. Having said that, I would like to point out once again that, of course, we must help the men who are in crisis. That is what they need, as the situation says, of course, but, as I said earlier, they have the right to do so, according to the service legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132525	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen who is a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132529	Thank you. I am so sorry that the Minister merely makes this reference to the fact that when you negotiate Finance Law, all parties have the opportunity to bring in a kick. So I just want to ask you very directly: does the government want men's crisis centres to be included in the budget law?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132553	As I, not surprisingly, replied to Mrs Karin Nødgaard, I shall respond in exactly the same way to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. That is why I am actually surprised that you can ask the same question once again and somewhere waste your shot at the fact that, when we are in this fantastic situation where we are facing each other and can ask each other about everything, I have to answer a question that Mrs Pia Adelsteen well knows what the answer is to, because it will be exactly the same answer as what I gave one minute and 15 seconds ago, namely that I am not standing here negotiating the Finance Act. But now, fortunately, you have another shot in the gay, maybe two, I can't quite remember that as a co-questioner, so now you can try it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132634	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen, last shot.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132636	Thank you. It's gonna be the last shot. That is actually the funny thing about standing down here in the Chamber, namely that you are expecting an answer. I see the answer as saying that the government has no desire to put men's crisis centres on the finance bill. It is possible that men are entitled to help via section 110 of the Service Act. However, men's crisis centres have an expertise and knowledge that has made it possible for a great many men to approach the men's crisis centres, as well as many women addressing the women's crisis centres. That is actually just why I am asking if it is also a request from the government. I'm not negotiating Finance Act. I think it's very rare, by the way, that I've negotiated Finance Act with the Minister for Gender Equality. So what I'm really just asking is: is it also a government request?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132720	Well, I'd recommend that you rewind the film a little bit. I got a question that went on whether I would put it on the Finance Act and I had to answer yes or no, and then what I was just referring in all its simplicity to is that I am not standing here negotiating the Finance Act. On the other hand, I should like to say quite clearly: of course, the question of men in crisis is of great concern to me. That is why, together with Mrs Pia Adelsteen's own party, we have also set aside funds for men in crisis. And the centres in question can look now, and I know that none of the centres are closed. They can search, and they can do so on an equal footing with anyone else. That's why we created this transparency, and that's exactly what I think is due diligence. I look forward very much to seeing the applications and I look forward to seeing who has received something financial.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132808	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132810	Anyway, this isn't about negotiating financial law. These are some visions of how we want to secure an area, and I think that is perfectly legitimate for us to take on the agenda here too. Can the Minister not say very briefly: is there a significant difference between men's crisis centres and women's crisis centres? Would it not be a fine signal to send out from a radical minister, Minister for Gender Equality, etc. that, of course, there is no difference? It may be that the things they put in the personal luggage are different, but they are people in crisis and they need to be helped. Then it might be that the Minister had a thought in relation to future financial law negotiations that it was something that should be prioritised. So it is actually quite peaceful to ask that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132852	I'm kind of happy about that. I am also pleased that Mrs Karin Nødgaard says that this is not about asking about the Finance Act. I would also just say that then you should not ask, because of course you will get the answer that I have given a number of times. But all of a sudden, I had a little substance. I had a little substance about women's crisis centres and men's crisis centres, because of course it is important that men receive the help they need. Of course it is. They get that in relation to the service legislation; they get it in relation to the initiatives that are; and so they get it in relation to the excellent pool agreement that I have just to say that we have made together and where you can actually apply out of this pool. And again, to just finish where we started: Me familiar nobody is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132939	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations by Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132951	How does the Minister feel about the loss of knowledge and experience at the closure of men's crisis centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218132958	I'm gonna need my papers. It is such a complete cascade of questions from members of the Danish People's Party who are down here. That's nice. In fact, I fully agree with Mrs Karin Nødgaard that the men's crisis centres actually possess relevant knowledge and, of course, also experience with regard to the group of men in crisis. It is therefore also my expectation that the centres, together with other organisations in the field, will use the knowledge and experience they possess in their possible applications for support from the pool that we have set aside in the pool for interventions targeted at men in crisis. When we placed the funds in the application pool, we agreed to make demands on the applications that the problems of the target group and the methods used in the effort are well described. In addition, applications must also set a clear target for what results users are expected to achieve as a result of their efforts. In this way, we support interventions based on knowledge of the needs of the target group and efforts that have documented positive effects for users. I recognise the knowledge and efforts of existing centres in this area over the past many years. And then I also think that with the pool we are ensuring continued development against ever better offers to men in crisis. Finally, let me say that the Ministry has not received any information that one or more of the existing man crisis centres are currently closed, as I also said in the previous question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133139	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133140	To the end, I would say: no, they are not closed, but they are closed. And there is an alarm bell that must ring, also for a minister, in that we may risk that the knowledge that these centres have built up that is absolutely fantastic in this area in relation to the men who are in crisis and have some other crisis positions than women experience and which they have specialized in just suddenly being lost. In the Committee on Social Affairs we have had visits from those we have had an ongoing dialogue with them. They're at lockdown. They are in a situation right now where they do not actually know what to do, either in relation to staff or to the men who are addressing them. There it is just that I think it would be an obvious opportunity for both a Minister for Social Affairs and a Minister for Gender Equality to go in and say: here we have something to look at, and here I will take the lead, including in the government, and say: we have to help these people. We must help them so that it is not lost, so that in a few years' time we may be able to build a completely new and actually similar system, because we just do not have that expertise anymore because it has been lost. That is where I think it would be obvious that the Minister should come into play. They're not closed yet. But I would also like to hear from the Minister: what dialogue has the Minister really had with them over his years as Minister, both as Minister for Gender Equality and as Minister for Social Affairs, over the last few years? What dialogue has there been? Has the minister been out to see what they are doing, visited them, experienced something, talked to some of the men who have actually been rescued, excuse me, I say it from the gutter, from homelessness because they have been through that system? Because it is actually said that they do not have anyone who ends up homeless after being through the system. It would be nice if the Minister could say: well, I have had an ongoing dialogue. I know everything about this area. So the Minister can do that. Finally, I should like to say that I mentioned some figures in my first question, in relation to how many people are actually addressing themselves. 3.841 had approached in the first three quarters of 2014. Would the Minister please comment on that figure?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133345	I do not think I can comment on everything, but I shall certainly try, there is no doubt about that. As to whether they are closed or not, I would say that there is of course a great deal of concern for almost all the projects that I know about in Denmark. And yes, I've been out visiting them at Christianshavn. That does not mean that I do not care about them in any way whatsoever. That does not mean that I do not know the area, because I do so much. This does not mean that the people who come and need help do not get help. As I answered a previous question, I am very concerned about it. Otherwise, we would not have obtained a joint agreement under last year's rate pool agreement, which will apply from 2015, precisely on men in crisis. And that's what we've got. Then I just want to say again in all silence: it applies to the men's crisis centres, as it does to other offers, that of course you also have a responsibility yourself. So has the board. And I must also say that in the last nine years they have received 60 million. kr. and they have been made aware of how things, as I also said earlier, are going to change. Of course, that responsibility must be assumed. We take it on with our pools, but you also have a responsibility yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133454	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133456	Oh, quite peacefully it wasn't, Minister. Nevertheless, I think the Minister spoke up a little, and I think that is only positive. We know that the rate pool is vulnerable, and the Minister knows very well that the Danish People's Party has several times taken the debate in Parliament about the rate pool, because we simply believe that it is so vulnerable in terms of securing the most vulnerable citizens in Denmark. And here there is a group in which, although the Minister says that work has had to be done to find fixed funding, fixed operating aid and so on, it is just difficult. It's just that it would be obvious that you went in and looked at it. The minister did not have time to comment on the figures on the many inquiries. I think it is thought-provoking as a citizen of Denmark that there are so many men who turn to us and that we can actually risk suddenly not getting any support or any help. That was one part of it. The second is, when we are talking about new allocation rules, also in connection with the rate pool: is it so that we can be sure that we will also be able to see in the future that this area will be secured? For we, as an opposition party, are more or less sidelined to that, one might say. It would be nice if the Minister were to say now: of course we have this under control. After all, it was the Danish People's Party that actually wanted to get something in this area, and as I said, it was only nearly 10 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133614	There are two things: one is the figures and the other is the award criteria. It is the case that we have changed the award criteria so that we do not both contribute to the allocation of the money and then give money in another room with the other hand. As the DA has pointed out, that is also a matter of course. That is why we have changed it, and I fully agree with that. Because, and I'm not talking about this case, now I'm just talking in general, because it could be that some people listened and wondered about it. It's a bad thing to have to give to the people that you know or you know about etc. This is creating equal and fair conditions for everyone and creating more transparency. Having said that, I think that the figures, the 3,000, are really interesting. Because it is true that there has been a sharp increase and I promise that I will reply to those figures in a moment, because the President has now risen and I shall sit down. But I will answer them, because these are some figures which are also deadly relevant to many of the other things we do, for example. the divorce package that we have made both a 1 and a 2 of, and also for what we have to do in the future. Because we can see that with regard to divorce cases something is happening at the moment, where there are a great many conflicts, and I look forward to answering that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133726	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen who is a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133728	It is both good and bad to be a co-questioner when you are having a good debate. Just very briefly in relation to this knowledge and experience that there are at these man crisis centers, and which is like the starting point for the question: Is there a guarantee for the pool now that these men crisis centers are actually getting money from the pool? And that's a tricky question, I might as well admit, because normally you have pools open to all applicants. But it's important and important in relation to these very men's crisis centres and this very knowledge and experience that is out there so that they don't close. Because it is true, as the Minister says, that they are not closed yet. No, but they're locked up, so that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133814	No, it's not really a tricky question. It's a very simple question. Because if I stand here and promise to give certain people certain amounts of money, it is against all administrative behavior. I remember we had a case a while ago... 11⁄2 years ago... I guess it's now where a former minister promised 1 million. kr. You can't do that! And that's what you've learned from. Back to the 3,000 which I think is really interesting and that was a very clear answer to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. I think it is very interesting and therefore I would very much like to extend my hand to Mrs Karin Nødgaard again and say, as I usually do when faced with some common problems: I would very much like to look at this issue and also with the question of why there is an increase. Why do we see an increase that we have made, for example? In the state administration, too? It has also formed the basis for many of the actions we have taken, for example. on high-level conflict cases and so on. If there is a connection with many of the cases here, I am willing to look at it, because what is characteristic somewhere, I think, is the work we do in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, is that we want to do the same. We would like to extend our hand both to the women's crisis centres and to the men's crisis centres. We would like to do something for men in crisis and I also think that somewhere the actions we have taken, also with the 2015 rate pool illustrates that. Then you can discuss whether there is too little money or too much money in the pot. I would like to know that the two askers would like to see a lot more money somewhere. But we only have a sum of money, and we should try to distribute it as best we can, and I think we have done so. Now the pool is open, and now you can search, and then I hope people will be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218133958	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen, the final round of questioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134000	So I would just like to come back to the main issue here, because if you cannot guarantee money, which I am well aware of, of course, that the Minister cannot, how do we ensure with a pool that is being sought from the survival of the man crisis centres and the preservation of the knowledge and experience you have out there? For that is actually what we are passionate about: that of course they survive, that they exist, that is, that they can help men in crisis, precisely this large number, as Mrs Karin Nødgaard has also mentioned. How do we ensure that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134034	Again, I think we should remember that no one is closed. There is One should not take the sorrows in advance in any way whatsoever. And again, if someone closes, we will of course deal with that situation, but there is no such situation. We've canceled this pool, just like we agreed. The application criteria and deadlines and everything have been met, and then you have to apply. I can't wait to see who's looking for and who's getting paid. And then we must continue the dialogue with regard to the various centres and the whole problem, but nobody is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134118	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard to end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134122	Nobody said that. What the Danish People's Party wants to focus on are the closing-in places; that is what we are trying to do today. Now the Minister is telling us not to take our sorrows in advance. In fact, I do not think it matters that we are a little worried today, and it would also be fair if the Minister were perhaps also just a little worried. Because I actually don't think I can see any signals on that. In other words, we are running a lot on what has been granted and so on. Well, I'm worried about this area because we can see that so many men are in a vulnerable situation. And by having these men's crisis centres, by using the expertise that these places are, we can make sure that they do not actually end up out to the extremes of our social system. Could the Minister not think in that way the same idea as I do, in that it may actually end up being much more expensive in terms of social security, too, in addition to the personalities of the individual person, if it is really not being done now to ensure it, so that we know that the men who get through the system at man crisis centres are actually going to be doing quite well? I think that could be really, really important. Otherwise, of course, I would like to thank you for the debate and so on. We could have had a whole long debate on whether or not it is a bad thing in relation to the rate pool, but unfortunately we cannot achieve that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134232	No, unfortunately we cannot reach it today, but we have a conciliation meeting on exactly the same thing next week. And then I hope this cognitive therapy continues before I was a little angry, and now I'm not upset enough. I'll try to find the framework within which to act. Having said that, however, I would like to say that I also think it is a very good debate to take. And I would like to pursue this debate because it is a really important issue to deal with. I think, just like Mrs Karin Nødgaard, that it is interesting to look at those figures. Well, I don't know the numbers to the bottom, and we're gonna have to look at them together, but obviously there's a tendency that this very area of men in crisis, divorce, and what can be in this pool is something that's increasing at the moment. And that, of course, requires our attention, no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134330	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134343	Thank you. Will the Minister explain what he got from the meeting with the Autism Association, with which the Minister wanted to meet because of their request for parental orders and threats of forced removal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134355	Thank you. The Autism Association met with my officials from both the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations and also from the Ministry of Education on 16 December 2014. At the meeting, the Autism Association spoke among other things. on their experience of educational offers for children and young people with autism and the social efforts of the municipalities towards families with children with autism, the same issues that the association has also written about in a letter from 25 September 2014 to the questioner and which I have both commented on in my answer to question 577 to the Danish Parliament's Social Committee and my oral answer to question S 300 on 19 November 2014. At the meeting, as I have also said in my previous replies, it was stressed that municipalities have a clear duty to help all children in need of support. This also applies to children with autism. The aid and support provided must be aimed at helping the child. There must never be any question of the stakes being used as sanctions against children or parents. You may or can never use the bets as sanctions to resolve a professional disagreement about the offer to the child. Finally, it was also stated that parental instructions can only be given if it is the parents' unwillingness that is the problem. If, instead, there is an inability to deal with the child's problems, the municipality should help the parents do so. I think the rules are good as they are today. I therefore believe that there is no basis for new legislative measures. However, the meeting with the Autism Association has given rise to my wish to clarify the current guidance in this area, so that we ensure that neither municipalities nor parents are in doubt as to how the law should be understood. I expect a revised guide to be available as early as the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134554	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134556	Why is it that the Minister can stand here at a Question Time and, in such a way, say that he is attending a meeting with the Autism Association and can now say that it was the officials who met with the Autism Association? I now quote the Minister from an earlier question hour when the Minister says: 'You cannot ignore such a letter, and that is why it is of course also being discussed. As I said, I do not remember exactly, but I think it is 16 December that we have a meeting. Now the minister says that the minister simply attended that meeting with the Autism Association. And I am very surprised when the Minister says that he will not ignore such a letter that the Minister himself does not participate but sends his officials. You can't be familiar with that as a minister. I therefore believe that the Autism Association had expected the Minister to take part himself when the Minister in this Chamber says that he would like to meet with the National Association of Autism.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134704	Now I have three interns this week. They're actually sitting up in the gallery watching. And if I had the opportunity, I would actually like to take Mrs Karina Adsbøl's hand too, so that she could see how a ministry works, because when I say we do, it's the ministry. There's nothing awkward about the fact that the Ministry and the top officials meet on my behalf. There's nothing obnoxious about that. This is happening every day because the area has the size it has, because unfortunately I cannot meet with all the people I really wanted to meet. That's why they act on my behalf, of course. But I would certainly be worried if nothing came out of that meeting and if I did not know quite clearly what had been said at that meeting. And I would also be very concerned if the officials did not take my thoughts on it to the meeting. They have done so, and that is why I can also say, as I did just now, that there is nothing unpleasant about it. On the other hand, of course, I would also like to do so in addition to the fact that it did not give rise to a legal change, so that it would become much clearer. Now, that's logic, and you should be happy about that somewhere. And that's how we act every single day in the ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134818	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134819	In other words, when the minister is on television or elsewhere saying that he wants to meet with someone, you should not expect that it is the minister with whom you are allowed to meet, but that it is the official work with which you are meeting. Perhaps that was also what went wrong with the adult provisions of the Services Act in the draft law put forward by the Minister, namely that the Minister did not meet with the organisations and perhaps does not know what is going on in practice. When the minister stands down here and says that you are having a meeting with the Autism Association, then I strongly assume that the Minister will attend that meeting. Otherwise, I do not think there is any credibility in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134901	I think we should be very careful about this with credibility, because when I say I'm meeting someone, there's a difference between it and when I say we do. It's not a royal we, it's a we as in the ministry, and it happens every single day. Instead of nitty gritty about what we and not-we and I, I think it would suit Mrs Karina Adsbøl so much to try to look at what has actually been said at that meeting. That would be much, much more comfortable. And as I have said before, I see no reason whatsoever to make legislative changes. On the other hand, and I think you should stick to that and perhaps somewhere else, I would like to clarify the current guide. This is a positive result of a meeting from December 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134954	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218134958	I recognise that we would like to clarify the instructions. I certainly do. But when the Minister is standing down here and I sign the Minister in a Question Time that the Minister will now take a meeting with the National Association of Autism and then the Minister himself is not present, then I just don't think it is connected. Then the Minister could have said that it is not the Minister who is holding that meeting, but that it is the office. So I just think that the Minister should be a little clearer about it when the Minister signals that he wants to meet with the organisations and make it clear that the Minister does not attend those meetings himself, because then you will understand it. Then there may be many who avoid being disappointed with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135039	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135041	A lot of meetings are held every day, and there are plenty of organisations that are not disappointed. At least I haven't heard of anyone lately. It may be that there have been some times, but I certainly cannot remember it in any way whatsoever. I am actually very clear when I say that I will meet someone and also when I say that the house, i.e. that we/the Ministry of Social Affairs will meet some. There's nothing obnoxious about it. Every day officials meet with organizations, and they do that on my behalf. It is not possible for me to meet with all the organisations that are in our area. It is in the area of equality, it is in the area of children, it is in the social field, it is in the area of integration, and it also includes other religions. Every day you meet with officials. This government does, and I would just like to say in all its simplicity that the previous government did the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135140	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135149	Will the Minister explain what steps he will take to ensure the efforts and assistance of parents who have a child with a disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135206	Efforts towards families with children with disabilities are an area which we in the government give very high priority to. The question is, in fact, very wide-ranging and therefore my answer will also be very wide-ranging. The Government's visions in the field of disability are clear. We want an inclusive, diverse and equal Denmark, where there is room for and respect for diversity and where children with disabilities and their families have the same opportunities to exploit their potential and resources as all other citizens have. Parents of a child with disabilities are in a very difficult situation and undoubtedly face many different challenges in their daily lives. Therefore, it is important that parents get the best tools to deal with the challenges. It is for the sake of the parents, but of course also for the sake of the child, for the sake of the whole family and also for the sake of society. I am therefore also very pleased that we have already taken a great many initiatives to support those families in which there is a child with disabilities in the family. Specifically, via the 2014 rate pool, it has been agreed to allocate approx. 40 million kr. for a large project on mastering support for families with children with disabilities. The project aims to develop and disseminate parental training programmes and other mastery support for parents of children with disabilities. Overall, the project aims to strengthen family resources and opportunities. Also in the 2015 rate pool, the focus has been on families with children with disabilities. The agreement therefore provides for 16 million ECU. kr. The aim here is to reduce the needs of the target group for intervention and long-term efforts and to give children and young people and the family a better working life. I believe that some very important efforts have been made to support the parents of children with disabilities, as well as substantial funding for this area in connection with recent wage-pooling agreements. I look forward to seeing the results of these efforts; that is clear. Finally, I would also like to make it clear that the government will continue its focus on how we in society can best support children with disabilities and their parents, among others. in the rules for home training to be reviewed in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135432	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135433	Just in relation to home training, it may be that the Minister can elaborate on why the meeting we were supposed to have on it was cancelled. Because that is something that is so important to get answers to and get even better done. In my day-to-day career as a disability rapporteur I also get a lot of inquiries from parents who have a child with disabilities and who find it deeply problematic that there are so different levels of service around the various municipalities so that they can get help in one municipality, but they may not be able to get that in the municipality in which they live, and therefore some are even considering moving. That is why I am asking this question today, because I think that the Minister must explain what initiatives there are in this regard. There is one thing about the procedure, but there is also the principle of equality in relation to the procedure. What is the Minister going to do so that you do not have to be forced to move, that is, because you can get help in one municipality but not in another municipality? I also think it is important that the Minister tackles this issue, so that they can get a decision more quickly and be able to help their child more quickly. I've heard of cases with kids who can't get their leg braces so they can learn to walk, and other things that take up to several years. And that can, you might say, reduce their disability if they do not get the help they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135614	Thank you. Of course, I cannot relate to individual cases, as the questioner knows very well, but what I can relate to, and which is also very, very relevant, I think, is the whole challenge of the Ankestyrelsen and the processing times. For the last 11⁄2 years, we have been focusing on and turbo at exactly the processing times of the Ankestyrelsen, and fortunately they have been brought down with great strength and are being brought down even more. I also know that the questioner himself has been aware of this, as we have been in consultation on it and so on. It is not satisfactory that there have been such long processing times, but I just think it should be noted that the Ankestyrelsen uses more resources, uses more employees and actually brings down the processing time. For example: They also had last summer reduced the whole big hump of old stuff. So fortunately, things are going the right way. But I fully agree: it has not been satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135714	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135716	No, it hasn't. When you think that it is parents and children who really need help, it is, of course, under all criticism. And since we are talking about the duration of the proceedings in the Ankestyrelsen, that is how it is compared to what you estimate the deadlines based on taking the average from a case is closed. So even if it has been sent back to the municipality, you don't take the whole time perspective with you, and that's why a case can last, yes, for several years and I find that very problematic. You take the case back and the municipality will have to re-examine it. But something else is in relation to the disability policy action plan and to the disability policy think tank: I simply lack some clearer initiatives. It has been put on the agenda, but I think that there is a lack of action that has yet to be followed up on how it works in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135812	Unlike the last half hour, when I was fully aware of what the questions were about, I find it difficult to understand the question in this context. But I can then go back to the previous question, because there was something I did not answer, precisely what Mrs Adsbøl has just said, namely home training and so on. The SFI evaluated and their evaluation came in December, and I can of course tell you that the rules, as the questioner well knows, will have to be revised in the next session. That is why, in the coming months too, I would like to invite you to discussions and also to negotiations on the basis of precisely the home training scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135900	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135902	Yes, but in relation to home training, we've been invited, but the meeting was canceled. So we have to assume that there will be an invitation soon and not in several months' time, as the Minister said. At least I expect that to happen. However, in relation to the wide differences in procedures around the municipalities and the different levels of service, I would like to ask: is this a topic on which the Minister will continue to work to ensure that citizens around the country's municipalities are given a more uniform effort and should not feel compelled to move to a municipality where they might be better able to get help? What I find weird is if there are 98 municipalities which interpret the Services Act very differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218135950	It is sad if there are citizens who have to move. However, we do have a level, we have a service legislation, and then it is absolutely right that we have 98 municipalities and that their level of service can be very different in many different areas. It's not just in this area; it's also in kindergartens, crèches and schools. It is, of course, the municipal autonomy that we have and, as the questioner very well knows, I pay tribute very, very much. This does not mean that I think it is in any way positive that people get caught. Well, of course they shouldn't. And here, of course, I am also thinking of the proceedings of the Ankestyrelsen. We're doing everything we can to bring them down. There will soon be an invitation to a meeting on the home training scheme. And finally, I would like to say that this is an area that really, really means a lot to the government, but I know that it is also for the author's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140047	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Conditions by Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140057	Thank you for the floor and the question is: what is the reason why the government, on the one hand, claims to want to tighten the refugee and integration policy and, on the other hand, claims that refugees coming to the country are from day one turned into immigrants with a large and expensive integration process?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140118	Thank you again for the question. I take the view that the question raised refers to the amendment of the Aliens Act on the temporary protection status of certain foreigners, and I will therefore answer the question on the basis of that paragraph. It is quite true that there has been a change in the law on foreigners, which has now been implemented, which provides for temporary protection for foreigners whose need for protection is due to a particularly serious situation in the country of origin in connection with armed conflict or the like. With the scheme we also relieve the pressure on the municipalities. We are doing this in order to promote the creation of a proper framework for those who are granted asylum in Denmark. We must always find the balance so that we can offer both protection to those who need it and, at the same time, we must be able to keep up and offer proper integration efforts in the municipalities. I believe that we have found that balance with the temporary protection system. At the same time, it is also important to say that we are offering all refugees reasonable conditions while they are staying in Denmark, including those granted temporary protection status. This is important at the very basic human level and, in fact, also for the integration process. It is vital that we get involved as early as possible with an integration effort so that those concerned can contribute as quickly as possible and, of course, also active citizens. It is about making demands so that people get to work so that people learn Danish, and so that they also find their way into the community and at the same time adhere to the standards and values that apply here. While they are here, we will meet the people with both respect and clear expectations, with an offer of content and meaning in everyday life, with access to work and education and with offers to children's families about care, club and school. This is beneficial to both the individual and, as such, to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140330	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140332	Thank you. Well, I guess it's no secret that it's on one of these points where, of course, we disagree most with the government. Where I think we are talking about unclean flags is, of course, the fact that there has never been an end to the confusion between refugee policy and immigration policy. Because what is the starting point for being a refugee is that when it is possible, you go back and then you have to go home. But what this proposal is proposing is that we start the whole process of integration, and that means that we should tell the Danes: Dear friends, these people will never come back. Because you build from day one upstairs, so they have to be made Danish citizens and integrated into Danish society, and you spend a lot of money on it. I think the government owes it to the people to tell them that this is not refugee policy, because it is immigration policy. The refugee policy has been turned into an immigration policy, and that is something we do not want to do away with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140451	I think that we also have on church politics. And then I think somewhere, it's a weird mix-up of things that the questioner does. It is the case that those people who have both been allowed to stay here, but who have also got the temporary status, go to the municipalities, then they must have a content in their lives, it is clear, because everything else, that is to say, to put people out and park them in a corner, is only to create even more human poverty. Many of these people are also deeply traumatized, and they need to be treated, they need to get their daily lives going, and that's what this is all about. Then you can disagree with it, that is fair enough, but that we have not said it and that we have not said it clearly, I completely disagree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140545	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140547	When I say what I am saying about not saying it clearly, it is all about going out and reporting out: dear friends, the people who come here will be integrated immediately, they will never come back, so drop any talk about them being refugees who will eventually be sent back. You could say that. I would respect that, because then you would tone clear flags. That's not what you do in this proposal. You start integration from day one with the hidden motive, so to speak, just to turn them into Danish citizens, because you have realised that they will never come home again, and that is where we deeply disagree. For the refugee policy that we stand for, and for which we will certainly fight, is that the people who come here as refugees should of course be sent home at some point. That is the very premise, that is what is meant by being a refugee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140639	Contrary to the questioner, I have not seen a crystal ball in which I can so slopingly say whether people are going back or not. For it depends essentially on whether there will be peace and whether there is an opportunity to return. See, I don't know, and the questioner doesn't know either. So you might just shoot a little high above the target. Then I will still insist that it is so important to give the people who are to stay here, either for a short time or for a long time, a life, a purpose in life, a healing process, and that is exactly what we do for many of those people. We reach out to them, and we care about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140721	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140723	I am merely trying to listen to the Minister discussing the principle of the fatal refugee policy that has been pursued, especially since the refugee law of 1983, which has mixed refugee policy and immigration policy, because it merely turns people into immigrants and actually indicates that these people will never be sent back home again. I just want the Danes to know that. At some point these people come to the country, and then they will get a residence permit, they will get a permanent residence permit, and in the end they will get citizenship. No one will be sent back. I think that the government could say that clearly, so that is the motive behind the legislation that has been put forward. Moreover, it has also been done that they save their own pension in their country of origin, from which they flee, and then receive a full old-age pension in Denmark, which I also think is a disaster. But the Minister can answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140817	Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140820	Thank you. Now I did not know that we were going to talk about refugee policy from 1983; it did not really appear in the Article 20 question, but if that is the premise, and the starting point and logic are that we should now go out and say that, then I just think: has the Danish People's Party been snoring through the 00s? Has it been done? Because then you had ample opportunity to talk about it and tell about it, and it just shows that this is some nonsense and some mess, and that's not what it's all about. Should we not just try to get back to what is the starting point of the question, which is precisely whether there should be this differentiation between those who have temporary protection and those who do not have, where I just say, and where the government also says that both parties must of course have a daily life where there is some content, where you can do some things where you can get to the bottom with regard to your traumas, or whatever it is? I think that's humanity. Then you can disagree with it, and that is fair enough, there is nothing unpleasant about it. But we just have different approaches to it, and that's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140928	The question has been closed, and I would like to thank the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. The next question is to the Minister for Business and Growth of Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218140955	What will the Minister specifically take of initiatives to amend the procurement directive in the EU, cf. the tax haven agreement of December 2014, where the government has committed itself to working in the EU to include tax requirements in tenders?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141020	I and the government attach great importance to resolving the problem of taxation and supply. Of course, it is far from appropriate for companies that win tenders to channel money into tax havens. This is an issue that we can best resolve together at EU level, and that is why the EU government will work to ensure that tax requirements can be included in tenders. Specifically, we will do so by addressing the issue of tax havens and procurement in all the relevant European fora. In this context, it is worth noting that issues of combating tax havens are not in the interests of the European Community too that public crowns are channelled into tax havens. Among other things, it can be done. I would like to point out that tax havens are a key element in the Commission's new work programme. And that is why we expect action at European level and the government will put pressure on the European Commission and the other Member States to resolve the issue of procurement as well. And by addressing the issue of supply and tax in the context of the discussions that are taking place, we ensure that the issue of procurement is an essential aspect of the current discussions. Finally, it should be stressed that the fight against tax havens is not just about tenders; as the tax havens package, which also includes SF, will also focus on transparency in relation to corporate accounts. So the government will therefore work for more openness on the tax payments of large listed companies in connection with the forthcoming revision of the Accounting Directives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141149	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141151	I am very pleased about that, and I am also very pleased with the tax havens agreement we made in December. I also think it was very, very good that the Minister, on behalf of the government, undertook that it should be Denmark's role to take the lead in the EU and put pressure on it, so that we can have some procurement rules that can take more account of some social conditions, including whether public crowns are being used for companies operating from tax havens. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister could go into this in more detail in relation to the next Council meeting, or which forums it might be appropriate to take it up in quite specific terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141234	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141236	After all, we take it up on every occasion when we meet representatives of the Commission. It is a little hassle about the fact that we have recently adopted a procurement directive, and then we are making a new procurement law here in Denmark. It is also one of the other issues. So if we were to wait for the normal procedure in the European Union, it would probably take a very long time, and that is why we have also said in the talks we have been holding with representatives of the Commission and with the other countries that we think this is a matter of urgency. We think it is urgent to resolve this problem because we also expect the people out there to expect clear answers to the problem. So we are not thinking that it should be the usual time. We are thinking that things should go faster, but also that the Commission must then find a way in which they can act, in other words how they can act, for example. in the context of the debate they have about the use by EU Member States of various tax structures and other things. Perhaps it would be very useful to promote something in this regard too. So all the places where we had to meet people who have something to do with this, we point out that we think this is a topical issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141338	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141339	I think that is clear from the Minister, because it is true that we have been overtaken by the circumstances, or vice versa, by the way, by the fact that the directive has just been revised, at the same time as there have been a number of issues which have focused on this in particular over the last six months. That is why I would also like to ask whether the Minister in Denmark, now that we have our own procurement law, will look at the rates under the Procurement Directive and whether it will be possible to implement that in order to also show the European Union that we want to take the lead in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141419	I can answer that already now. I'd like to take a look at that. That, as far as I understand, is also over in the next question, but don't worry about it. We'd like that. With regard to these limits below what we have committed ourselves to in relation to the European Union, i.e. the 1.5 million, we will specifically begin to find out how we can provide guidance so that we can impose requirements on providers in relation to taxation and other matters. On the whole, we would very, very much like to pursue everything we can in this area. That could also be what I think we jointly and on the basis of inspiration from the SF said, namely: let us try to develop something like a fair trade field. We could have a fair tax field so that companies might somehow qualify in that way. I and the government alone are interested in fair, equal and proper competition, and tax havens competition is not a competition we want to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141511	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen in the last round. It's 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141513	I would just like to thank the Minister for his reply and also for addressing the next question, which is of course related to this. In relation to the Minister's positive approach to this issue, I look forward to and expect that we will also be kept regularly informed of any progress that might be made within the framework of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141545	We would, of course, like to do so. After all, I cannot promise exactly when the Commission is acting, as long as I am not in charge of them, but we can always keep pushing. I think we should do the same. We should not forget this, so that, after six months, we think: well, now everything is going well again, why bother with it, because it can be a little difficult. In fact, I believe that we must constantly try to push, because I believe that it is a new, large and crucial agenda for the European people, including the Danish people, to see whether the people and companies in the world, which are the most wealthy, actually contribute to the community. That is why I think it is an agenda which at least my party and, I think, the author's party will be involved in constantly putting on the agenda, because it is a good agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141634	That concludes the question. The next question, as already announced, is also to the Minister for Business and Growth of Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141646	In addition to the government's commitment in the tax havens agreement of December 2014 that the EU government will work to ensure that tax claims can be included in tenders, will the Minister also take steps to amend the Danish offer law so that tax practices can be a parameter in line with price and quality when the public sends tasks in tenders?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141702	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141704	As I said, I think it is very important that we do what we can to ensure that Danish tax dollars are not sent into tax havens through invitations to tender. As we have just discussed, we must follow the EU's procurement rules when the public buys. Therefore, the EU government will work to ensure that tax requirements can be included in tenders. However, when it comes to small purchases, which we also mentioned, which are currently covered by the tender law, we have a little freer hands. And the government will shortly come up with a proposal for a Danish procurement law, which among other things. to replace some of the rules currently in the Act on Offers. The draft law does not contain any restrictions on the requirement of a particular tax practice in the case of small purchases which are not of interest to companies in other countries. However, this does not necessarily mean that the public authorities will always be able to place emphasis on tax practices in these procurements. It also depends on other rules, for example. the principles of administrative law. That is why we need to learn a little more about how the rules work together in order to be able to make it clear to public entities when and how they can impose requirements on tax practices. I have therefore set in motion an analysis work aimed at clarifying more clearly how to impose tax requirements on the tenders currently covered by the tender law. The aim is, as a starting point, that the analysis work should result in a guide to the public procurement entities, so that it becomes quite clear how one can legally demand a special tax practice if that is what one wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141840	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141841	I think that sounds very promising. There has also been some interest both from municipalities and regions in actually being able to incorporate it here when they have to send out assignments, most recently with the Region of South Jutland and with the Municipality of Gribskov. So it also seems that in regions and municipalities there is some interest in actually being able to place emphasis on this in line with price and quality and other aspects. Then, of course, there will be an investigation work which I understand the Minister has set in motion. I am grateful for the way in which we can impose the same objective basis as other procurement aspects such as price and quality. Just to understand the Minister correctly: if the administrative aspects are in order, then one could have tax practice as a parameter in line with price and quality?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218141944	Yes, it must be the case that we must, of course, abide by the law. That is to say, it is no good that we suddenly start to violate other laws in order to get our tax practices in order; we must not do so. The intention is to provide guidance in which each public contractor can say that it actually wants a fair tax practice, whatever it is defined as, but one can make that requirement, and that is part of the condition for them to be given an order. You can do that if you want to. We just want to make a guide, so it's exactly, compared to you doing it right at the time. This.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142056	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142058	I think that is a very good example for the Minister, for example. After all, fair trade was not an area which we had to take into account a few years ago or which our municipal politicians out there had to take into account. It was something that was changed, so in this way I think I hear the minister say that these things aren't chopped in granite. There is a fundamental framework that we must respect, but also with dialogue and so on. There are some things you can challenge. Now, of course, the big question will be how we can deal with this new area, which may not deal with actual illegal tax practices, but aggressive tax planning, that you have subsidiaries in tax havens, etc. And it is, of course, that the area is covered with grey areas that make it difficult, but I am very optimistic after hearing the Minister today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142154	Well, it's certain that it takes some work from us. It is not the case that all foreign companies, because they have a different tax payment, are bad investors in Denmark. In fact, there are many who behave very nicely and properly, and even many we do a lot to attract to this country. But then this has to do with saving money away internationally too, and we can see that I think it's him that Piketty and others have documented it. It has been the case that the richest people in this world have no shame in life, compared to how much money they want to put together, and how little they think they want to give to other people who actually have nothing. For this reason alone, I believe that this will be an important agenda for the future because people will not put up with it. I see that Fair Trade Mark and others have grown up from below, where they have said that now you will not put up with buying your coffee in a place where people are treated like slaves. We also see with the Fair Tax movement and elsewhere around the world that public opinion will not help to pay its tax dollars for something where it is known that such aggressive tax planning is taking place, saving money on some mysterious islands around the world, etc. It's too clever, it's too smart, and we don't want it anymore. In fact, we think that everyone should contribute to the community, including those with which we act on the part of the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142311	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142314	Well, that was a very nice speech from the Minister, I think, and I am very, very pleased to hear that. I agree with the Minister that this has also become a great popular desire, because especially when it comes to tax dollars when it comes to sending out tenders to private companies, it hits people hard on their sense of justice, that tax dollars should go to companies that then hide them in tax havens and do not pay taxes, so that they do not contribute to the community in this way. So I think it has been a good round and I thank the Minister very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142347	The question has been closed and I would also like to thank the Minister. The next question is to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142401-2	Thank you. I would like the Minister to explain whether the proposal for a new train bridge over Vejle Fjord is being maintained if we now imagine that not all parties behind the agreement will support the whole project.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142419	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142422	Thank you for the question. After all, we have discussed the new railway bridge several times here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and we may also come to it in the future. First of all, let me say that the new train bridge over Vejle Fojr, based on such a whole transport considerations, should first of all be built because it is a good project that gives a large and much-needed improvement in both runway capacity and driving times. We have even calculated very carefully what it will give of winnings, and it is of course calculations that were set in motion through a broad settlement, which the author's party, the Left, is also involved in. And that gives 81⁄2 minutes of direct driving time saving, plus that the increased capacity allows you to reduce the driving time allowance by 31⁄2 minutes, i.e. a total of 12 minutes per day. Once you have to pass this area. It benefits 14,000 passengers every day. So it is 14,000 people who every day will save 12 minutes driving on trains between the parts of Denmark. That is why it is true that this connection is an absolutely crucial premise for us to get there, as the conciliation points out, namely to introduce the timetable for Denmark's trains. It wasn't us who launched it. It was the VK government that launched the schedule. It was Lars Løkke Rasmussen who then called it the flagship in public traffic. It didn't happen when you were responsible. Now we are responsible, and we have found the money and also a broad majority in the Folketing. And the bridge over Vejle Fjord is central and I have described how many minutes you save per. Travellers can't make the schedule if you don't also make the Vejlefjord Bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142621	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142624	Thank you. Now the minister says that the plan has been made and that the money has been found. Then I would like to ask whether there is agreement among the parties behind the conciliation on the Train Fund DK not to give priority to the total capital investment if it turns out that the financing of the Train Fund DK cannot be done with the financing model set out in the Togfonden DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142658	After all, we have taken that question into account in the conciliation procedure. The compromise is based on a projection of oil prices, and it is not the government, and it is not the Folketing, but indeed the experts in the International Energy Agency under the OECD, who have made an estimate of how oil prices will move in the medium and long term. It is their cautious estimate that we have entered the Train Fund DK. If it turns out that their estimates are wrong, and we can't know that, just as others can't know, nor can the questioner... it's agreed in the settlement that the parties will meet again in 2024 and do a status. If there is a lack of money that cannot be rejected we will find the remaining funds in the state budget, just as in this decade we will find 100 billion. kr., which we invest in traffic. Therefore, it will of course be possible to find the possible remaining amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142753	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142754	But then I would like to ask the Minister whether it is the Minister's view that at some point the government will make a statement or form of evaluation of the financing model underlying the entire investment in the Togfonden DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142816	Yes, it is. Nor should it come as the great surprise to the Danish Parliament, since it is written in the actual text of the conciliation, that the parties undertake to carry out a review in 2024. I also believe that I have said this to the questioner before, but I do not mind. So we're gonna do a cashier's check in 2024 and we're gonna look at how much money came in? What has happened to the oil price? It will certainly go up and down. Even if you can hope as a car owner that the price of petrol will be down for a long time, I don't believe it. It's probably going up and down. This is the estimate, and the trend will then be • the International Energy Agency says that it will probably go up somewhat over the next few decades. And that's what we've been trying to do. It has therefore been agreed, so my answer is in the affirmative. It has already been agreed in the settlement that we will make a cashier's check in 2024.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142906	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142907	I would like to thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142912	The question is closed. Thanks to the Minister for Transport. The next question is to the Minister for the Environment of Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142922	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that coastal protection should be a national task and does the Minister recognise that there can be more ways to ensure coast safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142932	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218142935	It is, after all, the basis of the coastal protection law that it is the landowner himself who is responsible for protecting his property from the sea and floods. It can be said that Denmark is surrounded by sea for good and evil. That's one of the things that makes it a nice country to live in, and there are many who enjoy living close to the sea.I think we are many who appreciate it, but it also makes us particularly vulnerable when it comes to the violent weather events that we have witnessed with increasing frequency in recent years, for example. the storms that we experienced in January. So it is for good and evil that we live by and with the sea and the raging of the elements, one might say, in Denmark. But the principle of the law is that it is the landowner himself who is responsible for protecting his property from the sea and from floods. Municipalities also have the possibility, in special cases, to impose coastal protection on landowners. It is, however, a possibility that they make limited use of. Municipalities also have the opportunity to cofinance coastal protection. These are principles which a broad majority of the Danish Parliament has last maintained in the revision of the coastal protection law in 2006, i.e. under the previous government, which chose to stick to that principle. I believe that this is a good principle, which also ensures the right incentive structure, where the individual landowner is responsible for protecting his property. I would like to make it clear that there is a reason why it is called coastal protection rather than coastal protection, as is stated in the question, because the coast is, and has always been, dynamic, and it is impossible to protect 7,300 km of coastline. We are talking about coastal protection, where we give priority to action according to the circumstances in relation to the risk of loss of social values, in relation to the economy, in relation to political agreements, etc. The government wants to proceed objectively and see things in a whole, and that is why I have also taken the initiative for a coastal analysis which must be completed by the end of this year, which will provide us with the overall overview of where the risk of flooding and erosion is greatest, and assess the existing efforts and legislation. That analysis can then form the basis for us to discuss politically how to ensure cost-effective coastal protection in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143209	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143211	We may have a debate on whether it should be coastal protection or coastal protection, but the purpose is to ensure that the values that are on land are guaranteed in some way, and then we can discuss whether the word should be one or the other, but when I ask whether it should be a national task, it is of course, in view of the fact that, after all, we have a cost over on the west coast, which may be more historic than it is logical, we also have that in other areas, but I am also asking about these ways of safeguarding the coast. Now the Minister himself did not mention anyone, but the reason why I am asking about the ways to ensure is precisely in the light of the question I had before the winter holiday, where it was again pointed out that it is, of course, the landowner's own responsibility. When the landowner, or it may be a landowner's association, finds a way to protect the coast, they can be refused, and they can be refused to secure their property, their values. We have seen that in some places, and that is why I ask. These are two things: who decides what method owners may use to secure their values or to protect the coast if we are to use the Minister's words? I think I'm gonna stick there in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143338	I fully recognise that there are different methods of coastal protection, and the best way is to decide on the basis of a specific application, which the Coastal Directorate then deals with on the basis of the Coastal Protection Act. It is, of course, the law which governs the proceedings that are taking place there, and there are various differences of opinion in such a decision, but it is therefore a concrete balance in each case as to what methods may be authorised. But, as I also remember, I think we had an exchange on what the questioner also says before the winter break, so there are pros and cons of the various methods that will be taken into account, for example. We are talking about tough or soft coastal protection, and there are some disadvantages in relation to, for example. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to measures to be taken against air pollution by gases from the engines of motor vehicles and their trailers is an important step in the right direction. What I am emphasising, and what I think is crucial, is that there is a good dialogue between those who apply for coastal protection and the Coastal Directorate, so that we can find out what methods are allowed, because it is of course essential that citizens have the opportunity to protect their properties from the sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143457	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143459	It is in such a small booklet that I have been given during a visit to the Coast Directorate, namely the Coast Protection Strategy. It states that the objective clause provides that necessary coastal protection can be allowed as a starting point, but not that you can be allowed to do anything as a landowner. The Minister actually describes this very well. But then it says that the law provides that coastal protection must be carried out with due regard to a number of considerations which are assessed on the basis of the conditions of the coastline in question. When we take the example of Nørløv Strand, where the houses have fallen into the water, does the Minister acknowledge that sand-feeding, which was allowed up there, has not worked?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143542	When the Coast Directorate looks at what is pros and cons and what can then be allowed, it is precisely a balance. Hard coastal protection has negative consequences. For example: I also understand that there has been a local consideration as to whether in the summer you can have major disadvantages in the harsh coastal protection, so that you cannot use the beaches for recreational purposes, which are also some of the things that help to attract tourists to the area. So there has also been a local discussion about whether it is desirable or not. I am confident that the Coast Directorate is loyally managing on the basis of the law and in this way goes into each individual case and looks at the advantages and disadvantages, and that in this particular case too they have looked at what would be the most appropriate coastal protection. True feeding works in such a way that when a storm comes and erosion occurs, it is the sand with which you have fed, which is initially erosionally removed, you can say. But what happened to the recent storm at Nørløv Beach was very violent. I fully acknowledge that. It is very violent to see your summer house fall into the abyss.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143658	Then we'll have room for a co-questioner. And this is sir. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party, who is a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143704	Thank you. Now I noticed at the outset that the Minister spoke of the glory of living by the sea and that it is wonderful to live on the coast. Yes, it certainly is if it does not disappear, so one's glory value lies and swims around out there in the form of one's cottage, which has washed away due to faulty coast protection or coast protection, if one wants to. Now the question is very much on the national side and whether the Minister believes that it is a national duty to ensure coast safety, but now it is like turning into North Jutland, where an attempt has been made in the past and now we are also talking about alternative coastal protection with drain pipes. While the drain pipes were lying there, it was funny that there was a really long way to document it, and if the minister wants it, I'd like to overlook it from these cottages to the edge of the water, because there was a good, wide sandy beach. After the municipality of Hjørring decided years ago to move these pipes up, the beach has since quietly disappeared. Doesn't the Minister recognize that it was a mistake to pick up those pipes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143815	I am also aware that there has been such an experiment with these drain pipes, as far as I am aware, from the period 2005 to 2008, which means that an attempt was made on this SIC system, as I think it is called. A thorough evaluation was carried out at that time by two professors appointed by the Coastal Directorate and the Skagen Innovation Center, respectively, who were behind this solution. The conclusions of the scientific evaluation were that these pressure equalization pipes did not have a sufficient effect to be suitable as a coastal protection method on the west coast of Jutland. I am referring to the fact that a thorough evaluation has been carried out at that time by two independent professors, who have therefore concluded that it is not an appropriate method in the place in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143909	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218143910	I could have said, as a former colleague who unfortunately is not here anymore, that there are virtually no limits to the Minister's ignorance in this area. I have some sympathy for this, because the Minister has not had it as a resort area for so long, but the experiment in question, which was evaluated by two professors hand in hand with the Coastal Directorate, was down at Skodbjerge further down on the west coast, so it has nothing to do with Nørlev Strand. It was, moreover, a report delivered with over 1,400 factual errors. It is later admitted by the then Resort Ministry and thus also by the Coast Directorate on their website. So I don't give much for that. But back to the question: does the Minister not think that there could be alternatives? Sand-feeding simply does not work in this area. There's more flushes out than you can pump in. Could we not then consider that the Coastal Directorate may have been wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144010	In general, I do not believe that sand-feeding has failed. These have been very violent storms, and yes, erosion occurs on the west coast of Jutland. That's a condition. We are doing a great deal to prevent this erosion, and soft coastal protection has also been authorised in the area. As I have said, this is in each case a concrete balance between the advantages and disadvantages of the various methods. I also understand from the debate, which has been about this drainage pipe system, that the person who has this company thinks this is a really good tool. I just have to say that in the light of the scientific evaluation that has been carried out, there is no reason to say that there are more tests to be carried out on this method. But I fully recognise that there are, of course, different ways of doing this and that new ideas are being put forward, and we must of course also test them. I think that has also happened in this particular case with that method.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144117	Then we have to go back to the main questioner, and that is Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144120	I just stumble a little because the minister says that these professors have said that these pipes do not have a sufficient effect, and then you choose sand-feeding, and then my question just has to go on: do you think that the sand-feeding at Nørlev Strand has had a sufficient effect? Because I think there are some homeowners who will be a little puzzled about that, especially in view of the fact that when they bought a holiday home 10 years ago, there was 50 metres of beach, and now there is nothing. Then there is another issue on which I have another question, and that is that they have been refused harsh coastal protection up at Nørlev Strand, but the municipality itself has a tough coast protection right next to where the landowners live, and that has meant that their municipal roads still exist, whereas the summer houses are in the water. Can't the Minister tell us why the municipality can be allowed when the landowners can't be allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144215	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144217	It is true that there is one of the municipal sections in this area; it can be seen from the monitoring back from 2008 that there is tough coastal protection. It's not something the Coast Directorate has authorized. I am not aware of how to obtain the permission it may come back from the time of the counties, but it is not something that the Coast Directorate has given permission to do. So it cannot be said that because it is a municipal site, the Coastal Directorate has given permission and because it is private landowners, they do not. In other words, it is mainly the case that soft coastal protection is preferred to the harsh one for the sake of natural values in the area, and I also understand, as I have said, that there has been local concern that severe coastal protection can also have consequences in relation to the recreational values in the area during the summer period, where it is also an area which is very much visited by tourists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144312	That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, and it's still for the Minister for the Environment, and it's still for Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144321	When the Minister has taken the initiative for a coastal analysis of Denmark's 7,300 km long coastline, which must be completed by the end of this year, and which will form the basis for an assessment of where the risk of flooding and erosion is greatest, is the Coastal Directorate not already aware of these conditions in view of the fact that the Directorate has existed since 2001?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144343	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144345	It is true that the Coastal Directorate was set up in 2001, but it was as a continuation of the Coastal Inspectorate. Before that, we had what was called the State Water Building Service, and it's all the way back from the 1800s. So we've seen a long story here. So it does not just go back to 2001, and that is why one can, of course, ask: what do we already know, and is this really completely superfluous? Now I would say that it would not seem to me to do such a comprehensive analysis if it were the case that we had that knowledge already today. For, like other state institutions, there is also an ongoing need for us and the Coastal Directorate to update our knowledge in order to ensure that we have a solid professional basis, of course, both in relation to the decisions that are being taken in the Coastal Directorate, but also to ensure that we have a political basis for decision making, which means that we have the full overview when we take this discussion, which I think is quite relevant, in relation to how we organise this action in the future. For example, climate change has up-to-dateised the need for this analysis. We most recently received a report from the IPCC, which shows that the consequences of climate change are severe, and in addition, the Ministry now has the opportunity to draw on a large number of new but not such accumulated experiences from both the state and the municipalities and the landowners in the development of coastal protection efforts. So this analysis should give us a current and comprehensive picture of where the risk of flooding and erosion is greatest, and also assess existing legislation. This will give us an up-to-date basis for discussing how to ensure a future coastal protection based on where the need is greatest.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144542	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144544	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister himself mentioned that at least the Coastal Inspectorate has existed since 1973 and that we have had something before. I think it might just indicate even more that we should then have a reasonable knowledge of our coasts, since if nothing else we have had an agency that has had to deal with this 7,300 km of coastline. The Minister now mentions the work of this committee which has been set in motion and in which, among other things, the work of the committee is being carried out. I need to look at climate change and things like that. But the knowledge you have about the coasts, that is, the knowledge you have about where the erosion occurs first, where there is most erosion etc. I suppose that has nothing to do with climate change as such, it also has something to do with past experience, and I am surprised that so much time has to go by. When I say that, it is seen in the light of the fact that there are some homeowners, many of whom are of course holiday home owners, who actually want to protect their furniture, their property, but who do not have the opportunity, because now you have to wait a year for some report, which I think most homeowners, whose house is about to fall into the water, are completely indifferent to. But that's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144710	I certainly do not think we should wait until this analysis is complete. Until we have obtained the basis for a political debate on the future of coastal protection, it is, of course, the legislation in force that is in force, that is the basic principle, which I also explained in my first reply, that it is the landowner's own responsibility to protect himself from the sea that applies. The municipalities have the opportunity to both go in and impose on the individual landowner coast protection, and the municipalities also have the opportunity to go in and finance some of these solutions. There are also ongoing applications to the Coastal Directorate for permission for coastal protection, and I am very pleased about that, because that means that there is already a great deal going on out there. What I want with an overall analysis is for Mrs Pia Adelsteen and myself and the other politicians here in the Folketing to have an overall basis to make, I think, as important decisions as this is all about. Because it is a very, very great challenge we face, with climate change, with the shorter intervals between the big storms, the big ones, you might say, events that make the coast erode faster. Therefore, it is relevant that we get the overall overview.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144824	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144825	But then you might quite rightly ask: when this report comes at the end of this year, is it not already out of date? For by then we may have had three autumn storms, which may have knocked down another series of summer houses, and so it doesn't really matter with that report. Because then it is out of date, and that is why I say: let us do something, let us get started, and let us get started on something that works. That is actually what I am appealing to in relation to just waiting for a report. We have seen it in several places, we have seen it on the west coast, in the south, in the north, towards the Limfjord, where there are some things that need to be done and where you say that if you want to do it in the cheapest way possible, then it is not necessarily sand-feeding that needs to be done, at least not in the way it is done today, but these are some other things that we may need to do to safeguard our property. I am just surprised that in the past no overview has been provided by the Coast Directorate, which has existed for an incredibly long time: what do our coasts look like? Where is it that the erosion is greatest? 'Cause I guess there's nothing new about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144926	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218144928	There are several things I would like to say to that comment. After all, a number of analyses have been carried out in the past, and this has been done continuously, but the analysis we have now started has not been done before. It is an overall analysis of the 7,300 km of coastline in Denmark, which will give us an overview of where the risk is greatest, of course on the basis of the knowledge we now have about climate change and what it will mean in the future, and on the basis of the experiences of both state, municipalities and landowners with coastal protection across the country and the different conditions that apply around it. But since Mrs Pia Adelsteen says so clearly that we must do something now, I am very curious to hear what the Danish People's Party really wants us to do here and now and how we want to finance it. Because we can't get around that, I think we can quickly agree that this is so I'm very curious to hear what the Danish People's Party thinks should be done here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145036	We'll see if we find out. But at least now is the time for the co-questioner, sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145042	I would be happy to reply to that by the Minister. Since it has been transferred from one resort to another, it must be assumed that the necessary paper has been followed. So it must be known to the Minister that among other things. A large Dutch company, which translates billions of dollars, it is not just that taken out of thin air has offered to coast-proof 110 km on the west coast of Jutland at a price that is considerably lower than the sums spent by the Coast Directorate on sand-feeding. The Coast Directorate today feeds sand to DKK 48.14. per cubic meter 1.7 million. m3 a year, which then, when we reach the autumn, at best has washed back into the North Sea, and then we can pump it up again. It serves Rohde Nielsen, who is the contractor on this, by the way thick and fat on it. The Coast Directorate could buy a sandsucker himself. That's what calculations have been made. Then you could sandfeed for 5 kroner. per cubic meter. So it's not economics we're talking about. The Danish People's Party should like to find the funding for this if only the Minister would acknowledge that there may be other ways to ensure coast safety and that there may be others other than the Coastal Directorate who can do the job. But I do not know whether the Minister is even interested in that dialogue or is aware that there is an alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145154	I also think that, in my initial reply, I already recognised that there are, of course, several different methods of coastal protection and that in each case it is always a concrete balance based on the application now coming from the municipality or the landowner or landowner association concerned, which is assessed in relation to the coastal protection law. But I really do not think that, as Mr. Kim Christiansen now says, at all, answers the question of how the Danish People's Party will fund an effort on a 7,300 km coastline, if that is the case, and I have to understand from the questioners that it is the state that has to go in and finance it all. Or maybe it isn't? Perhaps we could clarify that a little more. Does the Danish People's Party envisage that the state should take over the funding completely? Then I don't think that's the math, like Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansen ran here, will hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145246	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145249	The calculation is now correct, because if you feed the sand at 1.7 million. m3 and you can save approx. 40 kroner. per It runs into 68 million cubic meters. kr. a year. It is, however, some kind of money, and we can achieve a small piece of coastal protection with it. I hope the Minister will acknowledge that the calculation is correct. I also hope that the Minister has seen the offer made by the Dutch company BAM, which is not such novices in the coastal area. Since most of the country is below sea level, one must also assume that they have some expertise, and one must also assume that they have roughly the same storms from the North Sea as we do. So is the Minister aware of that offer? And did the Minister bother to answer that? This was not the case in the Ministry of Transport, where it was sent to Jacob Heinsen, Head of Department. But it can probably be forwarded to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145337	I would say that I myself have not had that offer in hand or had to answer that offer, so I cannot say that on a stand-by basis. Nor can I at present validate the calculation that Mr. Kim Christiansen is setting up, but I am happy to answer a written question about it if it is of interest. I can only say that when we do the coastal analysis, we are of course also looking at experiences from other countries, but I also think that we have to take into account that there is a difference between Holland and Denmark in relation to the methods that can work in different places. However, the coastal analysis will also take international experience into account in the reflections on how we design coastal protection in Denmark most cost-effectively in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145417	Then we go back to the main questioner, who is Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145421	We look forward to that, of course, because I think there are many who are eagerly waiting for us to have this analysis of the 7,300 km long distance, and then hope that the analysis is still timely when we get it. And I say it with irony in my voice, I must honestly admit, because we may well have had three autumn storms that have changed things before that analysis comes. Some things may have happened. I know that when the storm Bodil came, and now I lived at that time in North Zealand, none of those I knew there had ever experienced anything like it. So new things are happening all the time, and that means that you can sit at your desk for quite so long and try to analyze what might happen, but the landowners who are in the problem to their necks are the ones that are going to suffer, and I just think you should acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145508	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145509	Well, there is no doubt that these are strong forces we are up against here, and the pictures we see of cottages falling off the cliff, of homes that are flooded so that people cannot live in their own houses, yes, it is very, very violent. I think it affects all of us, and if you try to put yourself in the place of those people, it is a very, very big task we face here. I don't imagine this is something we can solve overnight. I understand that the Danish People's Party thinks it can be solved with a snap by buying a Dutch solution. I don't imagine this is something we solve overnight. I imagine that, on the basis of a thorough analysis of the coherent Danish coastline, we are creating a common overview so that we can politically take this discussion on an enlightened basis, because there are many different experiences of the state as well as municipalities and landowners around Denmark have had different experiences. I have also noticed in my time as Minister that there have been different practices as to when and on what basis there has been state cofinancing. I think we need a thorough analysis of this so that we can take this discussion, and I am prepared to take it, but on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145622	That was the last answer to question 12. Then we move on to Question 13 and it's still to the Minister for the Environment, but it's this time, sir. Kim Christiansen, who is a questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145632	Thank you. When, in answer to Question No 1, the Minister replied: S 646 on Wednesday, 4 February, said that this analysis should give us a comprehensive picture of where the risk of flooding and erosion is greatest, and on this basis assess the existing legislation, and in this way we can have a basis for a political discussion on how to achieve cost-effective coastal protection, does the Minister not think that coastal protection has been cost-effective so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145703	As I have also mentioned before, the coastal protection law was last revised in 2006 and the intention of the amendment to the law and of the coastal protection strategy drawn up in 2011 was to have a more holistic coastal protection effort in Denmark. A number of considerations are being emphasised in the coastal protection effort, for example. the needs of the site concerned, the conservation and restoration of the coastal landscape and the safeguarding of existing access to the coast. The aim is to continue to move from the approval of individual installations by individual landowners to greater coastal protection as solutions for larger sections in accordance with the provisions of the Coastal Protection Act. At the same time, municipalities have continuously increased their interest and commitment in coastal protection, not least in the light of the climate debate and the storms of recent years. I do not doubt that a good effort is being made in many places, but I also believe that there may be a need to pool experience and learn from each other in order to establish good practice across the country. At the same time, as I have just said, when I took office as Minister, I also noticed that there have been different methods of financing these measures, and I think there is a need to look for this, that is, what the reason for it is and what the reason for it is. And the coastal analysis will then reveal whether the municipalities also have the right tools to ensure cost-effective coastal protection efforts. So there is still a need to wait for this coastal analysis, and when it is ready I will look forward to having a political discussion of it on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145844	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145847	We hope that it will not be the minister in office who will take the debate which, if necessary, will be the rapporteur. We are a little behind on Question 11, because the Minister is being asked whether this should be a national task. I actually believe that the Minister said that it should be a municipal task well along the way and that it should be a ground-owner's task, but now the Minister obviously does not think that it is cost-effective for the municipalities to solve this task, now we need to look at larger sections and look at a whole. That is a good thing, because then we are getting close to the fact that this is going to be a national task. That's what I heard in the answer. So my question is this: if effective coastal protection is to be operated and, in particular, cost effective coastal protection, should we not also look at whether there are cheaper methods of coastal protection than headless simply pumping sand onto the Danish coasts?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218145944	After all, cost-effectively means that you look at the total cost of a given project and then you look at what the objective of coastal protection is and whether the two things are in a good relationship with each other. That is, in fact, what is meant by the word 'cost-effective'. And when I say that there are many good things going on in Denmark already today, it is a recognition, and we must of course include the experiences that have been gained out there in the analysis that I have now set in motion. After all, we must look at what is of good and bad experience with the way it has been organised so far. In December I met a number of mayors on Zealand. I was in Korsør to look at the efforts that have been made, and I could see that it was a great wish from the mayors that we should ensure more coordination across municipal boundaries, because in each municipality too it is a great task and not something that can be solved alone within the municipal boundaries. So this is an example of how there is a desire and a need, including in the municipalities, for us to get this into a wider context. So that is also one of the things I would like to achieve here, so that we get the experience with the work and get a look at how we can better secure the coherent action in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150101	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150103	Finally, I would just like to say that it is probably based on cashier thinking on the part of the municipalities rather than on expertise, because it is still being done in cooperation with the Coastal Directorate. So we agree that the expertise lies in one place, namely in the Coastal Directorate. The fact that some municipalities then bid for it is what it is. I'd like to ask you a question about cost-effectiveness. Now the minister has mentioned this SIC tube and also referred to this report... it was so a wrong place in the country, but that's what it is... but couldn't the Minister imagine, for example. to go for a walk in the experimental area that has not yet been destroyed by the Coast Directorate, over on the west coast of Jutland, at Skodbjerge. The experiment in question saved more than 100 million. kr. in sand feeding. Isn't it cost-effective, or am I looking at it all wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150154	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150156	First of all, it must be made clear whether it is technically possible to choose between different instruments. So, will this instrument be relevant to the particular coastline? If there are then two instruments that may be relevant, then you look at what is the cheapest and most cost-effective solution. So the premise is that it is technically as good a solution as the other solution before you start weighing up the cost. I should just point out again that I refer to the evaluation carried out by the pilot project carried out between 2005 and 2008, which concluded that it is therefore not a relevant instrument in relation to the west coast of Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150242	Then we move on to the co-questioner. It's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150247	Thank you. It is always good to rely on a report, which later has been recognized that there are more than 1,400 bugs in it. But I won't waste my time on that right now. Instead, I would like to ask: if you think sand-feeding is so effective and you think that coastal protection should be cost-effective, then the Minister cannot explain why you have not had your own sand-feeding machine or ship via the Coastal Directorate, you have bought one yourself, because then you could have sand-feed for 5 DKK. per cubic meters versus the $48 we're paying now? I mean, without spending more money, which could be used for some other coastal protection, we could then have had 7 300 km of coastline. Does the Minister think that would be a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150341	I can neither confirm nor deny the calculation made by Mrs Pia Adelsteen here. I would very much like to pass the question on to the Coastal Directorate so that they can explain how they are organising this whole operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150356	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150358	Well, then we'll have to ask you some written questions. I mean, all these questions have been asked. They've just been assigned to the Ministry of Transport. That is what is the whole hops and one of the reasons why you might get a little irritated that things have suddenly moved. 'Cause then we're gonna sit here and start over one more time. But that's what it is. At the same time, we can also ask about this letter from the Dutch company, which has actually made an offer to secure the west coast. If it's to be cost-effective, I can come up with a little doubt, because it's not just money we're talking about, I can hear it. It is also a question of things being natural, and I know what. Well, at least that's how I understand the Minister. And all of a sudden, it's not a question of protecting the coast. I do not know what it is about: putting people into work moving sand or something? It seems that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150455	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150457	Mrs Pia Adelsteen actually started correctly by saying that there are, of course, different criteria that are being looked at when assessing which coastal protection method will be the best in a specific case, and that may be the consideration of nature in the area. But it is clear that you are looking at: how do we protect this coastline? And what I attach great importance to is that when the Coastal Directorate gets an application, you also enter into a dialogue with the applicants concerned to get a common understanding of how best to create a good solution for that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150535	Then we'll go back to the main questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150540	I would just like to take up the thread where we ended, namely that the Minister refers to this faulty report, of which most of the information was, moreover, provided by the Coast Directorate. And some of the other exercises were done at home in a bathtub with one of the professors. That's what the report says. I would also recommend to the Minister that all these papers be forwarded, including the Dutch company's offer, BAM, because then there was a chance of getting to grips with the problems, and that is probably one of the main tasks of the Minister. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that there is not so much more to say on this issue, except that a buzzard cannot normally fly either, at least if it is the science that has to support it. But I would recommend the Minister to take a trip to Skodbjerge and take a walk on the beach over there. And I would really like to ask if the minister could be interested in me going with him because then the minister can see for himself that the brumbassen can fly. There's sand over there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150640	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150642	I will not go further into that debate about a concrete method of solution or a method of coastal protection, but just refer to what I have already said. And if there are further questions in relation to that report, I think we should take them in writing. I would just like to stress once again that it is of course crucial to me when we look at how we are to organise coastal protection in Denmark in the future, that we make sure that we have an overall view of what the challenge is, where the risk is greatest, and on that basis also discuss whether we can organise it more cost-effectively and better in the future in the light of the experience there is. As I can hear the Danish People's Party, one is actually more concerned that a very specific method of coastal protection enjoys the promotion than one is by creating the overall overview. I think that as a responsible member of parliament and as a party, we should be able to give an answer as to how we can finance what we ourselves propose in relation to this whole discussion. This has not been done, because an example of this particular method of coastal protection has been highlighted, but there is no relation to the overall protection of the coast in Denmark, how it should be organised in the future. I think the Danish People's Party owes an answer to this if you think that you cannot wait for the coastal analysis, which I think is the best way to do it, namely that we create the overall overview first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150807	Whatever the case, we are done with Question No. 13. And even if everything is not clear, there are new opportunities to take up that debate in many places. And so we have one more question for the Minister for the Environment, who has also been asked by Mr. Kim Christiansen. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 14.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150822	Thank you for that, President. The question is: what is the reason why coastal protection has changed the Resort Ministry from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of the Environment, and who has decided to change?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150833	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150835	Of course, I am happy to answer the question here too. I understand that my colleague, the Minister for Transport, has also been convened in consultation on the same issue. However, according to the Constitution, it is the Prime Minister's power to determine the number of ministries and also their division of labour between them. And in the Royal Resolution of 3 February 2014, a number of changes were made to the composition and distribution of the ministers, including the transfer of the Coast Directorate from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of the Environment. The relocation should be seen in the light of the fact that the tasks of the Coastal Directorate concerning coastal protection and the management of the territorial sea are largely related to the other tasks of the Ministry of the Environment. This is true, for example. the enforcement of environmental considerations in relation to applications for installations in maritime and coastal zones, climate adaptation, storm flood management and the Flood Directive. The tasks of the Coastal Directorate concerning the regulation of commercial ports were carried out in the Ministry of Transport, as these tasks are closely integrated with the handling of business and passenger transport by the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150936	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218150938	That last one sounds interesting to me. Does this mean that the tasks of the Coastal Directorate in relation to the Danish ports remain in the Ministry of Transport? Is that how it's supposed to be? Because that was precisely one of the reasons why the whole task with the Coast Directorate was put under the Ministry of Transport, so if it continues to be in the Ministry of Transport and that is what I hear the Minister say... then I see no idea at all in moving it, except... but it would then be postulates, so I will not go into that. But what I would just like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister is aware of how many trials are pending against the Coast Directorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151014	It is, of course, true when I say that the tasks relating to commercial ports remained in the Ministry of Transport, and I am rather surprised that the questioner is not aware of this, because that is what the royal resolution says. However, we can clarify this in writing if there are doubts as to what has actually moved over. I am not aware of the number of pending trials.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151040	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151043	This is the third or fourth time in this process that the Minister has indicated that the Minister is not aware of what is going on, and I think that is impressive. But, of course, we ask the question in writing. The Minister cannot, of course, know everything when the resort area has been there for such a short time. But it is clear that we will have to ask the Prime Minister if it is the Prime Minister who is moving around these resorts; we will have to when we cannot get answers from the Minister for Transport or the Minister for the Environment. I mean, two ministers who have been involved in this have no idea what's going on or at least won't tell me. So, in conclusion, I just want to say that I do not have so many questions anymore, and I will probably not spend all my time either, because I really think it is quite pointless to see that this is not a plea for a particular coastal protection mode. But the problem is precisely that the Coastal Directorate has advocated one particular way of protecting the coast. I'm not saying that pipe testing is the only thing that's sacrificing. I can only see that in some places where it has been used there is sand. In other places where you feed sand, there is sand, but there are also places where it doesn't. You could then let it go hand in I can't wait to see what ways you can get to coast protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151202	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151205	I think it sounds as if the questioner did not really listen when I answered this question, namely that there are a number of tasks in the area of the Ministry of the Environment which are very well in line with what is going on in the Coastal Directorate. So, with regard to the entire administration of the maritime territory in relation to the coasts, there is really good reason that it is now in the Ministry of the Environment. Then there were tasks that remained in the Ministry of Transport because it makes really good sense. In other words, it is of course the Prime Minister who makes decisions about how different things should be placed, in which resort ministers. But for me, as Minister for the Environment, this makes a great deal of sense because of the synergy effect in relation to other tasks carried out by the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151247	Here, too, we have a co-questioner. It's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151253	It is only a very short one, and it will most certainly be a comment, because I believe that the rest of the questions must come in writing. There has been a royal resolution in connection with the revision of this coastal protection. I could then ask what other changes have been made in the ministries, because I must honestly admit that royal resolutions may not be what I read most. It may also be too bad if you're sitting in here, it's possible, but I haven't noticed. But are there any other things that went over to the Ministry of the Environment at the time, other than coastal protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151328	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151330	I would like to send it in writing to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, which changes took place on 3 February 2014, if that is not known to the questioner. This is something which, as a member of parliament, you can have some interest in, i.e. where different things are located. So it may also be relevant to keep an eye on what is going on in the case of resort changes; it is typical in the case of government raffles that such events take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151355	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151357	It is obviously also too bad that I have not noticed, which may be because I was not an environmental rapporteur at the time, and then you may be looking for other things; I should not be able to say that. So I would like to have it in writing, and then I must also ask some other questions in writing, I can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151412	The Minister for the Environment. No, there's nothing else. Then it's the case that sir... Kim Christiansen will have the opportunity to ask the last question on question 14.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151422	Now the Minister is puffing himself up a little and saying that we should of course be aware of what happens to changes in government raffles. Then I would say that it is at least really difficult to have an overview of it if there have been resort changes every time there has been a government raid. But there's gonna be a shower of questions. In conclusion, I would like to ask because I didn't get an answer on whether the Minister for the Environment would bother to cross over to the West Coast and look at this pipe attempt for self-view or just want to lean blindly on a flawed report from two professors.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151459	But I have no further comment to make on what I have said here before. So, that method has been tested from 2005 to 2008, and the conclusion has been that it has not been an appropriate method on this stretch. However, as I said at the outset, I am actually open to discussing various methods of coastal protection. I am glad to make up for all kinds of input in the coastal analysis; that is also something I think is important in relation to this analysis: that we include the experience that has been gained, also in other countries. In this way, of course, we will also look at what has happened in the Netherlands, where, among other things, we have to look at what has happened in the Netherlands. I've also had some experience with these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151538	That was question 14. So I can say thank you to both the Minister for the Environment and Mr. Kim Christiansen. We move on to Question 15. It's a new minister, the tax minister, and it's also a new questioner, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151551	Thank you for the floor. The question is as follows: why does the government not create a permanent border and customs control with installations and customs officials, which would really be an intelligent and effective border control?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151606	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151608	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you for the question. One might say that there is at least a difference between how the questioner and how the government defines the concept of intelligent, I think, in this context and how intelligent controls are to be carried out. The customs controls that are being carried out today mean that Denmark, in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, is carrying out effective customs controls. It is based on a mobile, flexible and intelligence-based effort. The government sees no reason to change that, because it is now to use the wording of the questioner's own words, precisely what is intelligent border and customs control, where SKAT takes care of the tasks relating to the control of goods, primarily in relation to customs, VAT and taxes, and the police take care of personal control, compliance with the law on traffic, the law on foreigners, etc. The cooperation of both authorities is based precisely on the above mentioned mobile, intelligent intelligence-based approach, which at the same time produces good results and is unpredictable for those who do not comply with the rules, those who do not comply with EU rules. I know that SKAT is constantly working to develop the existing cooperation with relevant ministries, with relevant authorities, for example. It is also very important that foreign authorities and the European Union should be involved. The focus is therefore on SKAT having the best possible decision-making base and being able to make the best possible analyses so that the effort can be optimized, and the resources are used precisely where they have an effect. The work and not least cooperation across authorities, cooperation across countries combined with SKAT's work with e.g. mobile teams and the use of scanners make the effort exactly what the author is asking for, namely intelligent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151809	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151812	Now that I am asking the question of really intelligent border controls, it is not only because we in the DF are intelligent and have a lot of visions and ideas about how to make border controls more effective, it is also to get an answer, an intelligent answer, because there has not been an answer to what I am asking. The government has made a check on border areas with license plate scanners and various other things. What we are asking is: why not set up a border facility? Why don't customs officers be put at the border? The only right place, the most intelligent place to control, is at the borders. It's self-evident. And then everything else, I totally understand, can come on top of that. We don't say either-or, we say both-and. We'd like the whole palette. I assume that when the government presents a proposal now for border control it should not be called the border, because in Schengenutopia there are no borders, it must be because the government considers it a problem that it has seen that there is a shortage and therefore starts to tighten up on this area. So we just ask: why not take the step fully, why not create a really intelligent border control and then put some customs officials at the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218151939	In fact, I replied very, very precisely to the question put by the questioner, namely, by stating precisely that it is not intelligent to leave some customs officials at the border itself, but rather to let customs officers and our employees at the SKAT make the effort needed to identify the challenges that exist, to identify where goods are being smuggled in. It has to be said that it also produces results. A good example was given when SKAT seized a very large shipment of illegal cigarettes from a container ship. So that would not have happened if the customs officers had been on the border, we should say hello. The cigarettes, which were hidden in a container with 14 containers to resemble water heaters, had just been found on the basis of information from abroad combined with a risk assessment carried out by SKAT's customs surveillance system. Look, it's intelligent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152032	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152033	Well, I'm delighted every time customs manage to get a good catch of illegal goods. Believe me, I really do. But that's not what I'm saying. I'm not saying it can't happen either. I'm just asking why you don't have any customs officers down there. Moreover, I cannot understand at all, and it is such a source of surprise that the proposal made by the government has not provided more money. I do not understand any of this, because I believe that the government is also taking this problem of cross-border crime seriously. So I can't believe there's no more money set aside. But leave it alone. The government's gonna have to deal with that. I just ask: why can we not, beyond what we do in advance, have some customs officers down there who can control the people who cross the border? They are smugglers, people carrying illegal goods, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152125	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152127	It is very true that SKAT has to deal precisely with our tasks, and it is precisely to find the goods that may be smuggled in. After all, we are not dealing with police action. However, I would like to refer the questioner to the answer to the general question put by the Committee on Taxation, Question 557 which is based precisely on what it will actually cost, namely in the order of 1,000 years' work, if we are to move towards what the questioner has said. This is, of course, a very considerable cost, especially in view of the fact that what turns out to have an effect is the intelligent intelligence-based effort. That is where we find the cigarettes that are being smuggled into water containers or in something similar to water containers. That's exactly what we're going for. That is where there is something contraband to find, and not where we can just stand and look at some passing empty cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152224	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152226	Everything is, of course, about money, and there must be money for things • we are fully aware of that in the Danish People's Party. But we ask it because it is a source of wonder. Among other things: After all, the police and customs could work much closer together. One could, of course, establish real cooperation, which was to replace each other in the various areas. To look for empty cars, I would say that I do not think that is right. There are some who have produced customs officials as fat, as if customs officers are such a little stupid, a little thick and a little lazy, but that is not my attitude to it. I think the customs officers are incredibly good, and in a very short moment they can see what it is that is going through and say: hey, there is something that we need to have looked at, we are pulling them to the side, and then we will see what it is. I think that would be excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152320	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152323	When I highlight an example of a very large catch, about which I have not heard anyone from the Danish People's Party cheering about, while I was very happy about it, also in the public space, it is of course because it is an excellent example, excellent example of something that does not come over, for example, the Danish-German or Danish-Swedish border. In other words, regardless of how many people there are, I can confirm the questioner that many of SKAT's employees are extremely agile by our employees who might be at the border, they would not find the water containers in question with the many, many cigarettes which would be brought into the market and which are, of course, one of the things we need to find precisely and to which we need to make a determined effort. That is what intelligent control is all about, that is to say we have to catch, we have to hit, and above all we have to hit the perpetrators who commit the criminal acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152417	I say thank you to the tax minister, and I say thank you to Mr. Simpson. Christian Langballe. That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150218152424	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 19 February 2015, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
