ParlaMint-DK_20150410100001	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 163 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a single entry into the public sector via the public service of the municipalities). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150410100025	The debate is open. Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410100047	Thank you. L 180, which we are discussing here this morning, comes about a number of things. The draft law provides for an extension and an adjustment of the current scheme for grants for inclusion in free schools, and the draft law also proposes a new scheme for grants for special education in the free schools. In addition, the draft law provides, among other things: the free vocational schools also have the possibility of holding on an experimental basis individual examinations in Danish and mathematics corresponding to the primary school's final examination. The Left is largely in favour of the proposal. We believe that it is sensible to extend the current system of grants for inclusion in free schools. This will help to provide a better basis for a permanent solution in this area in 2016. The Left is also in favour of the government's proposal for a new system of subsidies for special education in free schools. After all, this is an area on which we have been very attentive in the Blue Block, and for us in the Left it is important that pupils in need of special education also have a free choice of school. Unfortunately, they do not quite have that today, and it does not seem that this bill will quite solve it, but it is, after all, a step in the right direction. It is also important for the Left that we give the free vocational schools the opportunity to hold individual examinations in Danish and mathematics. It is of course essential that more pupils from the free vocational schools are given the opportunity to enter vocational training, and this is only possible with an average of the character 2 of Danish and mathematics in particular. I would like to take this opportunity today to also dig a little deeper into the challenge of the grant for special education in free schools. Free schools have long been influenced by rules in the area of special education, which make it difficult for these schools to take up pupils in need of extra support. The free schools can apply for grants for special education from a pool; a pool drawn from the current grant to the free schools. This pool covers only part of the costs of special education. This means that many of the free schools, as they are here and now, have to find themselves a lot of money to have the opportunity at all to take up pupils with special needs. As I have said, this is a great challenge for these schools, and we therefore hope that this will be the Minister's statement that the motion for a resolution tabled by a single blue bloc before Easter, which was dealt with in this Chamber, is one of the things that the Minister and the Ministry will also be digging further into in order to find a solution to. In the blue block, we think it is crucial that we address this problem and that these financial obstacles are removed so that these pupils can actually be admitted to free schools, and we look forward to following that on the part of the minister. In the Left we think it is positive that it is now being opened up that the free vocational schools can hold examinations in Danish and mathematics, as I mentioned earlier, and we are also positive that this is a test system so that we can keep an eye on the system and possibly adjust things along the way, so that it will fit in the best possible way with the students of the free vocational schools. As I said, the Left is in favour of this bill. We are, of course, sorry that in this round the government is not ready to look at solving the problem of the economy in relation to special education, but we will have to resolve that in the next round, which the Minister has also given his word on. So the Left can support the L 180.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410100511	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Annette Lind as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410100520	It is a clear objective of the Social Democratic Party to ensure a good and safe school day for children and young people. We know that education is an important prerequisite for doing well in life and we know that it is of great importance to our society. That is why we also have the ambition of the best educated generation in Danish history. The importance of education is something that applies to everyone, of course also to our children and young people with special needs. This is a task that all schools must play a part in jointly lifting. That is why I have also looked forward to the draft law here today, which makes the grant for special education in the free basic and boarding schools more unbureaucratic. By means of a taximeter model, we ensure fixed tariffs, and this provides a safety for schools with more predictability and flexibility to organise special education, and also takes into account those schools which have a special educational profile. This gives less paperwork to both schools and the public sector, and that is just the right way to go. Compared to all the work we are doing, where more children with special needs are included in the community and taught in general education, I am also pleased that the draft law here extends and adjusts the current grant scheme for free schools. This will allow us to gain a little more experience of inclusion before we begin an evaluation. Finally, the bill includes the right for free primary schools to hold individual examinations in Danish and mathematics. As I started out by saying, the importance of getting an education in the backpack cannot be exaggerated. With the reform of vocational education and training, we have proposed that much more should go a skilled way, but we also make demands on young people. That is why I am pleased to see that with this proposal we are opening up more opportunities to ensure that young people, both with and without special needs, can come to the test in Danish and mathematics. The Socialists therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410100710	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410100730	The draft law deals with special education in the free schools, the post-schools and the free vocational schools. It improves conditions for them. A temporary grant scheme will be extended to 2016, after which a taximeter model will take over in 2017. Today, the free schools receive money by sending an application for each individual student who needs special education, i.e. a kind of letter economy. From now on, they will be allocated money per year. pupils according to objective criteria, i.e. a kind of modern operating economy. The basis of calculation will be known student numbers prior to the financial year, and the rates will be set by the Finance Act. The schools can thus better plan and have their means of accommodating special pupils. We have had the Minister in the Chamber on this in the past, and that led to her inviting the free school associations for talks, and the bill is the result of these talks, and that is a good thing. At the same time, some funds are reserved for free schools with a special special education profile. They must be approved on application and have at least 13 special pupils. It has been a wish from some parents and free schools in Funen that one among others. could do something that looks like this. In addition, free vocational schools are given the right to hold a single examination in Danish and mathematics as the primary school's 9th and 10th grade examinations, and this will make it easier for them to get their pupils on a vocational training course, which we all want more pupils to do because they can run their courses as a whole. They are also allowed to experiment where the students can settle for the 9th-class test in Danish and mathematics. The free vocational schools believe that it will motivate more pupils to take a vocational training course, and I and the Danish People's Party look forward to seeing whether they will succeed. The Danish People's Party will vote in favour of the bill at third reading because it improves the opportunities for free schools, which escapes well with our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410100937	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Helle Mølvig Mølvig as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410100950	Thank you. On behalf of the usual rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here, I should like to make his speech on L 180. We Radicals can support the proposal, which we think is very good. This is mainly due to the new system of grants for special education in free primary schools, free vocational schools and post-schools, so we give schools a better framework for dealing with this group of pupils who are having a hard time. It means a great deal to us Radicals that the various schools support the proposal and we welcome the fact that schools become closely involved in the future administration of grants, as it will be their own distribution secretariat, which will be responsible for a large part of the administration. It is a declaration of confidence, one must say. The Minister deserves great praise for having involved in the process the many different school associations that are interested in this bill. It is also good that the temporary scheme for inclusion grants is extended so that we can have a much better experience to carry out the evaluation. Last but not least, we Radicals welcome the fact that the free vocational schools are given the right, with this proposal, to hold individual courses in mathematics and Danish on their general courses. However, we would have liked it to be all pupils in general courses, and not only those with an average of less than 02, who had the opportunity to take the individual examinations, now that they are attending the general course and are following the course. However, we will follow up on this when the scheme is to be evaluated in a few years' time. Overall, therefore, we think that this is a very fine legislative proposal which we can warmly support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101123	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101130	Both primary and free primary schools must be able to accommodate and include all children and young people, including those with special needs, and it is therefore also important that we make children and young people with special needs as much as possible part of ordinary education. It is not only in primary school that inclusion needs to be improved; a number of free primary schools are obviously financially challenged because they only cover 71 per cent. of expenditure per year students, so that it becomes more difficult to carry out the tasks that must be in relation to pupils with special needs. Fortunately, many of the free primary schools are still doing the job, but it is a pity that some schools have to reject children with special needs involuntarily. One of the objectives of inclusion is that children and young people with special needs should freely have the same opportunities as other children and young people to choose what kind of school suits them. Therefore, we in the SF are very pleased with the first part of the bill, namely that the grant scheme is extended until the end of 2016. In relation to the second part of the draft law, which deals with the introduction of a new system of grants for special education and other social pedagogical assistance in free primary, secondary and free vocational schools, I would say that we are also positive. As it is right now, there is a lot of administration associated with special offers, so a simplified grant scheme will be a great help to schools. As mentioned by the Children's Council in the hearing answers, simplification of the grant scheme will ultimately benefit children, as schools will be more able to use the resources of teaching rather than administrative work. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101308	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Rosa Lund as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101316	Thank you. I will start by revealing that we in the Enhedslisten also support this bill, and we do so primarily because the bill opens up the possibility for free vocational schools to run tests in Danish and mathematics, which hopefully will mean that there will be more of their students who will be able to start and complete vocational training. I think it is nice when the parties behind the vocational school reform and the government parties create a character wall for vocational education on the grade 2 that they then also take a little responsibility for those pupils who may not have done so well in primary school or who have not had the easiest way through primary school, so that they can also have the opportunity to test if they are fortunate enough to attend a free vocational school. And that's why Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101409	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Merete Riisager as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101416	In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that parents of children with special needs should have a free choice of school exactly like all other parents, and this means that the resources allocated to a child in a municipality should be able to follow the child one to a hero into the classroom, even if parents choose a free or private school. This bill adjusts to the current system, which means that there is a pool which is allocated within the funds already allocated to free schools. This means that it is still the other children in the free school who have to finance the special education given to children with special needs, and that is obviously not the most optimal solution. It is the case that the free schools receive a couple rate of 71. This government has reduced the coupling rate, despite the fact that it promised to stop the decline in the coupling rate. This means, overall, that there is less money out there for the children of free and private schools, but also for children with special needs. At the same time, we see a reform of primary school which actually makes it harder to accommodate many children with special needs, which means that around the families where they have children with special needs, they also look at where else they could find an offer that suits their very child. Because in many places there is so much unrest in the primary school classes because you have to meet all kinds of demands for movement and contact with the local football club and up and down the stairs, and educators and teachers and in and out, and what do I know? In the blue block we made a resolution on children with special needs. Anni Matthiesen from the Left did a huge legwork in relation to that motion for a resolution. It was completely defeated by the government. And this is one of the cases in which it has to be said that social responsibility suffers when it becomes more important that free schools do not get it too easily than that those children with special needs get the help they need. The legislative proposal on the table is an adjustment of the existing system. One might say that this is a debureaucratisation on some points. We can support that, but we just have to say that, for our part, the task has not been solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101648	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101656	Thank you. The bill here contains an extension and some adjustments to the grant scheme for the inclusion of free primary schools. The temporary arrangement is hereby extended from 1 August 2015 to 31 December 2016. It also provides for a new system of grants for special education and other special educational assistance in free primary, post-secondary and free vocational schools. This means that in future, a subsidy will now be granted in the form of a tariff per tonne. pupils receiving special education. The changes will have the advantage for schools that this taximeter model provides some kind of budgetary security; at least it gives a certainty about what economy you have to work with based on the student numbers you have. This, of course, makes it possible to organise the best possible measures for the best interests of students and also to budget better. This will also mean administrative simplification for schools, as applications for each student will no longer have to be submitted. Simplifications and less bureaucracy are rarely opposed to this in the Conservative People's Party, so we welcome it. In addition, there are also some changes in relation to the right of free vocational schools to hold a single subject examination in Danish and mathematics as the 9th and 10th class exams of the primary school. There is no economic impact on the draft law because all change takes place within the already known framework. However, there will be some economic changes for some of the schools; for some it will be in a positive direction, for others there may also be a decrease in relation to the amounts they receive today. However, from a holistic perspective, the possibility of simplifying a bureaucratic system outweighs the negative changes that some will unfortunately experience. All in all, however, some fine changes and new initiatives that the Conservative People's Party can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101853	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410101903	I would like to thank all the parties that support the bill. It is also a proposal that has been discussed thoroughly with the schools associations for free primary schools, for post-schools and for free vocational schools. An incredible amount of work has been done to ensure that free schools can also help to lift it in the best possible way, that we want primary schools which, whether they are primary schools or free primary schools, are based on the fact that we are a country where all children must be able to get as good a schooling as possible. There are some who need some extra support of one kind or another, and if it is at all possible to give them that support while they are with their comrades, it is the very best learning environment, and with the bill that lies here, a model has been created which means that it is both less bureaucratic and easier for the free primary schools to organise different types of support for the benefit of the individual learner. So thank you for the support for the preparatory work done with the free schools' associations, because it is an incredibly important agenda, how we make a school offer based on the fact that all children, whether they choose primary or free primary schools, can receive the necessary support without necessarily being separated into a completely different school offer, unless that is the very best thing for them with the very special needs they may have. I am also pleased that this draft law has made it possible to take into account, not least, what we also carried out in a broad agreement with a boost to vocational training. It is, of course, the case that an admission requirement of at least 2 has been introduced, and that is because we could see that too many young people were unfortunately starting on a basic course of vocational training which did not have at least 2 in Danish and mathematics with them, and that 75%. of them unfortunately dropped out already during the initial course. There is also an obligation to help young people on their way so that they can get the professional in their luggage, so that they can also apply for and start and carry out vocational training. That is why I think it is extremely important that we succeeded in finding a model in which both free vocational schools and special post-secondary schools can now also offer professional examinations in the subjects of Danish and mathematics, and I also hear from the various parties that there is broad support for us to ensure that, of course, there is also a road for young people who may not, as I think Enhedslisten said, have had a straight way through the education system. So in those words, I would like to thank you for your broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102125	There is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102128	Thank you. I just need to ask the minister something. Is it correct to understand that this bill redistributes the existing funds in a different way, i.e. that it is still within the limits of the funds provided, the 71 per cent that are allocated on average to each child in the free and private schools, and that no new funds are given?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102149	It is true that no new money is being given but that it is being changed. Now it is the case that the whole system of special education has been in a very different way from the way it has been in the primary school. After all, a pool has been found within the existing funds that were available. What is decided to change here is how to access that pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102210	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102212	But is it not also true that for children with special needs who go to a free school, it must also be assumed that the framework conditions are much lower, since children in free schools on average only get 71 per cent? of what children in primary school get, while children in primary school with special needs can also be allocated other funds? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102234	No, that is not true; I think it would be excellent if the Liberal Alliance put a committee question on it. But it is the case that the economy in the free primary schools consists partly of the switching rate, that is, so and so many percent of the average price of a primary school pupil, and it is true that it is 71 per cent. It is a cut which V, K and O adopted when they were sitting in government that O did not, but they voted for it and that is the reduction that is now there. But in addition to that, the free primary schools have parental payments, so it is an overall economy that you look at in relation to the free primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102309	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102324	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102343	Thank you, President. Since the rapporteur of the Left was unable to be present in the Chamber today, I have promised to read the speech on her behalf. With the reform of the primary school, the primary school has been given a much needed professional boost. There are several hours in important subjects such as Danish and mathematics, and there are also previous teachings in foreign languages. The professional objectives have also been raised. The students in the eighth grade must now be able to do what the students in the ninth grade should previously be able to do. At the same time, a more flexible organisation has also been opened up. For example: the opportunities for team sharing have been strengthened and the school managers are given more self-determination. When such major changes occur in the organisation and teaching of the primary school, it is also necessary to further develop the primary school's tests. They have been up-to-date and effective, and this bill must help to ensure that this is the case. In concrete terms, it is proposed to introduce a new basic practical oral joint test in the subjects physics/chemistry, biology and geography in the 9th grade. This test shall act as a substitute for the present test in the subject of physics/chemistry. At the same time, a new written test is introduced in the subject of physics/chemistry, which is to be included in the group of extracting subjects in the specialized field of science. The sample shall be taken in line with the samples in the current field biology and geography. The new tests will support the high level of professionalism of the primary school reform and more varied education. It is, of course, important that specific professional knowledge is at the forefront. But it is also important that the students experience natural subjects as a single subject that provides some basic scientific skills. Therefore, it is beneficial that the students should get up in a joint test in physics/chemistry, biology and geography. Hopefully, this can also lead to more people becoming interested in natural sciences and to more taking on a scientific education. It has been important for the Left that we did not lose professionalism in the search for a new form of examination. Therefore, it has been important for the Left to have extraction tests in physics/chemistry. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the new samples, a 5-year evaluation project will be launched between 2015 and 2020. The project will include: include an evaluation by 2020 of the joint test. In addition, it is also proposed that the current assessment system for the written examinations of the primary school should be amended. In future, written tests shall only be assessed by one examiner. This eliminates the present system whereby both censors and teachers participate in the evaluation. This ensures a more effective assessment system. On this point, it has been important for the Left to ensure that the assessments are correct. That is why the Left welcomes the initiatives to support the censors so that they can retain their skills with courses, etc. Finally, the draft law also proposes a number of minor changes to the composition of school boards. Overall, the position of the Left is that these changes help to further develop the primary school's tests in a positive direction. The Left therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102719	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102729	I should like to start by welcoming the radical rapporteur, who cannot be here, and therefore I am speaking on behalf of her. With this bill, we are addressing a legislative proposal that will help to create an even better framework for our common primary school. That is why I have also looked forward to the treatment here today. A strong primary school is, of course, essential for us to have a welfare society that we can safeguard, but also to develop if we want to ensure that there remains a good school for all. The primary school must be a school where our children become more skilled, where the social background does not determine the children's future and where there is room to develop their talents and where the students have a good school day and thrive. But an important part of primary school is of course also the final examinations, although it may not necessarily be the most important part and the most preferred part of the students. The tests must be developed in line with time, which is why, as you know, we have also been engaged in a number of initiatives to further develop and modernise the tests. With the bill here on a joint test in physics/chemistry, biology and geography, we are taking the science of primary school into a more practical, interdisciplinary and modern framework, which also follows from the new common goals. I believe that, overall, this can stimulate interest in the scientific world in even more students, and it is therefore important to motivate more young people along these lines. At the same time, the form of assessment is changed by means of a written test, so that in future only an appointed examiner is responsible for the assessment. With this we release teaching time that teachers can spend with the students instead. With the changes it is, of course, absolutely essential that we continue to have a degree of certainty as regards the assessment, and that is why it is also good and sensible, among other things, for us. the actions of a censor corps with which the examiners can spar and advise, with anonymised tasks and indicative character descriptions. Both the Social Democrats and the Radical Left support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102923	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410102931	Thank you, President. The draft law is about three things: firstly, it is about an oral joint test; secondly, it is about a appointed state censor instead of two censors; and thirdly, it is about a change in parental representation on school boards. Today there is an oral test in the subject of physics/chemistry, but in future it is replaced by an oral test in the subjects of physics/chemistry, biology and geography with the weighting 44 per cent, 31%. and 25%. The student is tested in all three subjects for the test, and the goal is to make the tests more realistic and make the students more interested in natural subjects. At the same time, the written physics/chemistry test becomes a field subject, and it is not today. There may be two lecturers and a examiner for the test. The test is voluntary for schools in 2015 and 2016, but fixed from the following year onwards. It will all be evaluated in 2020 and then followed by a research group. On the second point, I would like to say that, in the case of written tests, apart from the self-righteous tests, there must in future be a public censor. The teacher is left out, the answers are made anonymous and you get a number and this is done to ensure objectivity. In order to ensure uniformity, indicative character descriptions are prepared. Annual courses will be held for censors, looking at responses and discussing assessment criteria. I had asked for an expert consultation with researchers to clarify the changes to the law and, in the light of that consultation, the proposal was adjusted, which means: firstly, the examiners are put together in groups of up to five to spar professionally so that they can draw on each other in case of doubt. They also need to establish technical cooperation in order to set a certain level. Secondly, a complaint results in a new censor. Thirdly, an evaluation will take place after two years. Fourthly, a follow-up group will be set up to draw up a report. Fifthly, testing skills will be required for the appointment of examiners, indicative character descriptions, annual censor courses and evaluation meetings after the examinations have been carried out. The third of the draft law is a small change on school boards, in which parents of children who are admitted to an extended school freetime scheme are allowed from the third year to elect a parent representative to the school board. Finally, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party is opposed to group tests. The Test Order is the Minister's responsibility and therefore also the Minister's domain. In connection with this bill, we had it done voluntarily, at least we persuaded the Minister to do so voluntarily for the student, whether the student wants a group test or wants to go up to the test alone. This is written into the legislative notes, although it is not part of the draft law, and it is customary, but we are therefore not taking a position on the group test itself in connection with this bill, as it is the responsibility of the Minister. As I have said, the Danish People's Party is opposed to group tests and will of course encourage the government and the minister to drop group tests, but as it is her responsibility, we can do nothing but quietly say it to the minister over and over again. The Danish People's Party will await the committee before we give our final opinion on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103334	There is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103338	Thank you. The Danish People's Party is not usually particularly enthusiastic about interdisciplinaryism. But what about this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103351	These are some things we must have looked at in committee and that is why we are not taking a final position on it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103358	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103359	But the very essence of this bill is that you do further interdisciplinary work, you even make a test that is multidisciplinary, and it has been dissuaded by some of the teachers who are in this area. So can you imagine that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of a bill which gives further interdisciplinaryness in the primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103421	The Physics and Chemistry Teachers have been critical of the bill, and the other lecturers in biology and geography have been very positive. An evaluation report has been produced which has shown good results and also increased professionalism, because these interdisciplinary tests work back on the subjects, in that they are more realistic and more practically oriented, whereas today they are actually relatively abstract and theoretical. So in this way, the experiments that have been carried out with the interdisciplinary tests have had an improved effect on the subjects, and these are the sort of things we should have just asked about, and that is why we are not taking a position on it today, but it is a relevant question to include. I would just like to point out that the subjects are continuing; it is the exam itself that is becoming multidisciplinary, so that you can cooperate and perhaps thus clarify some things. Natural science is today very multidisciplinary; biology and physics reach into each other. However, these are the sort of things that we would just like to clarify in the course of the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103530	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as SF's rapporteur, because there was no radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103549	Denmark is a knowledge-based country, and it is the primary school that forms the basis for the knowledge and knowledge needed for our citizens to be able to cope in life. We need to ensure the best possible starting point for our students all the time, so that they have the best possible starting point for the future. For this reason, the professional tests must, of course, also reflect and harmonize with a modern form of teaching and meet the challenges of time and the future. SF is therefore particularly pleased with the introduction of a new and different practical oral joint test in the subjects physics/chemistry, biology and geography, because this test form is intended to expose the students to realistic natural subjects, and so hopefully the students are motivated to deal with these subjects in their further education and working life. In addition, such a joint test supports interdisciplinaryism, which is increasingly a requirement for many educational institutions and in a modern labour market. In relation to the last part of the proposal which goes on to try with written answers of the 9th and 10th grade levels in the future alone is judged by one state-appointed censor, it might be wise to evaluate this after a short period of time, because it cannot be avoided that the use of external censors is safe against major deviations in character. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103703	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103710	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we are very positive about the first part of the bill, which we believe will strengthen the interdisciplinary nature of the subjects, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. As a primary school student said to me the day before yesterday, the world is evolving, and so is the primary school. I think it's nice if we start thinking in different test forms and more interdisciplinary in primary school. As I said, we can support that part of the bill. Then there's the other part of the bill that we're worried about. Just as many of the consultation parties are, we are also very concerned about what this will mean for the student's legal certainty; what it will mean for the student's right to a fair judgment is that it is now said that it should only be a censor. And I think that in the draft law we need a reason why it is a good idea to do it this way. I would just like the Minister to reply to that before we finally take a position on the bill in the Enhedslisten. However, as I said, the first part of the legislative proposal is very positive. As far as the second part of the draft law is concerned, I think we need some good explanations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103834	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Merete Riisager as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410103842	Thank you. Folkeskole is in a crisis of professionalism. I have said this many times from this platform, and something tells me that I am going to say it many times, and I am doing so for as long as it goes on. There were problems already in the primary school before this reform of the primary school was rolled out, but everything else just got much bigger with this reform of the primary school, which has been withdrawn. We have seen an increase in non-teachers who carry out the teaching. There has been a sharp increase in temporary employment. The focus is on movement, which the government's own investigation has shown does not necessarily result in an improved cognition. There is a practice relationship in teaching that there is no scientific evidence to suggest that children will be better qualified. At the same time, there are some objectives that go on skills, while at the same time the resources put into the reform have nothing to do with skills. We see an increase in demotivation among teachers, increased unrest, and if there is something you know with certainty from research, then it is that increased unrest leads to a lower level of professionalism. All these things together mean a less professional focus, and one can expect that there will also be a professional dive after this primary school reform has been implemented. You can already hear both some of the professionals who have been through, and also politicians say that this is what you could expect and that it will just take a few years and then it will be all right. I just have to say that I have been working on the process of change in large companies, and I do not know any companies that would accept, it can be said that production went down dramatically for a number of years as a result of a process of change. Then implementation is carried out in a way that does not destroy production. And now it is not nuts we are talking about here, but real children who are missing out on good education. So increased interdisciplinaryness is not what is needed right now. There is no problem in relationing things to the outside world, but the extent of all these new initiatives goes beyond the academic level of the primary school, and it is sad to note that both Left and Conservative and perhaps even DF support this bill, which is therefore just another problem among many. The Enhedslisten says that something new must also happen in primary school. That's something you hear a lot. I just want to say that the educational tradition that this bill is leaning on is about a hundred years old, so that is not such burning news. The Russian educator Makarenko ended it right after the Russian revolution. So let us now say that we are at least dealing with a pedagogical tradition which has a few years on the back, so it cannot be said that it is so new again. But the teachers out there are in a situation where they want to create good professional education, and the extent of reform educational initiatives has become so extensive that it is really difficult to carry out good professional education. It is difficult for school managers to carry out their duties. It can be said that the need of politicians for something new to happen has become so extensive that it is difficult to go to school now. It has to be said that the need for something new to happen is not the need for children. It's the needs of the adults. It's the adults who think it's exciting about something new. When you're 6 years old and you start school, school is new. Then everything's new. And when you start the next year, something new happens. So this whole need to constantly make changes and take educational traditions that are not new and make more centralist projects is therefore an adult project. It's not a children's project. So the Liberal Alliance is voting against this bill and we simply want the primary school to have some more freedom, quite simply. They need time to go to school. They need time to focus on the essentials: good professional education. And then, of course, you can relate to practice if it makes sense where you're out there. So it's not something we have to decide from in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410104248	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410104258	Thank you. With this bill, we're changing some of the elementary school tests. We do this because we want to send young people out of primary school so that they are ready for the challenges of further education and working life. Based on that desire, we joined forces in the Folkeskole society in the autumn of 2014 and agreed on 12 initiatives to make the Folkeskole's tests more up-to-date and realistic. With this change of law, we are now introducing a bottom-up oral joint test in physics/chemistry, biology and geography in the 9th grade. It is as a substitute for the current practical oral test alone in physics/chemistry. At the same time, we then introduce a new written test in physics/chemistry, so that we continue to focus on some of the specific and necessary skills that are in the subject of physics/chemistry. We want to create an interest in the natural sciences without compromising on the specific subject. There is also a change in the proposal in relation to the fact that in future there will be only one state censor to judge written examinations in the 9th and 10th classes. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party explained that part very well, so I will not go into it further. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill. We think it is good to raise awareness and interest in the natural areas, not least in order to motivate more young people to look in this direction when they choose youth education and higher education and also, ultimately, work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410104429	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410104437	I would like to thank you for your broad support. Almost all parties are responsible for constantly developing test forms at school that are as relevant and realistic as possible. There are many reasons why you try. It is, of course, to assess the students' core academic knowledge, as well as to sense knowledge, as it is formulated against the common goals. It's like what's the whole professional foundation of our school. And, of course, it is also doing so in some ways, testing the range of competences that you need to carry with you in life, in the first place further in youth education and, at some point, also further into working life and as a citizen. Therefore, this alone is a legislative proposal in relation to the test forms that are introduced and which require legislative changes. It is true, as several people have said, that it is on the basis of a great and good work, which has looked at how we can think all around in modernised test forms, and there are 12 concrete initiatives that have been launched. And this is what requires a change of law. I would like to say a little about the first, which is about a new bottom-up oral joint test in physics/chemistry, biology and geography. When it is important to open up this possibility, it is precisely because, as a number of actors have pointed out, there are the new revised common objectives which, of course, strengthen the various core academic elements of the natural sciences, but they also note that they are linked. Let us take just one example of some of the things that rightly fill a lot in the public debate. That is how we go in and solve some of the challenges that are in relation to climate and energy. This requires a range of deep core scientific competences in order to solve some of the issues. But of course this also presupposes that we not only see it in different professionalities, but that we actually put those skills at risk to each other. This is how you work project- and product-oriented out there in the real world, and it must also be reflected in the training that students at school should carry with them. And there is no contradiction between either core professionalism or interdisciplinaryism. There is no doubt that students must learn the different subjects, but they must also learn where it makes sense to risk them in relation to each other. This is what happens with the new tied practical oral joint test in physics/chemistry, biology and geography. I would just like to make one comment to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, because it is quite true that we have a continuous discussion among the parties in the public school circle. Fortunately, there is a great deal we stand together about to give the academic boost to the primary school that the primary school and the pupils deserve, but there has been a long disagreement over the possibility of giving group examinations or not. It is absolutely true that at the end of the day it is the minister who can look at whether or not there should be group tests. It is part of the test notice, and if it is to be amended, it is a change of notice that is needed. It is really just to acknowledge that we know that the Danish People's Party does not support group tests, so this is ultimately a choice from the Minister, that is that we want to give the opportunity. It is an old discussion that has been here. And it is just to stress it for those who have to listen that it is the case that even if there is a joint test, individual characters are given. But when we think it is a good idea also to open up the possibility of joint tests, it is because we can look at a large number of experiments in development work, that it is motivating for the students and that they simply become more able to demonstrate the knowledge that lies in the different subjects, when one can also work in relation to a common test. But once again I would like to stress that it is an individual character that is given. It will then be supplemented by the debate which has taken place in the conciliation circle, and it will also be an excerpt test, as has also been said here, namely a self-righteous test in physics/chemistry, precisely to be sure that we are also always aware that this is also about having the core competences. In addition, a new assessment system is also introduced so that the written tests will in future be assessed by one state appointed examiner. The Enhedslisten has asked some questions about this: Can you now be sure of the legal certainty of the students if there is only one state appointed censor? It is the case that the right of appeal will not be changed by this bill, so students can continue to complain. And it is for the Danish People's Party: it is true that we have had discussions here too and have had different people to make us wiser, also in the conciliation circle, and on the basis of the group of experts requested by the Danish People's Party, there are a number of things that we have supplemented with, precisely to be absolutely sure that what we are going to do is to make it clear that it is the intention that is an anonymised objective assessment of the task that lies. Moreover, it is completely the same as when assessing tasks or tests in the gymnasium sector. But it's just to sketch out what's happened after, among other things. The Danish People's Party asked for it. That is that it is a system of one censor. It will be evaluated two years after the scheme enters into force. A follow-up group of professionals and a censor for each subject will be set up and this follow-up group will draw up a short report with assessments of the scheme so that it can be included in the ex post evaluation. And in general what we are doing now with the joint test in physics/chemistry, biology and geography is included in a 5-year evaluation and follow-up research programme. So I think that we are going with belts and belts to be absolutely sure of getting what we want, namely high professionalism, modern test forms, as close as possible, so that we can both assess the core subjects, but also the ability to put them at risk in relation to the real problems and challenges that young people have to learn to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105031	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105051	The debate is open. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105111	Thank you for the floor. The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution requiring the government to take five concrete initiatives which, in the view of the Enhedslisten, will promote inclusion. I would like to start by saying that we in the government cannot support the resolution, but it is not the same as that we do not think it is important to keep a close eye on inclusion. It is, of course, a discussion we have had for a long time, not only when we adopted the Inclusion Act, which was a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament behind it, but also at a number of meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Children's and Education, in consultation, on Wednesday issues, etc. For my experience is that we are all deeply concerned that we want to develop a school where children get the best possible learning environment, even if they should have diagnoses, and whether we talk Asperger's syndrome, add, strongly dyslexic or otherwise. However, if we can at all provide an opportunity for children to receive the necessary support in the educational environment in which they are living, then that is what provides the best learning for children. It rests among other things. We have been able to see for a long time without a political decision that more and more children have been separated from the common primary school into specialized environments. It has cost an incredible amount of money. At one point it has been up to 30%. of the general budget of the primary school, which was used for special education. It can then be said that if it turned out that those children really did have a much better way of carrying out youth education, then it is fair enough to discuss that perhaps that is what needs to be done. Unfortunately, however, we have been able to see from the studies that have been carried out that it has not been the good way forward to be separated from the common one, being in a special offer away from the common one. In fact, it has not given them much more opportunities to get a good educational path on. That is what has been the dilemma. That is why we have said with open eyes: we must rethink the way in which we help children to be strengthened as part of the general school environment. That is why this is also linked to the legislative proposal we have discussed here today, namely that free primary schools are also part of the common children's vision, because that is what it is all about, namely a common children's view: what is it necessary for very different children to have the best learning environment, regardless of whether you go to a primary school or a free primary school with the necessary support if you need it? It is also the case that there is now very good, real knowledge in this area. And one of the things that some of the research mappings have also been set in motion in connection with the law of inclusion and the resource centre that we have established through the Ministry of Education shows is that inclusion actually benefits all children's learning, i.e. when you apply the organizational methods and teaching methods that you know help to different children. It is of course very interesting that when you approach it correctly, it is both for the benefit of the children who need extra support, but it actually also gives a boost in relation to all the children who are part of the class. All in all, knowledge development and knowledge sharing are something that we have our eyes fixed on. This is reflected among other things. in the body of learning consultants who have worked for some time, and who are now part of the large team of learning consultants, where it is precisely about the fact that the knowledge that is constantly coming and being developed in relation to good inclusion-enhancing strategies comes all the way to classrooms, all the way to the individual teachers: knowledge about how to work with knowledge sharing across, and the development of professional resource individuals you can draw in relation to how to support children along the way. It is the case that in the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2015, the government and the KL have agreed that the municipalities must continue and strengthen the ongoing work in relation to a conversion, precisely so that the large amount of money spent alongside the common primary school is in keeping with the fact that more children become part of the common primary school so that the children can get the support needed so that teachers can get training and so that resource centres can be set up, etc. That is why it is also clear, and we are back in the 2011 agreement on the municipalities' economy, that municipalities will establish inclusion-enhancing governance models and work strategically with teachers' skills development and the use of staff skills for the benefit of all pupils. From the first progress report we have made on the basis of a representative survey in 12 municipalities, where we in the government and the KL have followed up on the inclusion efforts, we can see that the picture that is clear is that all municipalities prioritise the task of inclusion, but with differences, because that depends entirely on how the municipalities have dealt with the task in the past. Some have been very good at thinking in inclusion-enhancing learning strategies. They have come a long way, they have good experience with it. Others have done so, let me put it this way, in a very short time, very quickly and in a way where one might not be ready to carry out that task well enough. But there is no doubt that following it closely, both in relation to whether there is an economy that is coming back, and constantly sharing knowledge and going in with a special effort and helping the municipalities that are particularly in need of help, is the way in which we ensure that everyone becomes as skilled as possible to carry out the task, bearing in mind the needs of the children. To conclude, I would like to say that with the 2014 Finance Act, a total of 1 billion has been set aside. kr. in the period from 2014 to 2020 for strengthening skills development in primary school. Those are some means which, among other things, include: can be used to strengthen the skills of the employees in relation to included students. Moreover, the 2015 Finance Act also provides a pool of 25 million. kr. Annually from 2015 to 2017 to strengthen efforts to increase inclusion in primary school. The pool offers opportunities to make an effort for teachers and educators who have the greatest challenges in teaching pupils with special needs. With that, I just want to say again that I do not think we disagree with the intention. There may be different views on how it should be implemented, and that is why we do not support the Enhedslisten resolution. But we think it is important that we have the discussion all the time, because we are all deeply concerned that this should be successful for the benefit of the students.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105707	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105711	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. I understand from the Minister that the government is also very concerned about inclusion and that inclusion must succeed; I have to assume that. The minister says that the government is following closely both this with whether the money from the special education follows the student into the primary school and whether the teachers have the tools they need. I'm a little curious: what will the government do if it doesn't? So, you follow the inclusion closely, but if inclusion does not succeed in the individual school or in the municipalities, what will the government do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105800	In other words, in order to succeed in creating good inclusion, what the legislation can do is within the framework we created with the inclusion legislation. This means that if you need a certain number of hours of support, the task must be able to be solved at the individual school, but of course with the support that is needed for the individual child. If you need more support, it may be that it is another offer that needs to be made. If you as parents do not agree with this, there are remedies; that is what legislation can do. When I start this way, it's because it's all the other stuff sometimes that's what matters. And that is to have well-educated teachers and educators working together in the right way, which must be done differently, depending on whether it is a child who needs a screened learning environment. be a child with Asperger's syndrome, or it may be a strong dyslexic child, where it is about something with reading strategy etc. It is just to say that creating an educational environment for very different children requires different strategies, which are about having a really good practice in the individual schools. So what we are concerned with is constantly making knowledge sharing and sparring via the learning Consultant Corps together with the inclusion counsellors who are in the individual schools and who are in the municipalities. And if things go wrong and that's why we follow it closely, it's about getting to grips with the municipalities or the schools as quickly as possible and helping them to get right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105914	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105916	Thank you. In fact, I very much agree that different classes and different children require something different and different approaches. And that is why I am just a little curious to hear whether it is the Minister's opinion that where inclusion is not going so well, it is a matter of teachers and schoolteachers not being well trained, that is, that they lack some education in inclusion, or that they are a matter of framework. So, is it a question of there being too many students in the classes so that there isn't enough time for the individual student? So, is it a question of teachers' competences, or is it a question of the framework when it doesn't work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410105957	I would like to start by stressing that I think that we have come a very long way and are doing an extremely good job in the vast majority of municipalities and out in the vast majority of schools. When you cannot say 'yes' or 'no' to that question, it is because it may be different things. In some places it may be that the framework is not there for it, unfortunately. Elsewhere it may be that, depending on what it is for some children who attend that school, there have been some particular challenges. You can't give a clear answer. There is not one answer that fits all schools, and so there is not one political solution or one method that suits everyone. This really requires that we constantly develop knowledge about different teaching methods. This is among other things. therefore that we have the Resource Centre for Inclusion and Special Education. That is why we have expert groups. And that's why we share that knowledge through our learning consultants. This is the way to handle very different types of learning environments. I think it is encouraging that in the schools that are good at it it is not only for the benefit of the children who need extra support; it is in fact for the benefit of the whole class that teachers and educators can be used to diversify teaching methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110058	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Annette Lind as Social Democrat rapporteur (Anni Matthiesen Is it not me first?). Yes, it is. That is because the list of names has been corrected here. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110119	Thank you. Since, on this proposal, the rapporteur of the Left cannot be present, I have promised to read her speech. It is important for the Left that inclusion works well and is implemented in a sensible way. Implementation is also a response to the exclusion in the normal range, which has actually been going on for years. For many years there has been a narrowing of the concept of normality. Many students did not become the room of primary school. International comparisons showed that Denmark excluded much more pupils than countries with which we usually compare ourselves. Therefore, it was necessary to reverse the trend so that we again got as many students included as possible in the normal teaching. That is why we voted in favour of the law on increased inclusion, which is soon to be 3 years old. The only party that did not vote in favour at the time in 2012 was the Enhedslisten. They will then come forward today with a motion for a resolution which, according to them, will improve the inclusion effort. Although we as such agree with the Enhedslisten that good inclusion in primary school should be ensured, we in the Left cannot support the resolution. We believe that the 2012 law was a step in the right direction. It ensured that more pupils would be included in normal education. It must be made clear that this does not mean that pupils must be taught in exactly the same way. Of course, there must still be room for pupils with special needs to receive additional help within the framework of normal education. This is precisely why increased inclusion plays very well with the reform of the primary school. There has been an increase in the differentiation of teaching and the possibility that the teaching can be adapted to the individual pupil. Supportive teaching and homework cafes are very good opportunities for students to deal with the areas where they have problems and get help with them. But there are many new tasks for schools to pass on at once without a doubt. That is why it is important to keep the implementation under control, and we would have liked to see the implementation progressed better here. The government has kept part of the municipalities on minus growth, and it has left its mark on the primary school. Expenditure per Member State student under this government in the period from 2012 to 2013 decreased by an average of just under 2,000 DKK. per students, when looking at the net cost overall. In relation to the parties that promised massive investment in primary school before the last elections, it is strange that it has developed in this direction. However, there is no doubt about the Left's focus on inclusion. We are very aware that inclusion has not gone as well as it should. We have asked questions about this, including in the conciliation circle, and we will continue to focus on that from the Left. In addition, the Enhedslisten resolution here today is completely unfunded. No matter how much good intentions there may be behind the resolution, we cannot, of course, support a proposal that will launch expensive initiatives without indicating where the money will come from. Against this background, I must tell you that the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110502	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Annette Lind as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110510	Better late than never! Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for allowing us to discuss the important area of inclusion. We have just debated two legislative proposals which deal with our primary schools, both our common primary and private schools, and on the social democratic side we are always willing to discuss whether there is anything we can do better to ensure that our children and young people receive a really good education. Basically, we believe that it is good for our children to be part of the community. We know that children become more skilled and that it strengthens their social development when they are part of inclusive communities. And that is part of the children's vision that we have, in other words, to create strong communities for children. That is why I think it is both important and right that more children with special needs should be referred together with their comrades to ordinary education, and it is also true that we started to reverse the development in which more and more pupils were specially taught and where one third of the school budget was spent on special education in particular. So that's not the same thing as saying that inclusion is easy. Because it's And exactly as the minister said, we're deeply concerned about this issue and we're following it closely. Resources must be We have among other things. a total of EUR 1 billion for additional training for teachers and teaching staff and managers; a new pool of EUR 75 million to support the inclusion work in the municipalities and schools. kr., which was set aside in the Finance Act this year, which offers the opportunity to make an effort for the teachers and educators who are facing the greatest challenges. In addition, we have made a municipality agreement for this year, where the municipalities commit themselves to the ongoing work on inclusion and prioritising the resources needed to ensure a good transition. Reporting the work is something that we also need to follow closely. Some municipalities have gone further than others, as the Minister has already pointed out, there is no doubt about that at all. However, as I have just listed, we are already doing a lot of things to ensure the good inclusion of more children in school. That is why the Socialists do not support the proposal here. However, as I have already said, it is a job and a conversion that we are very concerned about and that we are following closely. Then I have promised to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who was also unable to be present for this resolution today, and to say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110742	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110745	Thank you. I have one question for the Socialist rapporteur. The Social Democrats' rapporteur said that she agrees with the Enhedslisten that there must be a good framework if we are to make good inclusion. Nevertheless, the Socialists cannot support this resolution, which is so much about a framework. How, then, will the Socialists ensure that there is a good framework for inclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110819	Just as I said, there are a great many good intentions in this resolution. First of all, there are five points which do not show in one word how to finance it. First of all, therefore, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, which has in no way provided for funding. In addition, we think that this is, of course, a difficult process. It is the case that inclusion is a task that needs to be done, but as Mrs Lund also heard me say, there are a number of initiatives. Twenty municipalities have been involved in the process here. It's 16,000 students who have also been involved in this project. This is about it being a project, and it's something that has to be worked on every day of primary school. So we do not want the alternative, which is that children are excluded from ordinary children's communities. That's the most important sight for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110908	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110911	So let me try to ask you another way. The initiatives listed by the Socialist rapporteur are primarily about continuing training and about strengthening the competences of primary school teachers and educators. I'm trying to ask about the frames. Do the Socialists believe that the money that we jointly dropped out of the Finance Act last year is enough to create a good framework for inclusion? So that's 25 million. kr. a year. We're talking about frameworks, not competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410110947	It was the case that the country's primary schools actually spent almost a third of their budget on special education and reference to social pedagogy assistance. It is a trend that we think we should reverse. So this isn't just about economics. This is just about frames. And with the new framework for primary school, we want all children to be as skilled as they can. The third point in our overall principle here is that children must thrive, and that is why we have taken a large number of initiatives to make children thrive: we make student plans and goals for each individual student; we have created new common goals that are development goals instead of being final goals; we have to pay attention to the individual student; we have to make well-being measurements every year when we are going to have targets for the individual child, but also the entire children's community. So this thing about being excluded from the ordinary community of children, many children also experience it as violent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410111039	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410111046	Thank you, President. The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution is a fine proposal to improve the spaciousness of the primary school. Most of the proposals are well in line with what the Danish People's Party itself has proposed several times: that there should be support teachers in classes with included pupils, that teachers should be trained, that the money from special education should follow into the normal school. Spaciousness is an important task for schools, and they need the right tools to solve it. During the work on the bill on inclusiveness in the conciliation circle, we asked whether we should not earmark the money because, as a municipal politician, I often saw that the money was not always spent as intended. But the Minister's answer was that it would be an interference in municipal self-government. However, we are of the opinion that if the municipalities cannot figure out how to let the money go with the child to normal school, as is the intention of the law, we must look at it again. Although the proposal has many fine things, however, it lags a little behind the funding, as others have also pointed out. We would therefore suggest that we make a report in committee. We'd like to help Enhedslisten with that. And then perhaps we can find common ground in the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410111220	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410111231	The whole of society and all communities, not least primary school, need to be spacious and inclusive, including children and young people with special needs. Schooling is a major part of the life of children and young people and an important starting point for their social life and for the communities they form part of. That is why we must, of course, ensure that children and young people have the support and the tools needed to ensure that inclusion is possible. Inclusion is not just placing more children in ordinary education without further adaptation and resources as pupils move from special offers to ordinary education. It is essential that teachers have the necessary handles in the form of continuing training and also like the support of teachers and educators from the special area, and that the necessary and correct adjustments are made to the educational environment and the provision and physical framework. We need a school where all children learn and thrive. And when one day we see all children as individuals contributing to diversity, we have come a very long way. That is also what I read is the intention of Enhedslisten's proposal. The Enhedslisten proposes, among other things, that school managers be required to draw up joint action plans for included pupils with teachers, parents and pupils. In SF, we fully agree that successful inclusion requires clear goals and cooperation between school, teachers, parents and pupils. It is in a community and through a good dialogue between school, parents and pupils that we create the best possible conditions and learning environments for children with special needs. In addition, we also fully agree with the objective that municipalities should use the resources released in the field of special education for normal education. Inclusion should not be a municipal austerity exercise, so of course the released funds should be used to improve the inclusion in normal education for the benefit of children with special needs, but also for children participating in the teaching without special prerequisites, since they also feel it if there are not enough resources in the teaching. It is therefore a very sympathetic proposal that lies here from the Enhedslisten, but if we cannot support it immediately, it is because there is no funding. It is the case that the SF itself proposed a three-digit million amount for inclusion in our financial law proposal. We only made 25 million. kr. annual, but we did so in cooperation with Enhedslisten, and it is SF's hope that SF and Enhedslisten can continue their cooperation on and for inclusion, which is fully funded, in the context of the Finance Act we are negotiating for 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410111458	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410111515	I am pleased that the Enhedslisten is tabling this resolution in the Parliamentary Chamber so that we can have a discussion on inclusion here too. The Liberal Alliance is part of the Inclusion Act, and we are for two reasons. The first part of this is that we believe it has been economically necessary. There are many parties who probably do not like to admit that, but it is just the case that before the Act on Inclusion was adopted, the special area filled approx. 30% I think most of the parties who have sat and looked at the figures have thought that it is too much; it is simply too much and we have to stop somewhere. I think that is a logical conclusion. But there's just the thing about Enhedslisten that you have the luxury of ignoring economic facts. It is not a luxury that other parties give themselves, you might say. The second part of this is that the separation of pupils has of course also run off in the Danish primary school, because although some pupils with special needs can benefit greatly from having a special offer at a completely different school, it was also a tendency that there was a sickening of pupils who had such small disabilities or social challenges that they should be able to accommodate in primary school. So the two things combined made us back up. However, we must also say that the way it has been implemented has certainly not been optimal, and we have pointed that out many times. Firstly, we believe that this has happened too quickly. When you do something like this, you might as well make a plan that is long-term; there's no need to hurry so much. There's been bad information out to the schools. You know a lot about this area, and there are many different children, so you could easily have handled the information all the way to the schools much better. There has been a lack of continuing training. When you make a central law and say that everyone has to adapt to it, you should also make an apparatus available to the schools so that not everyone has to invent the deep plate themselves. You could have done that. Secondly, as has been pointed out, a model has not been drawn up in which the money follows the individual child completely into the classroom, which means that many of the money that should have been spent on children with special needs may have gone to raise-down tables when teachers are going to sit in schools, as they are going to do here, and that is obviously completely impossible, since these children have needs to be met. Finally, at the same time, there has been an implementation of a huge reform of primary schools, which also means that many of the children we are talking about here have been completely squeezed. So all in all, it has to be concluded that implementation has happened with its head under its arm. So, in the Liberal Alliance, we believe that we should now make a model for the money to come right into the classroom and, of course, also to a private school, if that is what the individual family wants. A digital training apparatus must be created for teachers to ensure that those with inclusion children can receive further training. We also need to have a discussion on what kind of teacher it is. Are all teachers responsible for the inclusion challenge, or are teachers with special qualifications? Then you also have to open up special classes again, because it is no good that there are students coming back who cause so much unrest that there are 20 students who are having their education destroyed. Nor is it any use for children who are particularly fragile to sit in some classes and not to get optimal education. So special classes are a really good opportunity, where children can be at school, be part of some parts of ordinary education and regular time at school, but thus also be in a sheltered environment. So special classes must be allowed to rise again. So the Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution, but we certainly have sympathy for elements of it, and we would very much like to continue the discussion so that there can be proper solutions to the problems of inclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410111930	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410111934	Thank you. I will not deal so much with which parties have much access to luxury or which have a luxury policy. There I think I am of a slightly different opinion than Mrs Merete Riisager. I would just like to point out that the motion for a resolution states in such a way that the money released from special education should be transferred to the primary school, for example. To fund this. So I would just like to ask Mrs Merete Riisager: when the Liberal Alliance voted in favour of the inclusion law, was it thought that the money saved on special education should be spent on something other than primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112017	No, it was actually the intention of the bill which was put forward at the time that the money should follow. It just didn't happen, or at least there wasn't any certainty about it. And there we have actually called out quite early on in the arms of the Liberal Alliance and said: we can't do that, we need to tighten up. We're gonna have to make a model where the money's gonna take the baby to the classroom. So if Mrs Rosa Lund goes back a little and looks at the media, she will also see that the Liberal Alliance pointed that out quite soon after the law was passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112049	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112051	I think it is very good that the Liberal Alliance has pointed this out in the media. But since we can see that the money does not follow, what are we going to do about it? I mean, does the Liberal Alliance want to play a part in this? We would like that very much in the Enhedslisten. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. The Liberal Alliance does not think this is the right way to act. Can the Liberal Alliance perhaps make a proposal to the Enhedslisten on how we should act on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112122	We would very much like to sit down and discuss how we can draw up a method for this. In fact, I would say that if you were now the government party, it is neither the Liberal Alliance nor the Enhedslisten... then it should be possible to launch some of the many officials at your disposal and say: make a model for this where you make sure that the money that has been allocated to a child in the special field can follow the individual child right out into the classroom. It must be possible. Neither the Enhedslisten nor the Liberal Alliance has an army of officials, so we can sit down and make a proposal for a model. But I really believe that this is a responsibility of the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112201	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112212	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for raising the debate on inclusion here in Parliament. This is a very important and, above all, topical subject in the field of school. I recognise the intentions of the proposal but, like most other parties, we cannot support it either, and I would like to explain that further. First of all, it is because the proposal involves significant financial costs for either the State or the municipalities, without, however, providing financing for these costs. It is very important for the Conservative People's Party that when we make proposals or support proposals, they are funded. Secondly, I think that the Enhedslisten is slightly violating the principle of municipal autonomy, as the Minister also mentioned. I do not like it when we on the part of the Danish Parliament, in addition to the framework we agree with the municipalities, would also like to send out some political signals and make some pools where we decide what the municipalities should prioritise. Nor do I like it when we interfere too much in the things which the municipalities or schools • or, for that matter, the companies or families can solve themselves. And I think you do that here. The Enhedslisten suggests that in classes with pupils with special needs there is either a lower class quotient, support teachers or a two-teacher scheme. And the municipalities can give priority to this if necessary. Again: It will cost really, very much money if everyone has to have one, perhaps even more parties before the last election, to have more teachers in the classes, but that has not happened. And one of the reasons is that it will cost real, very much money, a huge million dollars. There is also a good opportunity for municipalities to allocate funds to schools, taking into account, for example: areas or schools with particular challenges in the field of inclusion. They can then give priority to one or more of the proposals or measures contained in this resolution. The Enhedslisten also proposes a national plan for continuing education of the country's primary school teachers to carry out the inclusion task, and many municipalities are already doing so. Some have made tailor-made courses with professional colleges, which exactly meet the needs of the individual place. And should I tease a little, I would say that I do not understand that Enhedslisten only mentions the teachers. In fact, I find that both educators and educators also play a very important role in successful inclusion. So we should not forget them, even in relation to continuing training. Finally, Enhedslisten proposes a dialogue with municipalities on how much resources they lack in order to implement the inclusion legislation, and establishes a temporary financial solution that provides sufficient resources for the inclusion task in the municipalities. I think it's fine. I actually think it's necessary for us to be in dialogue with the municipalities on this task. I also believe that the Ministry is, and the Minister has already replied to that. I can tell you what answer we will get right now, because the answer will be: send more money, much more money. So the dialogue is fine, but we cannot just make a temporary economic solution that provides sufficient resources, because how much money are we talking about? The proposal actually promises the money before you know how much it really is. Then the classic question to Enhedslisten is: Where should the money come from, because I am convinced that it is not enough to transfer some of the funds saved on the special class part. Whether this temporary solution is to be adopted now or in the context of a future financial law, the money must in any case be found. However, as I said, that paragraph is not included in the proposal. It is important, first and foremost for the children, that we succeed in the inclusion task at our schools, both the children that are included, but also the children that are affected by inclusion. We would also like to ensure good opportunities for managers, teachers, educators and educators to be equipped to solve the inclusion task, and we find that the municipalities and schools are well at work and that they have a great focus on the task. So are we going to finish the job? No, we are not, and the inclusion task is probably one of the things that we never fully achieve, because we are constantly evolving because the task also changes. Are we in line with further training of the school's employees? No, we are not, but my impression is that we are on the right track. Are there elements that can be improved in relation to inclusion? Yes, indeed, and that is why the debate and the daily focus on inclusion are also very important. We want to be in dialogue with the municipalities and schools on this important task. We would also like to evaluate efforts and discuss possible changes in the coming years. However, the Conservative People's Party cannot, in our opinion, support a proposal that is too far-reaching and not economically sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112653	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410112707	Thank you and thank you for today's debate on inclusion. We believe in the Enhedslisten that it is extremely important that we constantly discuss inclusion and that we constantly take stock of how things are going with inclusion in primary school, and not least that we also act when it turns out that it doesn't work. I believe that inclusion is a very beautiful thought, and several people have also said that it is best to be part of a community; that it is best for children to be part of a community of children. For us in the Enhedslisten, it gives itself that children are different and that they do not need the same help; that a child who has autism, a child who is very outgoing, and a child who is specially in his own way, needs three completely different approaches and learns in three completely different ways. If they are to thrive during a school day and if they are to be allowed to be part of a community of children, it requires that there is time and space for all three of them. If a student with special needs has been included in a class, but the time and resources are not there for the individual learner, then inclusion may end up being exclusion, so the beautiful intention behind inclusion can actually end up being exactly the opposite; it can end up with the student being excluded because the student cannot keep up with the teaching, or because the student does not thrive in the class. I really think we need to ask all the students who have been included about how they experience inclusion; whether they feel as part of the community. The students I have asked and who I have talked to are experiencing exactly the opposite. They don't think it's fun to go to school. They don't feel like part of a community. My clear impression is that, unfortunately, it is so many places that inclusion does not work. Money has not been taken into account. On the contrary, the grant to the public schools is per year. student has been 13 per cent. less since 2002. The number of teachers has fallen by 11%. The number of pupils has only fallen by 3%. Class ratios are increasing, and up to 40 municipalities will save on primary school during the current budget year. The audit firm BDO has, for example: made an analysis that shows that there will be 13 per cent. less crowns per year. student in primary school. This is not, of course, because the money saved in special education was to be spent in primary school. At least I'm having a hard time getting that equation going up. At the same time, a study by the Danish Teacher's Association shows that 84 per cent. of the teachers who have included pupils in their class consider that the pupils enrolled do not receive the educational offer to which they are entitled, and the majority of teachers believe that the support opportunities have deteriorated from last year. So this is how everyday experts experience inclusion. I think that may be a bit contrary to the debate we have had in here today, when we have talked a lot about all children being part of children's communities. It sounds so beautiful that it is best for children to learn in the framework they are in. I think that this is very much in contrast to what everyday experts are experiencing, and I think it actually advocates that we need to discuss even more inclusion so that we can have a common basis with the municipalities, but especially with the teachers and, as the Conservatives mentioned, with the educators and the assistants who are also in the primary school, so that we have a common basis to discuss on the basis of. As I said, in the Enhedslisten, we are concerned that inclusion should work. The reason we voted against the Inclusion Act was precisely because it was unfunded. That is why we come here with a proposal on how we believe that inclusion can work. We believe it can if we ensure that there are smaller classes; that there are two teacher schemes in those classes where pupils are included; if we require school managers to draw up action plans jointly with teachers and parents and educators and pupils. And above all, we demand that the municipalities spend the money, the resources that have been saved in connection with inclusion, at primary school. This is precisely where the funding lies. I think it would only be appropriate for the parties responsible for the law on inclusion to dare to make demands on the municipalities that the money saved on special education should also be spent at primary school. That is, in fact, the financing of this proposal. The last part of the proposal is about opening a dialogue with the municipalities and, as far as I know, it does not cost any money for the Ministry of Education or for the government to enter into a dialogue with the municipalities on how to make inclusion work. I am in favour of concluding, after that dialogue, that we need to spend some more money on inclusion. It would be my prediction that that would be what came out of it, but it surely does not cost anything to start a dialogue. I would just like to conclude by thanking you for the debate and accepting the offer made by the Danish People's Party to try to make a joint report on this motion for a resolution on how to ensure better inclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410113304	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410113331	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410113344	Thank you, President. I would like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur, Mike Legarth, and say that he, like the Left, can support this bill. Geothermalism is something that among other things. is part of the energy agreement, where we set aside 35 million. kr. to promote geothermal energy in district heating. But we just have to recognise that it has been quite difficult in many places to get started on these projects, because drilling for hot water quite deep into the ground is associated with a very high economic risk. The district heating industry and the various actors in the area have requested some form of insurance that has been needed to get this development of geothermal projects under way. And it has also been the case that we have probably all said that the industry itself must somehow manage to make such an insurance scheme. But we just have to admit that it has not been possible. The three times 20 million. kr. is part of a Finance Act, of which the Left is not part, but I would like to say that we think it is sensible that such an insurance scheme should be set up. We have also seen how wrong things can be in one place in the country. It is a case of Viborg, which is a horror example of the financial costs involved if it subsequently turns out that it is not possible, and then it is the heat consumers who end up with a huge bill. It is therefore quite reasonable that we can get these projects under way so that we can get geothermal and thus an alternative energy source that can contribute to the whole green transition and also contribute in a way that is different and that can help complement biomass and wind energy in the overall energy picture. So the Left can support this bill, and so can the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410113545	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410113552	I think that when you work in the energy sector, you get your pet areas, that is, there are certain technologies that are particularly fascinated with you, and I would say that precisely the geothermal area I cannot help but be fascinated by. I am fascinated by the fact that basically it can be done just to put a straw down at one end and another straw down at the other end and then get them connected with some water, and then we'll get it done, as you'll need power plants or things that make noise and smell or smell or are ugly, to get, or whatever else it is. When you get to geothermal installations, you basically walk on a sidewalk similar to the metro. Then there's a grate, and you can take that grate up, and underneath that grate are the entrance holes of the two straws. It is simply nothing less than brilliant. It is regrettable that we have not gone further along this road yet, but I believe that this guarantee system will kick off. One might say that in a country where so many parts of society are based on district heating, which is basically just hot water, is of course the right way to go. After all, this is part of the green transition, the great green transition, and one can say that so far there have been only a few projects, and one may wonder why the conditions are as they are. It is expensive to investigate, and that is of course one of the reasons why we have not gone further with the geothermal area in Denmark than we are, and those who have the rights to investigate and to make the extraction run a very high financial risk in connection with them sticking these straws into the ground. The bill then opens up the possibility of providing financial risk coverage for these boreholes. It is insofar as it is a voluntary scheme for those who have the rights to boreholes and they can then choose to pay for the scheme. An independent council will then be set up to assess which geothermal drilling can be covered by the scheme, and this is exactly what the rapporteur of the Left was talking about, namely that there have been examples in the past that it may not necessarily have been the best project management that has been, and that means that in this scheme, when several different economic partners are linked together, we will have to be able to assess what kind of project it is, i.e. whether it is sustainable projects, whether it is sustainable management, which is in these projects, because otherwise the risk will be too great. The bill is then also an enforcement of the budget law for 2015, where we agreed that we could make such a scheme and where these 60 million were set aside. kr. to be able to create and operate the advice to ensure the viability of the projects. The scheme is voluntary, and only that part of the business community actually wants to participate in the scheme will have financial or administrative costs in connection with this bill. Those who choose not to be part of the scheme do not thus contribute to it. During the last 30 years, only three plants have been established in Denmark, but when the scheme is fully capitalised, it will be able to handle two or three projects a year, and they will typically be able to deliver four or ten boreholes. So there's a lot of resources to get from this particular bill. And in the metropolitan area, the reserves are thought to cover 30-50 percent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. That's what's so brilliant about renewable energy when we make this type of drilling, because once they're there, it's something that can be used for many, many years into the future without in any way porking, either in the community or globally. We are one of the richest countries, and I think that is important to bear in mind when we talk about this, because one thing is the enthusiasm for technology and the genius of being able to make hot water and thus get our homes heated, but another is that we, as one of the richest countries in the world, must of course also be those who set aside 60 million. kr. on a Finance Act to make sure that we can take the lead not only with the wind turbines there we have had a leading position for a long time but that we also get a leading position in some of the other areas that are completely obvious in the green transition. So we are probably front-runners in the wind energy sector, and we must continue to do so, but the wind does not make the cuts alone, and that is why we obviously have to use all available forms of energy, and when you have even found someone who is bothering people so little and at the same time does not mess up, we will of course have to go down this road. Social democracy can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410114019	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410114025	The bill here is, of course, the implementation of part of the financial law agreement for 2015, and as you know, it is a financial law agreement that Dansk Folkeparti is not part of. However, I would like to say that we think that the content of this bill, and at least this part of the budget law, is very sensible. The potential of exploiting geothermal energy, i.e. The hot water in the underground is huge and the previous rapporteur has already mentioned the potential involved. And it would be silly not to try to make better use of that natural resource than is the case today. What is being proposed here is to set up a system to reduce the risk of drilling these deep holes in the underground. For experience has unfortunately shown that there is a certain risk of drilling these holes; that the desired product does not come from them. And that is why they have very much refrained from trying to do so. The proposal here creates a system of financial risk coverage, so that the players who are in this industry are more free from taking risks and should therefore be animated to start drilling more underground in order to exploit the deposits of hot water that is in Denmark's underground. This is common sense, and it is also a relatively small amount that is set aside in the Finance Act for initial capital for this scheme. And, of course, things have been financed by the Finance Act, so we have no doubts about supporting that. So I can therefore say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410114231	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is no radical rapporteur present, and then it is Mr. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410114245	Thank you. SF supports the proposal, and we are also very pleased that it became part of the Finance Act agreement that we together with Enhedslisten made with the government. One can also say that one is glad that some of those who did not help to find the money are also happy about it, and I have heard that there were two rapporteurs here, and it would be an even greater joy if the whole parliament would say that it was a fantastic idea and a great deal of agreement we made when we made the financial agreement. It's a little tricky to put it this way, but it wasn't exactly the words that sounded when we made the financial agreement; it was probably too green and too expensive and so on, maybe not this little part of it, but all of it. The fact is that this is just as obvious as the Social Democrat rapporteur said here. I grew up in Thisted, and there we have the country's oldest facility. Unfortunately, it has been a lot of years before we have actually moved beyond that plant in Thisted, and this is something that we may have to take on collectively, that is to say that we have not really done anything more faster. The fact is that right now it is extra important because we are moving to a new phase in our energy policy, where it is going as you get power from renewable energy sources that do not produce heat, for example. wind is much more sensible to say that you can then get the warm water at geothermal. Some other places where that option is not there, yes, then there must be heat pumps, which also use wind power, to help heat up the hot water so that the whole model becomes renewable. So it is a very necessary, current scheme with those projects, and we know that there are many on the way. Some have come very far, for example. in Skive, from which some have been and visited us in committee several times, but there are also many other test drillings going on, which means that we have the chance to have a great deal of potential here. Denmark is actually suitable for that. It is so described that it may be possible to provide a guarantee for two or three plants a year and not more. I would therefore like to say, in addition to the fact that we naturally support the proposal, that it may well be that we need something more, and I would also appeal to us to look together at how this works and whether the risk is quite as great as it is being done here, and to gather that knowledge along the way, so that there is more and more safe drilling. After all, there are many who say that the bad project at Viborg with better knowledge and better governance did not actually have to be a bad project. I'm not gonna be smart about that. I just note that some people are saying this, and it is a call for us to make so much of this when we are now spending this money on a guarantee system, an invitation to build up the competence that we can speed up in the years to come, so that geothermal really does happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410114637	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410114646	Now my mood here at today's start was already quite high because we had to deal with this bill, and it was no less high when I found that there are still examples of Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil being fascinated by the same things as me. I think it is really nice to find that there are still some common feelings left there. It is not so bad when you consider that Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, when she shared the party with me, did not spend as much time dealing with energy policy as she has fortunately done since. That's one. But the second, which is really serious and important, is that we in the Enhedslist are really excited about this bill, and we are, not least because we have wanted this scheme for so many years, actually back to the time when we made the energy settlement, when we were glad that this 35 million came. kr. with e.g. for geothermal, but where we also said at the time that it was our clear impression that there were such great challenges that it was not enough was not enough. That is why we have so routinely, almost dullly, in the subsequent financial legislative negotiations, repeated a desire to set up such a system. Sometimes you could get the impression that changing climate ministers, let alone stationary finance ministers, were getting a little tired of listening to this. But, of course, there was an ongoing discussion, and it is also reflected in the comments to the draft law, about whether it really was possible to establish an insurance scheme within the industry that could solve this challenge. You couldn't. In itself, I have often hoped that it would succeed, because my confidence that it would end up succeeding in getting the government to believe that this money had to be set aside had sometimes become a little rusty. But in the last financial law negotiations, we have to say that this demand and wish went rather simply, and I think that was because some things need to be settled. After all, we were also approaching the period when a number of the permits that had been granted to drill for geothermal purposes were running out and there might be a risk that they would then be abandoned, and thus a unique opportunity to provide both cheap and sustainable energy would disappear, and that would, of course, be really, really stupid. I also think that from the people who work with district heating in the country, there were quite strong representations to the government that this was a challenge that had to be solved. Fortunately, many of the people who work with district heating in the country are distinguished by being members of parties other than Enhedslisten, and it is sometimes useful and beneficial that sound and sensible views spread into other parties. There is no doubt that we will have to follow this system when it is put in place, and not only to see whether it ensures that the necessary steps are taken, but also, of course, to ensure that the system is not used as an excuse for not being so that I fully share Mr Giscard d'Estaing's point of view. Steen Gade's idea that we should follow it up on a regular basis. However, there is no doubt to me that this draft law with a very limited state financial effort can produce results that can have a very, very large and very, very crucial impact on our energy supply in the years to come, and that is why I think it is a really, very good day when we can get this bill through in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115038	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115043	Thank you. Although we in the Liberal Alliance welcome the use of alternative environmentally friendly energy sources, we do not consider it appropriate to create a new bureaucratic system, a new Energy Agency Council and a new form of State aid in the field of energy. I know that the amount is not large, but as the hearings also point out, there are possible pitfalls and opportunities for uncontrollable use of the system. This proposal is, in substance, a top-down-controlled scheme, like the other schemes in the energy conciliation, understood in the way that we have to tell the market from here what is the right form of energy. And if it goes wrong, the risk needs to be lubricated out on others. I would remind you, as others have already done in the debate, that we have wasted hundreds of millions of dollars on misinvestment in this area. We are very much in favour of technology-neutral regulations, because every time you give benefits to some, there will be others that you choose from. And we certainly do not know the developments and potentials of the technologies in the future, nor do I believe that in terms of the market. We have a Better Place scandal that probably cost close to half a billion; we had some solar cells a few years ago that cost a whole billion. These are situations that arise alone because in here you want to know what is good and what is bad and what will eventually be competitive. We simply do not know the development of technologies, and certainly not their market potential. Such a regime always goes wrong, and we cannot support a further hugging in the diversity of aid schemes in the energy sector, despite the fact that geothermal is a very good source of energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115237	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115241	That all sounds very good. I should just like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that the green energy adventure could have been developed without political interference, because I understand from the rapporteur that market forces must be allowed to prevail. Is it realistic that we would have had that position in the wind turbine sector if there had not been State subsidies? It was, moreover, an extremely large state subsidy to begin with, but now it has become considerably smaller and is actually profitable when it comes to winds on land. Could it have been done if only market forces had been given free rein?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115314	It could do that. It is not certain that it was just the case that the windmill area had been so strong, but it has also been spent quite a lot of billions of dollars. I would like to say that it may be okay to feed a child, but to feed an adult I do not know whether it is 30 years that we grant subsidies to wind turbines, but it is such a similar thing we do not think appropriate. One can easily make arrangements, as one does in Norway and Sweden, with certificates where one makes it technology-neutral, so that, in terms of who gets rid of the victory, it is not dependent on who knows who or who can get a dime more out of the state, but on who is best at getting renewable energy up and running.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115357	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115400	Well, I guess it's not exactly a market economy either. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to give an example of just one example in a society, in a country where the energy sector has offered renewable green energy, in other words sustainable energy, without State interference. In other words, can he give an example of just one society where it has been possible to develop it? In so far as it could also be the black energy? So just one society where it is so that one has been able to operate the energy without state interference? Well, I know there isn't one on the planet. That is to say, when the Liberal Alliance blows off its market logic in this area, that is, when we are talking about energy policy, it is, in my best opinion, tangled with something that is absolutely naive. But, of course, the rapporteur may be able to give just one example of how, in some societies, energy policy has been pursued without interference from the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115444	I'm not here to tell you there's no interference. After all, it is the method that is crucial: that we tell from here what is good, what is bad, how much you should have in grants, how long you should have it, and how many megawatts etc. I mean, the top-down management I also said in my rapporteur's speech is not the one we think is the right way to go. However, let the technologies compete, because we cannot know what jumps are going to be made in technology development. When the solar cells suddenly cost half of it and we were emptying the treasury. So, Picking the winners is an unreasonable way to do it. We think you should have the same conditions, and then you have to compete. That is the healthiest thing, including for the Treasury and the citizens' drawing boy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115528	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115531	But is Mr. Wouldn't Mr Christensen agree with me that when we invest in energy supplies, we typically invest in something that needs to be remunerated over a 30-40-year period? And neither private nor state investors can predict what will happen in ten years' time when they make that investment. So there we are all on the brink, and that is why we are not going to solve the challenge that Mr. Villum Christensen outlines, by saying that it is better to let the market control it, because it can go just as wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115608	There is just the difference that, when the market controls it, money is not pulled out of the citizens' cartoons at the same time, as I said a moment ago. In other words, the fact or fact that it is long-term investment is also known in the private sector. There are, of course, plenty of investments which are only remunerated over 30 to 40 years in the private sector. This does not mean that the state should go in and guarantee the deficit. So there is nothing different in relation to the energy sector, which can lead to an argument that then you have to let the citizens pay if things go wrong. What is absolutely crucial is that if you go the way we do, as I also said before, where we choose out, what is good and what is bad, then we have the greatest assurance that it will eventually go wrong. History has shown that. I'm very sorry, it hasn't been very clever. Now we also have another energy law proposal later today. It's a patch on the patch, because you see an inappropriateness that you didn't think there was when you made the law. It did not take a year after this energy agreement was concluded in March 2012 until we discovered that the subsidies for the net scheme in the PV sector were far too high. And that is a good example of how we cannot foresee what is happening. That is why I am just saying that this is the idea of top-down governance that we are opposed to, and that is why we do not think this proposal is right either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115729	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115732	I understand, sir. Villum Christensen. He has made it easy for himself, because all the problems that arise in the energy sector all over the world are due to state interference. And when the state interferes everywhere, it's pretty easy. But what I just want to ask, sir. Villum Christensen about is: Who does he think will pay if investments in the energy sector made by private individuals fail? Does he think that in the future we will just let the energy sector go bankrupt, let the power disappear from the contacts without anyone paying to drive it forward? Well, sir. Will Mr Christensen say that there is any possibility of privatising the risk when we talk about energy supplies? We can probably privatise profits, we often do well, but to privatise the risk here I do not believe that we will see in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115820	I think I will respond in such a way that at the moment we are expanding a great deal and have very large investments, especially in the wind sector. The price of electricity is very low. This means that supply in the market in which we operate is greater than demand. There are many areas where we actually get less energy consumption, because we save so much energy, and that is good. But we were able to boost investment with the result that we could get even lower prices. And the kind of government management that you go and get some inappropriate price developments will also be a reason why it can be difficult on a private basis to invest when the price is so low. This is just an example of how when you get involved in the market, we get some very, very big fluctuations. I am quite sure that when we get the next wind farm up, the fluctuations we will see will be even greater. So there's nothing new in the fact that the market is best at regulating and correcting these differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115929	Sir. Steen Gade for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410115931	Thank you. I want to go back to geothermal, because I think, sir. Villum Christensen gets away from that discussion a little bit. If we say that it was about 40 years ago that Thisted had its geothermal plant, then I would ask whether the market has succeeded particularly well since then in getting some hot water up. Villum Christensen agrees with that is very sensible, as I understand it. So what we are doing here is sensible, but has the market solved it over the last 30-40 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120011	My key point is that we shouldn't go out and tell them what's good. We need to have equal conditions for everyone, and then the technologies, including this technology, must compete with each other on equal terms. When we go in and top-down this thing and say that something is more important than anything else, we go and tell a potential source of energy that it will be pushed down by disabling others. It is the whole method behind which I think is problematical certainly not that we get plenty of that geothermal, which there can be a lot of sense in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120050	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120053	Thank you. Now, in case I say to Mr. Knox... Mr. Villum Christensen, that state control may have many pitfalls and errors in, Mr. Will Mr Christensen say that the market can also make some fundamental mistakes, that it simply does not act properly? So, we agree, I understand that there is hot water under large parts of Denmark. We agree that it would be sensible to bring it up. But it just hasn't happened, and sir... Villum Christensen knows that in the last two to three years since this government came into being, we have been trying to see if we could get the market, including the financial market, to guarantee this. We couldn't. We have just found that the market will not help to solve the task of socially exploiting the fact that we have some cheap hot water that we actually need to get up. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120203	It's the question of whether it's so cheap. If it were cheap to get up, it would probably have come up somehow. Again: if we gave the same conditions to everyone, it would come up here if it were market-oriented and sensible and cheap, as the rapporteur says. We just don't have to go out there and disassemble anyone. I actually think it is very well connected. And who else says that there are no other sources or other things, as Mr. Steen Gade and I don't know about this because we're not necessarily experts in technology that's even more lucrative, including for society? Now it is a very fundamental discussion, I know that, because it is not a large amount of money we are talking about, but I also think, in principle, that the fact that we are telling from here what needs to be done is a great waste. It's not just something I'm saying. One should not go far back until one can see how we are constantly patching up the patch because we cannot tolerate seeing all the waste that comes out of trying to regulate something that we cannot actually regulate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120309	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120323	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law, and also thank you for the recent discussion, which had a more fundamental aspect. Perhaps I should start by saying that I fully share Mr. Per Clausen and Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil's fascination with geothermal energy is a wonderful technology. It is obvious, of course, that we should try to use a free, renewable, clean energy source, and it is also obvious that we have not succeeded in establishing geothermal installations since the installations in Thisted, apart from that in Copenhagen, which has also shown good tactics over the past many years. Then we have tried to find a way of doing it together in the Finance Law circle, and here comes the coinage of it. The overall aim of the draft law is to promote the use of geothermal energy and it must be done in such a way that the energy policy objectives of taking account of climate, environment and security of supply are supported. We therefore propose, with the proposal, that a system be put in place to promote the use of geothermal energy. The scheme shall allow rights holders of geothermal permits to obtain financial cover for their drilling against an acceptable payment and on acceptable terms. Such a product does not exist on the commercial market, and on that basis the geothermal industry has been demanding a state product to remedy the problem for several years. The bill we're looking at here comes up against the geothermal industry. It's an innovation. Provision is made for limiting the economic risk of geothermal projects in connection with boreholes, thus removing an existing barrier to increased use of geothermal energy. It is the intention of the proposed scheme to reduce the economic risk of geothermal drilling while preserving the rights holders' responsibility for the successful implementation of drilling. This will be ensured, inter alia, by: through a payment by users. It will be voluntary, it is an option to use the scheme, and the target group of the scheme will, of course, be the rightholders of geothermal permits. It will typically be district heating companies that will use geothermal energy in their district heating supply. The draft law contains a number of authorisation provisions: it authorizes the establishment of the geothermal system and authorizes the creation of a special council to administer the scheme. The Council is important in relation to one of Mr. Steen Gades points out that the Council must assess and approve the applications to join the scheme and thus ensure the best possible starting point for the implementation of the projects and the sustainability of the scheme. It is clear that this will give us both a professional assessment of the individual geothermal projects and also an opportunity, if you will say so, to assess whether it is risky or less risky, and thus it will also contribute to the overall learning of geothermals at home. There have been a number of people who have noticed that a geothermal drilling in Viborg went wrong. I am delighted that in the meantime they have got Apple's large data centre, which will probably be able to supply Viborg with district heating for many years to come. So Viborg has found a completely new alternative way of heating up the city in the meantime. I am sure that with the proposed geothermal system, we will see, in turn, that this excellent technology will spread. So thank you for your interest, I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the committee, and I would like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120647	Thank you to the Minister and there seem to be no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. It does not appear that anyone is objecting, and then I consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120712	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410120728	Thank you for that, President. Here too, I should like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur and say that he, like the Left, can support the draft law, and that is no wonder, since the main content of the draft law here is a joint political agreement that we should give more less decentralised cogeneration plants the opportunity to have a free choice of fuel; that is, the possibility of going from natural gas-fired cogeneration to district heating alone on the basis of biomass, and that is something that not least a number of the less decentralised cogeneration plants have been asking for very, very long. So far, 35 plants have had the opportunity, and with the bill here we come up with 85 less decentralised cogeneration plants being given this opportunity, and for a number of the works it is a matter of economic survival. They are, in a number of cases, quite pressured on the wallet, which means that in some places there is a disproportionate heat price. With the bill here, a number of the works will be able to reduce the annual heating cost by between DKr 3,000 and DKr 4,000. a year, which means that they become more competitive than they are today. There's also funding for this. There is a removal of the three-stage tariff, which means that a number of smaller works will experience a higher heat price. I would like to call on the Minister to have a joint dialogue on how we deal with some of those works, not least those which, quite recently or in recent years, have made quite significant investments in new engines and installations in general, and where they have done so in confidence that the three-stage tariff worked for many years in the future. There we can see that there are a number of the works that have come into an economic squeeze, and there I would like to call on the Minister to look at it together and that we will also have a look at what it means when the basic amount expires in 2018, and that we will have a discussion on how we deal with it. This means that a number of the works are also being pressured financially on the wallet in this context, and there I am confident that we will sit down together and see how we ensure that district heating is also competitive in the future. The draft law here also contains a number of other proposals, including: the possibility of price differentiation between space heating and process heating. In some places there may be good common sense in allowing companies to use district heating in particular, and it may be good to allow them to have different prices without compromising the district heating price for individual district heating consumers. Finally, there is something about the legalisation of the rules on the local authority's powers to provide collective heat supply and guarantee provision, and here I see it as if we need to clarify more clearly what the rules are like in relation to the local authority's tasks in this area. So the Left can support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410121045	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Left. Then it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410121056	Really big parts of this bill are really energy geeks at the very worst, I was gonna say, but it can be very fun sometimes. The part about the municipal legal basis is primarily about living up to the practice that is today. So far, so good. It is, of course, quite appropriate that legislation and practice should be linked to each other to some extent. The rapporteur has explained the technique, so I do not want to make much more of it. What I would like to say a little about is that it is now possible for the small works to come under the same system, that is to say that we are extending the present system from 35 works to 85 works. And why is it that it's not just nerdery and technique? It is simply because there are a number of customers out there today who pay thousands of kroner more for their district heating than other district heating customers. And that situation has arisen around what is called barmark works • a fantastic concept, which has cost really, very many consumers very many thousands of kroner over the years. A great many of the consumers we are talking about live at the same time in areas of Denmark where it can be difficult enough to sell your house in advance, and if there is a giant district heating bill on top of that, anyone can figure out that it will be even harder to sell their house. It is, of course, deeply unfair that the price differences have been as high as they have been and still are between the different parts of the country. What is meant by this proposal is that in addition to the first 35 of the worst of these barmark works, which we included in the scheme in the first place, we are now taking in another 50. And the whole purpose of this is to create a slightly more reasonable balance in what price levels each consumer is sitting at. So, of course, we're very happy with this bill, including the technical parts of it. So social democracy can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410121242	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Mikkel Dencker from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410121255	This draft law, L 177, contains the very good news, as the two previous rapporteurs have already said, that a good solution has been set out for the so-called barfield plants, i.e. the small gas-fired district heating plants, which have unfortunately been hit by a very pressured economy and very high heat prices for their customers. This has meant that many of these customers have of course had very high heating bills, which have been unbearable for these customers, just as many of the homes have almost become unsellable because of the high heating bill. The solution is that the worst affected plants are currently being allowed to fire with biomass instead of allowing customers to have a lower heating bill. It is already a solution which some years ago was used by the 35 hardest hit works, and that scheme will then be extended to include another 50 works, so that 85 works will come up with this scheme. This is very positive, and it is something that has been in demand for quite a number of years and which we in the Danish People's Party have also hoped for there would be an opportunity to achieve. So it's absolutely gratifying. The draft law also contains a number of other things which, contrary to the subject I just mentioned, are not a matter of contract, namely that the rules on access by municipalities to heat supply are regulated and, for example, also strengthen the possibilities for companies to take off heat from district heating for process purposes. That sounds quite reasonable in itself, so we can support that too. Then there is one more thing that includes something from the energy agreement, namely the ban on installing oil pine in new buildings after 2016, and there I have been wondering about something when I have read the comments on the bill, but it may be that this is something that the minister can elaborate a little later. On page 12, it was shown, in the comments to the draft law, that it has, however, proved necessary to clarify this legal basis in order to ensure compatibility with the EU's principles on the free movement of goods. It is used as an argument for extending the ban on these oil- and in some contexts also natural gas pine to include all kinds of fossil heating in new buildings. That is not what we have agreed in the energy conciliation circle, and although I know that hardly anyone builds housing and installs a coke or coal furnace in them, it is, however, a tightening up of what we have previously agreed. It is then stated that it is in order to comply with some EU principles that legislation is tightened on this point. It is, of course, a tightening up which has no practical significance, but I would like to know from where the initiative for this tightening comes. Is it the European Union that has approached and said: "Whoops, you have made some promise that is not okay, and now we come here and tell you that you must not do so, and that you must change it, or is it something that the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Building itself has been thinking about?' Has it been thought that this legislation is probably a little bit on the limit of what the European Union might allow, so we should get right before the European Union comes and hits us on the head with their famous cane? I would like to know where the initiative comes from. It is not something that has the great practical significance, because, as I said, nobody makes coke fire in their new buildings, but it is nevertheless to extend a ban, and we in the Danish People's Party in general are not in favour of it unless it is necessary. So I would like an explanation from the Minister when he comes up here a little later. But basically I would like to say that there are no elements in the draft law that we have a direct objection to from the Danish People's Party. However, I would like to say that I think it is a bad idea to mix the substance of the agreement into a legislative proposal which also contains elements that are not contractual. I think that should be kept separate. In those words, I will conclude my speech and look forward to the Minister's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410121735	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since I do not see the radical rapporteur present, Mr. Steen Gade as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410121747	Thank you. The SF supports the proposal, like the other rapporteurs who have spoken. The proposal here is basically part of the area of energy conciliation. Others have spoken warmly about the fact that we are helping to solve some of the problems of small works, and I fully agree that this is part of it. But I would also like to highlight that with the price differentiation between space heating and process heating customers; I think that is a good idea too. And then I would just like to say, like the rapporteur from the Left, that we are doing this now, and then we know that by 2018 we will have to look at the whole district heating sector • we have a challenge called 2018. In SF we believe that we should do a great deal to ensure that the most widely used change on the energy side will be to use heat pumps so that we can use our renewable energy from first and foremost the wind turbines that come in clumps, one can say, as it comes when it blows up to be brought into our district heating systems. But it is true that the whole transition to it and the whole system that we need to build up are one of the important things in the whole transition. In fact, this is also linked to the proposal we had before, because in some places it will be geothermal that you will be able to rely on, while elsewhere it will be using wind for heat pumps, and again elsewhere you will be able to use biomass, which we are actually opening up to here. In fact, it takes us even if there are some here in the Danish Parliament who do not really like it so much that we have a great overview. But that doesn't mean we don't think about the money. This actually means that we are thinking about the money in the conversion process.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410122013	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410122023	This bill may well illustrate some of what also came to be a part of the debate under the previous draft law, namely that when you try to make a mix between state governance, political decisions and then a market-driven sector, it tends to become a very comprehensive set of rules and perhaps also very bureaucratic. Now the alternatives may not be so attractive, so I think that the likelihood that there will be decisive errors is probably greater if you leave it to a purely market-oriented regime or, for that matter, to a purely state government, although I think both solutions would be piecemeal and much simpler to see through. In any case, it would be easy, as far as one is concerned, to subsequently identify those responsible for all the errors that are being made. I think that a mix is kind of sensible. Then you can always discuss where the limit should go, and then I would just like to start by commending the Minister for having taken something out of the bill. It also shows that once you have discovered it, you have been completely out of the question to read the answers to the hearings. In fact, I am very pleased that the proposals contained in the original legislative proposal that we should make an accounting and corporate separation of electricity and heat have been taken out. I think that is very wise and sensible, because the proposal was based in this area, in my view, on some somewhat dubious theories devised, among others. one of the very powerful ministries in this country that if you can establish some market and some competition or something similar to it, everything will be much better and cheaper. It would then result in a relatively rapid separation of the production of heat and electricity from each other, but those who have dealt with energy policy in this country know that it has been a really, very great advantage in Denmark that you have had that link. Then it may well be that it will be different in the future or at least technically have to be put together in a different way, but before you make a very big fight with the way we organise the district heating sector and the production of electricity and heat in Denmark, it is probably wise to try to agree on where it is that we want to go and how we want to get there, and then we have to see how that discussion can come about. But congratulations to the Minister for pulling it out. Then I would like to say something about the content of what is left. There is no doubt that the situation surrounding the so-called barmark works is really, really unhappy and that it is an additional challenge in an area of the country where there are already difficulties in getting the economy to work together, and that is why it was absolutely necessary to use, it can be said, the discussion about abolishing the three-tier tariff in order to achieve some improvements in this area, and I am pleased about that. I also agree that this has not solved all the challenges in this area at all, because the three-tier tariff is a great deal, and then there are other things that run out in 2017 and such things, so there are always some challenges that need to be solved, and we keep saying that I will have to say that it will probably be after the elections, it will be resolved, and then it will be other than me who will have to solve it, and it may be nice to think about it, because it will probably be a little complicated. What was also important in the context of this agreement for us to get through was that we took the opportunity to give a boost to the heat pumps in this area, because it is clear that heat pumps and the sensible use of the energy produced by wind are one of the huge challenges in the future, and heat pumps will play a very central role, and increased use of biomass boilers is generally not part of the solution to how we produce heat environmentally securely in Denmark, although it may well be in a transitional period and a specific situation for the works we are talking about, and which are in this economically very difficult situation, can be sensible to do. I have, of course, been very zealous in my reading of the attempt to regulate the area of the municipal guarantee system, to see whether some sort of liberalistic approach had crept in which prevented the municipalities from providing guarantees or, incidentally, went in the wrong direction politically. And although this is complicated and I may well have overlooked something, my best assessment is that the speakers who have said that we are making sure that there is a slightly more precise and transparent legislation in place to regulate an area which is a little opaque is probably right, and I would immediately say that if there are any changes, it would seem from my point of view that it is going in the right direction. I had considered not saying that, because it could cause some people to worry and cause them to shed unnecessary serious light on this. But I would say that I think we are in the margins, so the right thing to say is that we should make things a little more transparent, and that is not the dumbest thing we can do in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410122532	Thank you, sir. Per Clausen. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410122538	Thank you. As we have just heard from the last speaker, these are difficult matters we are dealing with here, and that is one of them. For this reason, we find it difficult from here to know what things will look like in the future, when we constantly add taxes, or when we subtract a little and add a little with subsidies, which is why we get a blanket like this. I have hardly ever seen such a difficult legislative proposal with so much text under what is called "the Ministry's reflections." I promise you that you have been a long way around the corners, and I also understand that the Social Democrats think that this is for energy geeks or how it was expressed. I guess it's probably a symptom of the same thing, the fact that there aren't any people who can figure out this area. I simply do not think so, at least not in depth. Then you write here in the bill that we need to clarify some things. Yes, when you clarify something, I'm pretty sure it has something to do with it, as Mr. Per Clausen mentioned here at the end, that is to say that it is really a municipalisation of the area that we are getting more into legislation here, when we are not to base ourselves on the local authority and the disgusting thing about the fact that the electricity market is, after all, a liberal market. So I think, sir. Per Clausen is onto something right when he says that after thorough reading he has reached that point of view. That doesn't change the fact that there's something positive in this bill as well. It is very, very complex, but with regard to the hoard we have always had with the small barmarks, I think it is very sensible that we should have a free choice of fuel and as freely as possible. It also costs money, because then there are some taxes that you do not get into the box, but a small touch every time we can get rid of the tax and subsidy regime I think must be a supporting element. I do not have the full overview of the legal complications of municipal authority or not municipal power, I admit, so I do not want to make such a super clear statement whether this is thumbs up or thumbs down for us. There's a lot of crazy things in this bill, and I don't have an overview of it at this point, I'd like to admit that, and I don't know if I'm getting it. But at least the positive thing is the free choice of fuel. In relation to the very legal aspect, I find it difficult to see whether it really is an advantage that we are going the municipalising road, or what you might call it, and that we really should be able to distinguish between when something goes down a certain box, that is when it goes down into a private box and when it goes down into the citizen's box. It is not always the case that such accounting principles and the fact that you just separate something accounting are very easy to handle; there we know from other contexts that you can do all kinds of fiddle dick. Whether it is reasonable and appropriate here, I find it difficult to see at this stage. We know there's a lot of money in this area, it really isn't change when we move it around. That is why I think it is important that the economic conditions relating to the accounting principles should be made very clear, and we would certainly like to clarify some of these points before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410122915	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410122930	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their comments on the proposal. I do not disagree with the fact that we are dealing with complicated and technical matter. It is a complex proposal. The rules on the local authority's powers to provide collective heat supplies, including the rules on guaranteeing, today follow the so-called municipal power of attorney rules, and this has given rise to ambiguity as to both the possibilities and limitations of the local authority's task in this area. That is why the proposal is that in future, rules on access by municipalities to the provision of collective heat supply should be included as a natural part of the heating supply law rather than of municipal proxies. It's for the sake of clarity. I can assure you that there is no ideological ride behind it, either on one side or the other. Municipalities and consumers have always been a great driving force behind the expansion of the collective heat supply in Denmark, and with this bill we create a clearer and better framework for their work. So it is generally a statutory regulation of the existing rules on the access of municipalities to own and operate heating systems and to provide a guarantee for the investment of the law in these installations. At the same time, however, I would also like to improve the ability of municipalities to guarantee investments in the large combined heat and power plants. I would like to mention, for the record, that an amendment is being tabled during the committee procedure. Unfortunately, after submission, we have become aware of a place where the legislative text on guaranteeing cooling-heat installations does not comply with the relevant legal notes. So the correct statement is made in the comments, which state very clearly that investments in cooling-heat plants cannot be guaranteed under the Warehouse Act. So an amendment is being tabled which brings the legislative text into line with the comments. The bill implements the decision we made in the energy conciliation group in November 2014 to extend the existing biomass scheme from 35 to 85 plants, as the various rapporteurs have also mentioned, specifically taking into account the financial framework of the 50 natural gas-based district heating networks, which have the highest heat prices. They are now allowed to install a 1 MW biomass-fired boiler and it will be able to significantly reduce their heat prices, also so that the last work of the 50, if you may say so, has a heating price comparable to what you would have with an individual energy source. The amendments to the Building Act will clarify the rules of the Building Regulations on the installation of oil and natural gas for heating buildings. The rules on the installation of oil and natural gas are derived from the 2012 Energy Agreement and the clarification is intended to ensure that the rules on the installation of oil and natural gas can be clearly aligned with the EU's principles on the free movement of goods. Sir. Mikkel Dencker asked questions specifically about that. It is the European Commission that has considered that the rule that we had set out, which prohibited the installation of oil and natural gas pine, would constitute a barrier to the free movement of goods. So it is on the initiative of the European Commission's assessment that we have gone in and propose to change the current wording. I also have to be like Mr. Knox. Mikkel Dencker assumes that this does not open the way for people in a larger style to install coke and coal pine in their newly built homes. We see this as an EU contribution, but not really as a substantive change in relation to what was agreed in the energy agreement. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law today, and I also agree that one of the cornerstones we have had to deal with with this bill is, of course, the Barmark works, but I look forward to continuing discussions on the single elements of the draft law in committee. It is also clear that this is not the end of discussions on the future of district heating after 2018, both in terms of the three-stage tariff and the basic amount. It is now still necessary to say that I believe in principle that the expiry of the basic amount was announced even when we introduced it, and that is why it should expire in 2018, and I agree with Mr. Steen Gade in that what is going to happen after the basic amount is that we are increasingly seeing heat pumps into district heating. As far as Mr. Lilleholt's comments about people who have invested in confidence in the eternal continuation of the tri-edstariff, I have to say that this is not something we have put people in view of, that is, that this rule would not be changed. It is not the case that people have operated in an expectation that it would run a given number of years yet. So in this way no one has invested on the basis of an expectation that this would continue a given number of years. However, we will have the opportunity to discuss all this when we get to work properly on the discussions that are going on about the future of district heating. First of all, I look forward to continuing discussions on this proposal in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410123421	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for short remarks and no one has asked for the floor at all. So the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150410123448	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 92 members: Social Democracy, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut and Javnaðarflokkurin; a group of 87 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party and Sambandsflokkurin. There are recommendations from the groups for election to the Board of the Health Fund, and the names of the elected can be found at www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). The persons concerned are then elected. 1 Lone Møller (appointed by S) 2 Bente Nielsen (appointed by SF) 3 Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen, MF (V) The groups have appointed as alternates: 1 Charlotte Fischer (appointed by RV) 2 Lole Møller (appointed by EL) 3 Birthe Skaarup (appointed by DF)]
ParlaMint-DK_20150410123527	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. Looks like the hall's getting empty, too. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 14 April 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
