ParlaMint-DK_20151120100020	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100026	The matter entered on item 1 of the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. And consent shall be voted on. Each rapporteur may be given one minute to argue for or against. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100107	After all, the procedure we are about to vote on here is to depart from the normal way we legislate, which is to send a legislative proposal for consultation in civil society. In this case, it would mean lawyers, judges, human rights organisations, etc. could be heard. But you drop that, and then you force this bill, which goes so far, in about two days. I think it is deeply undemocratic. And we still need to get a single good argument that the majority of the Folketing will not allow this bill to be properly dealt with, so that the ordinary democratic procedures should of course also apply to this bill, which is even a legislative proposal which is very far-reaching and which is about doing away with something quite fundamental in our society, in a constitutional state, namely that people who are deprived of liberty, of course, have the right to come before a judge. It has happened that this bill, since it was put forward, has received a lot of criticism, among other things. from the Institute for Human Rights. And I would like to quote from the hearing answer which they miraculously submitted despite the quite unreasonable short period of time. The Foundation writes: "It is the Institute's assessment that the proposed rules both on the detention of asylum seekers on entry and on the suspension of the right to justice within 3x24 hours give the government the power to take decisions that would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100250	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then there is a derogation from the Rules of Procedure, so it is a good thing if you just sign up before you wish to speak for a derogation from the Rules of Procedure. We approve of that, but it is a good thing that you just turn yourself in, and you should have. Anyone else want the floor? Yeah, there's a whole row there. Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100313	Thank you. I have submitted to the derogation from the exception to the Rules of Procedure to such an extent, because that is what we are here for. We are here to suspend from Parliament's Rules of Procedure with what a majority will vote in favour of in a few moments the Rules of Procedure we have adopted so that we can comply with quite basic democratic principles on how to let the people, organisations and people to whom our legislation affects hear before we adopt it. Yesterday we held a consultation with the Minister. While we were sitting in the conciliation session, the hearings of the organizations which had been sitting all night working on answers to this legislation were given, in other words during the consultation, why, for the same reason, the Minister could not answer questions about the answers to the hearings. What we are doing now is totally unacceptable from our basic democratic legal principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100412	Thank you. Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100417	It is no secret that we would have liked the government to have tabled this bill much earlier. We've been calling for a comprehensive emergency plan for months. Having said that, we naturally support urgent procedure because the situation is now very uncertain. Unfortunately, Denmark can very quickly find itself in an acute situation much worse than the one we are in now, and the authorities must, of course, be ready to deal with such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100452	Thank you. And then it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100458	Thank you for that, President. Sorry for the confusion and delay. The government has put forward this bill, i.e. this package of measures in this particular area, so that we are better equipped to deal with situations like the one we saw on 5 and 6 September. It is imperative that we have this clear when and if we are in a similar situation. We do not know if such a situation will arise and we do not know when it will happen. It can, in principle, arise tomorrow. And then there is no point in us sitting on our hands in here and not taking the necessary steps to ensure that the authorities have the tools to deal with this situation. It is therefore no longer epoch-making and more landmark that the Danish Parliament should deal urgently with legislative proposals. We have seen this in a number of areas over time. This is absolutely essential, and that is why we warmly support this speedy treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100555	Thank you. And then it's sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100601	Thank you for the floor. As I also said at first reading, and I would like to repeat this here at second reading and for the vote on whether or not to grant derogations, we in the Danish People's Party feel that it is important that the draft law be dealt with urgently, among other things. That is why we do not know what will happen in a very short time. It may be that the Swedish asylum system is collapsing. It may be that the German asylum system is collapsing. It may be that there are other reasons why there will suddenly be a great reputation in Denmark for thousands of illegal immigrants. And then the authorities must have the tools needed to deal with the situation. What we saw at the beginning of September was not worthy of the rule of law. Then there was no order, and that is why we will have to do better if that happens again some other time. Against this background, we believe it is necessary for the legislative proposal to be dealt with and adopted as soon as possible, so that the authorities can, of course, deal with such a situation if it arises again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100653	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100700	Thank you. I mean, I think it's hard to stand up here and see that we are dealing urgently with something as important as the legislative proposal that is on the agenda here later today. I do not think it is right for our democracy to suspend the Rules of Procedure in this way. We have already heard from the Lawyers' Council and from the Institute for Human Rights, which unanimously says that these proposals contain considerations, constraints and considerations which should have the opportunity to be dealt with far, far more thoroughly. So I think that in the Danish Parliament we should be able to do better. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100741	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100746	The other day we said no to this urgent procedure with the argument that we think it is an undemocratic process, that we think it is absolutely crucial that we are allowed to qualify legislation, that we have time to read it and that we listen to organisations that have more understanding of this than we do. I was hoping that in the subsequent debates on the legislative proposal I could get some answers, but I have not been able to get an answer as to when this is an extraordinary situation, that is when the draft law will apply. I haven't been able to get an answer to who it is that is supposed to be the private guard who should be able to handcuff people. I have not been able to get an answer on how long people must be detained. There are no answers, and all the while judges, lawyers and the Institute of Human Rights have said no to this process. You have said that this is an undemocratic process. That is why we are still saying no to urgent treatment here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100839	No one else has the opportunity to speak, and that is why we can now vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120100845	We shall proceed to the vote. Has everyone voted? That concludes the vote. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 25 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal [for derogation under Article 42 of the Danish Parliament's Rules of Procedure] has been adopted. We're gonna have to ask for some peace up in the gallery. I shall postpone the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120101047	We'll resume the meeting. Is there anyone who would like to speak? There isn't. Yes, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120101121	I would like to start by saying something about the procedure for dealing with this bill. It may sound a little boring. What kind of procedure is that? And we don't do that with this legislation. We still lack a single good argument as to why this legislation should be rushed through in just over two days. Why can't all the people we normally listen to be heard? Why can't the judges be heard? Why can't the lawyers be heard? Why must not all the organisations to which we normally listen be heard? Thursday's consultation clearly showed that there are still a great many outstanding issues concerning this bill. I think that the Institute for Human Rights' criticism is so sharp that it deserves to be read out. The Foundation writes: "It is the Institute's assessment that the proposed rules both on the detention of asylum seekers on entry and on the suspension of the right to justice within 3 x 24 hours give the government the power to take decisions that would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. I find it appalling that such a clear conclusion from the Institute for Human Rights does not cause either the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives or the Social Democrats to shake their hands; that not so clear a conclusion makes the parties think that it may not be such a good idea to slop and rush through such far-reaching legislation. The Institute for Human Rights does not throw itself around with accusations of human rights violations, but they say quite clearly that if this bill is adopted, the government will be given the authority to take action that is contrary to our international obligations, which are contrary to human rights. I do not find it strange that the Danish People's Party is completely indifferent to such criticism, but I find it frightening that the Socialists are still implementing this urgent procedure. I find it frightening that the Left is implementing this urgent procedure; I find it frightening that the Liberal Alliance is repeating the name: Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives are implementing this urgent procedure. One should accuse the Left of false marketing when they call themselves the Liberal Party of Denmark. To the substance of the matter, if this bill is adopted, it will be legal in Denmark to detain foreigners indefinitely without letting them appear before a judge. There will be no upper ceiling for how long a person must sit in prison without coming before a judge. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has made this absolutely clear during the debates. The Foreign Minister has said quite clearly and openly: there is no upper ceiling for how long we can imprison people without they being given the right to appear before a judge. At the meeting with the Minister yesterday, it even came out that this also applies to children. This law also allows children to be detained without any upper ceiling for how long they can sit in detention without having to appear before a judge. Then I have had the pleasure of discussing with the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Marcus Knuth, and Mr. Marcus Knuth's best argument was apparently to say: but does Mrs Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen not trust the authorities? Mrs Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen does not trust the authorities! Well, why don't you stop having courts at all? Well, why don't you think about where that argument is taking us? Try to consider what types of totalitarian societies are said to citizens: No, you cannot have rights. You don't have the right to come before a judge, you don't trust the authorities? Once again, I must say: imagine that Denmark's liberal party can come up with a complete removal of the individual's protection from the state, from the authorities. Another element of this bill is that private companies should be able to take over tasks from the police, including guarding asylum seekers. According to the Social Democrats and the government, these private companies must have the power to use physical power, physical detention, handcuffs. I have asked the Foreign Minister if at least there are some training requirements for the guards of these private companies who are about to handcuff people, in other words refugees. I'm not even talking about criminals, we're talking about people who have fled Assad's barrel bombs, people who have fled the Islamic State. The government and the Social Democrats will now give private companies the power to physically detain these people and use handcuffs. I have asked the Minister whether, in particular, training is required for the guards of these private companies, who must have the competence to use physical force against refugees. No's the answer. No, as a starting point, there are no training requirements. So there is no requirement that they should have a first aid course, that they should be trained guards, that they should have training in conflict management, conflict resolution. I think that everyone, if they think so, can remember some of the terrible things that have been going on, where it has had violent consequences that some people have been put in a leglock, have been physically maintained. It has been trained police officers, well-educated police officers who have been in those situations. The government and the Social Democrats will now give the uneducated guards of private companies the power to use that power against refugees. I mean, it's scandalous. In conclusion, there are also some elements in this proposal which are about creating a better opportunity to accommodate refugees in abandoned schools and nursing homes, for example, and I think that is quite fine. But that must also mean that all the thoughts of the Minister and the government that refugees are going to live in tents in Denmark this winter are being dropped. I have heard that snow is coming this weekend, and I have also heard that the Minister's tent camp is about to be ready. The fact that refugees are now better accommodated in abandoned schools and nursing homes must mean that all plans for refugees who come to Denmark to live in tents must be dropped unless the only purpose of letting refugees who have come all the way to Denmark, who have finally come to safety, remember what they are fleeing from residents in tents is to scare them away and say: 'Well, can't you go somewhere else?' Oh, that's awkward. There is a world-historical refugee crisis, don't come to Denmark, we don't want anything to do with that. But it may be that that is the purpose. I would ask that this bill be sent back to committee between the second and third readings, and I would like to do so, among other things. in order to table an amendment which seeks to speed up the entry into force of the sunset clause proposed by the government, which is due to enter into force in four years' time, i.e. to repeal the legislation in four years' time. I would also like to say that we are voting in favour of the bill or amendment which means that this law will cease to work after four years. But I am actually appalled by what is going on in the Folketing these days. I am appalled by the undemocratic method used by the majority to impose such far-reaching legislation; legislation that has such profound implications for our legal certainty, for our community of law. And I am appalled that the Social Democrats, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives can come up with legislation in Denmark which means that people can be detained without the right to appear before a judge within a certain period of time; that children can be detained without the right to appear before a judge within a limited period of time. Because it is not worthy of a democratic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102022	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102034	Thank you. I therefore agree that it is sad for democracy, but I am now thinking more of the performance that was in the gallery not so terribly long ago. That is what is sad for democracy, and in this connection let me commend the staff of the Danish Parliament for their work there. This is not an undemocratic bill at all. Three-quarters will vote in favour of urgency, three-quarters will probably end up voting in favour of the legislative proposal. I think we should get our priorities straight. There are some things you need to have in place in this Chamber. It is our first task to take care of Denmark that is our first task. That must be why you engage in politics; that must be why you try to be elected to the Folketing; and that must be why some people give you their trust and vote for you for a parliamentary election, because they have an expectation that you will make an effort to look after Denmark. Then we are in the midst of perhaps the most serious migrant crisis we have ever seen, a regular migration, which has been going on for months now. It has been going on for a long time, but it has really speeded up in the last few months, and then there will be a legislative proposal which is basically about if we are again in the situation where thousands of illegal immigrants cross the Danish border, will go on motorways, go on train tracks, the police do not have the tools to intervene against them, do not have the tools to ensure order in Danish society, and then there are parties in here who will refuse to provide the authorities with the tools. Well, that's what's irresponsible. So I think you should just drop your outrage, and I think you should get in the game. Europe is in the midst of a deep, deep identity crisis, and if the best thing to do to show its opposition to that identity crisis is a consultation response from the Institute for Human Rights, then it is a very thin round.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102236	Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102240	I understand, sir. Martin Henriksen is greatly outraged that some refugees have gone on Danish motorways because it is illegal to go on motorways. I just want to say, what do you think, sir? Martin Henriksen is really the worst way to get up in the helicopter and get the big perspective that there are some people who have gone on Danish motorways, where you cannot go, I recognize that, or that there are millions of people who are forced to flee, among other things. Because of the brutal cynicism of fundamentalist Islamists in the Islamic State? This is just too few proportions into the debate: what does Mr. Martin Henriksen personally is the worst, one thing or the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102327	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102328	I think the worst thing is that Enhedslisten doesn't take responsibility. That's the worst part.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102333	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102334	It's actually a little shocking that Mr. Martin Henriksen can't answer that question, but just such nonsense about, that is, that Mr. Martin Henriksen cannot give the obvious answer: of course it is far more serious that there are millions of people whose lives are in danger because they are fleeing from the Islamic State than there are some thousands who go on a motorway. I'm gonna need to hear sir. Martin Henriksen: Is it correct to understand that the Danish People's Party is completely indifferent to the fact that children can now be detained without any upper limit as to when they can come before a judge? Is it true that you don't give a shit about that state of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102410	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102412	No, the Danish People's Party doesn't care. On the contrary, I think that you should get things in place and see things in the right perspective. The fact is that Denmark, and also other European countries, has, for many decades, received a very, very large influx, an influx which in many ways tears our Denmark apart, creates frustration in the population, creates tensions in the population, increased crime among certain groups of people. That is what is happening, and that is what has happened over many years, and now we need to find some better ways to deal with it. In fact, I believe that this is what the Danes said when they voted in the parliamentary elections, that they want some better ways of dealing with it, that if chaotic conditions arise again, they want the authorities to have a tool to intervene and ensure and maintain order in Danish society, and it is the Danish Parliament's job to help the authorities with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102500	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102505	The rapporteur says that Europe is in a deep identity crisis, and I agree with that. I mean, identity is one thing, but to talk about a crisis that almost presupposes martial law in the countries where democratic procedures are put out of effect, I can't tell by God one can see. I think it is a wild overreaction that we do not even have time to implement the democratic procedures we have in adopting a legislative proposal. Then you can mean anything about the laws you have. But we must not prevent Danes from expressing their opinion to politicians in such a serious situation. If we were really in a serious situation, then there is a double reason why the Danes should be allowed to say their opinion before we make the legislation. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102557	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102558	Well, I just think there's something that Enhedslisten has basically misunderstood. We are not putting democracy out of effect. I don't even know why, sir. Christian Juhl says so. What does Mr. Christian Juhl with that? There are some procedures here in the Danish Parliament, and if you want to deal urgently with a bill in the Danish Parliament, it is possible to do so. That is not the general rule, it is the exception, but if three-quarters of the members of the Folketing support it, then you can. It's completely by the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102626	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102627	That is according to the rules, yes, but there has to be an explanation why you do it, and I have not yet heard a single explanation. In other words, because someone in the European Union is in an identity crisis, we cannot put all things out of hand and deal urgently with various legislative proposals. There is nothing in Denmark that is currently under threat, and we could easily spend the weeks needed to adopt the legislative proposals that Mr. Martin Henriksen may want to get through. However, confront yourself with those voters who want to express their opinion to Mr. Martin Henriksen. It was the least you could do, but you don't. For so pathetic and so cowardly is the fact that you don't even dare to go out and have a discussion before you pass the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102711	Thank you, and you don't address each other directly in here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102715	That was a fine speech, I must say. I don't know if it was prepared, but it almost must have been, because it was really well done. I mean, honestly, can't you do better than that? Actually, I think it's a little embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102736	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102740	Well, then I'll try to do better, even though it may not be possible as a new member of parliament. I actually thought I'd been elected to a democratic assembly. I have, of course, been given such a fine handbook which, like that, outlines how the legislative processes are running, and it is very good that there are first, second and third readings. I myself, while I have been in this room, have seen a first-reading of some legislative proposals that had been in consultation for four weeks before they come to the Folketing, and then there are some processes where we can have a dialogue and some involvement, and where we have the opportunity to have a political dialogue and perhaps come to change something in the bill. I have also experienced twice that a minister has tabled amendments to his own legislative proposal because one question had helped the Minister to find out that something had to be changed, and I think that is actually a good process, a good democratic process. I would like to hear from the rapporteur, who has, like him, downgraded one of the consultation responses, how many hearings the rapporteur has read on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102839	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102841	I have read two of the hearings which have been received and which I have had the opportunity to read. It may be that some others have been received since then, and I shall be happy to read them. Now it is the case in a democracy that you can risk being voted down, it happens, and that is how it is, and that is what Enhedslisten has been exposed to, and therefore Enhedslisten must accept that. It's just a problem here. That is fair enough, and it is quite all right to disagree with the legislative proposal, but you just have to answer what you want to replace. What are you going to do on the day when thousands of illegal migrants suddenly arrive, and that is not just something we imagine from the Danish People's Party or from the other parties, because it has actually just happened? What will Enhedslisten do then? Are we just gonna let it go? Are we just gonna stand there and watch like they did last time? We do not want that from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102932	Here you go for a new question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120102933	Basically, I do not object to being in a minority sometimes, but I think that a prerequisite for being satisfied with it is that one has first had a real, open process, a democratic process in which all the arguments have been reversed. What's the problem with this case is that sir... Martin Henriksen has read two hearings, and this is an abnormally small number of hearings in such a complicated case. I would like to appeal to the politicians to spend a little more time reading Amnesty International's reply, and I would like to know whether Mr. Martin Henriksen has some reflections in relation to the criticism of legal certainty outlined in Amnesty International's hearing response.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103013	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103014	Well, it's one of the two hearing answers that have been received, so I've read that. But I do not agree, and that is also part of it. What we believe from the Danish People's Party is that if a situation arises again where thousands of illegal immigrants enter Denmark, then the authorities need some tools to deal with that situation. Last time it didn't look too pretty. We saw examples of people being detained and all of a sudden they were released where they actually went directly into the arms of in some cases gang members, salafists and ordinary citizens who wanted to act as smugglers for a day or for a week, and that is not right. That is what is not worthy of a legal society, and that is what we must avoid if a similar situation arises again and there we have a solution. The Enhedslisten has no solution, and that is quite all right, but that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103059	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103105	I'd like to know if Mr. Martin Henriksen thinks it is a good idea, overall, that civil society organisations, as they so well call it, actually have an opportunity to speak, to deliver a hearing response. Mr. Martin Henriksen, that's a good idea? And is that something, sir? Martin Henriksen usually makes use of when there are legal proceedings? So, in the Danish People's Party, you use the opportunity to read the hearing answers, and you take in what is said outside Christiansborg's walls?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103151	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103153	I think it is a good procedure that we have here in Parliament, where legislative proposals are submitted for consultation and where there are first, second and third readings and plenty of time for committee reading. I think that is a good procedure in this Parliament. That is the general rule and the general rule must apply in the long, by far most cases in here. Then there is sometimes an opportunity to get some things in place • things that need to be put in place, especially if the Swedish asylum system or the German asylum system collapses in a relatively short period of time. And then you sometimes have to derogate from the general rule in order to get to where you can give the authorities the tools that we in the Danish People's Party and others in here consider necessary to give the authorities. So there is a general rule, and that is the starting point. Sometimes one deviates from the rule, as one does so many other times in life's relationship. That's the way it is. This is an extraordinary situation, and sometimes we also have to accept that things will get through quickly in the Parliamentary Chamber. But that is the exception rather than the general rule, and so it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103249	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103250	I think that is at least a good thing to hear from the Danish People's Party: there is such a rule that you want to listen to other people. Could I have a few minutes, and maybe I haven't understood it yet? Martin Henriksen and Dansk Folkeparti on what is happening in, for example, Denmark. Just the next week, as can be seen in the crystal ball, will happen within the next week, which means that we cannot hear organisations, that we cannot get proper questions asked, that we cannot have a normal process? What is happening within the next week? The roof's gonna roll over our heads?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103331	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103332	But that is the difference between Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti. In the Danish People's Party we have registered it has Enhedslisten so apparently not registered that we are in a deep migrant crisis that there is not much control in Europe. External borders are not working. The internal borders between countries in relation to monitoring who comes and goes do not work either. That is the situation now. There are plenty of people who are a regular migration towards Europe. That is the situation we are in, and we need to respond to that. And we cannot always react to that quickly enough by waiting for the consultation process as usual. That is the answer, and if Enhedslisten has another answer on how to deal with the migrant crisis, you are welcome to come forward with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103414	Thank you. You don't yell from down the hall. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103422	Dansk Folkeparti writes in his report's contribution to this bill on the situation at the beginning of September: "It was not worthy of a community of law. Will the rapporteur clarify why it is not considered that the government's handling was worthy of a community based on the rule of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103441	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103443	In other words, I think it is clear to everyone, at least most, who saw what happened in those days, that there was little control, that there was not enough political governance, not even on the part of the government. Some priorities were made, there were some decisions that we disagreed with by the Danish People's Party and where we thought there should have been clear guidelines for the authorities. An example could be that a large number of illegal migrants were released. There you could have run some test cases in the courts in order to send out a clear signal that it has some consequences, that you are staying illegally in Denmark and do not want to indicate whether you want asylum, do not want to give your name, etc., that you do not want to register. There you could have sent some clear signals. There you could have handled it better. Then the government said it was handled right after the book. We do not agree with that on the part of the Danish People's Party, but we do agree that the authorities must have better tools to deal with it if a similar situation arises again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103538	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103540	So the Danish People's Party believes it was a mistake on the part of the government that they did not choose to lock up the refugees and leave them locked up and try it in the courts after 3 days? Is that what the rapporteur is saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103555	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103557	After all, the existing legal basis could not have kept people for longer than three days, but with the existing legal basis, for example, you could have run some trials in the courts to see if some of them could have been detained for longer, if only to make an example. Because it should of course have consequences when you are staying illegally in Denmark, because it may come as a surprise to some in here that it is actually illegal to stay illegally in Denmark. Anything else would be a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103624	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103628	Thank you. I am also concerned with the Danish People's Party's contribution to the report, where the Danish People's Party writes that hundreds of illegal immigrants ran directly to salafists and gang members who acted as smugglers. But I am particularly concerned about the fact that it was not worthy of a rule of law. I would like the rapporteur to clarify what the rapporteur means by a legal society in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103700	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103701	A rule of law is a lot of things. It acts among other things. on fundamental fundamental freedoms; it is about the fact that if there is a situation where there is chaos and where there are conditions where it is difficult to ensure that law-abiding citizens can travel where they normally move in Danish society, then the police and the authorities also have tools to guarantee the rights of law-abiding citizens. Then I think it is highly questionable that authorities are releasing people who are illegally staying in Denmark, and they then more or less directly go out to some who have a criminal background which then transports them through Denmark, perhaps to Sweden, perhaps to other places we basically do not know. I find that very problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103749	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103751	I am pleased that the rapporteur confirmed that a community based on the rule of law, among other things. has to do with fundamental freedoms. These are, of course, the freedoms which the rapporteur will now help to deprive other people of unlimited time. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103809	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103810	In such a discussion, I think it is important to make it clear that there is a difference between whether you are a Danish citizen or not a Danish citizen. There is a difference between whether you are legally resident in Denmark or not legally resident in Denmark. So there is a set of legal principles for Danish citizens and another set of legal principles for foreign citizens and people staying illegally in Denmark. It is perfectly legitimate for a nation state and a national parliament to make a difference in this way. Anything else would actually be weird. Then you say in the Danish alien law you don't even have to say it, but you actually do that that foreigners can come before a judge within 3 days. That rule is firm, and in exceptional situations you can then depart from that rule in order to maintain order. That's very reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103851	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120103854	Thank you. I think it is a pity that the rapporteur is spending so much time attacking back and saying that Enhedslisten has no answer, that Enhedslisten is not taking this seriously. I do not think that there are any parties here in the Folketing who do not recognise that we are in a serious situation where we have an historically large flow of refugees out of Syria because there are absolutely terrible conditions there. The rapporteur then believes that the problem, which is a huge problem, can be solved by Denmark making a number of tightenings. I don't think it can. I believe that these restrictions will be repeated in our neighbouring countries, which means that, if I may say so, we will get into a competition down to the bottom, we will wipe the refugees off the neighbouring countries and then, by the way, it will cancel the effect of what the rapporteur thinks is working. What Enhedslisten has proposed is something else, namely that we have a distribution mechanism in Europe, which means that those countries that take very little responsibility today, and it is not Denmark, we actually take a relatively large responsibility, but many countries do not have to take co-responsibility. That is our solution, I would say to the rapporteur. So don't say that Enhedslisten doesn't have an answer. I would just like to ask: can the rapporteur confirm that the people who are fleeing...
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104008	That question will have to wait because the speaking time has been exceeded. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104012	Thank you. But it is quite all right that the Enhedslisten believes that we should have a European distribution key. That's fair enough. It will not limit the flow, but it will probably make it easier to move around Europe, which is why we in the Danish People's Party do not think it is a particularly good idea. But even if you want such a European scale, it must also be assumed that you will have control of where people are, that is, if you want to distribute them. That then requires the authorities to have the tools to control them. So whether you choose one solution or the other solution, you have to be able to agree that we need to control where people are staying.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104046	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Pelle Dragsted the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104048	In his speech, the rapporteur made a great deal of reference to the fact that this is about an identity crisis and other things and about these Islamic forces and other things, and we fully share in the Enhedslisten the opposition to the unpleasant Islamic forces. I just think it is some of the things that can strengthen the forces in Denmark; that is one of the things I hear as Hizb ut-Tahrir says, namely: Look, your democracy is not right; you constantly make exceptions to it. Is the rapporteur not concerned about selling out some of the basic legal principles and that it can actually have the opposite effect of what the rapporteur wants and support the arguments used by Salafists and other reactionary groups to recruit young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104133	Thank you, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104134	It is, of course, quite all right that Enhedslisten attach great importance to Hizb ut-Tahrir and other extreme groups and their arguments. The Enhedslisten is free to do so. We do not attach much importance to their arguments. Moreover, I think it is an excellent legal principle that we have in our constitution, that is to say that it is possible to ban associations which act by violence or which call for violence. This could be done appropriately with Hizb ut-Tahrir and similar groupings. I think it is extremely important to maintain our democracy, which is why we must also fight for it, and we must also give the authorities the tools that are necessary. However, if a democracy is to work, it must also be able to set a framework, and it must also be able to set limits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104218	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104229	Thank you. I am a little curious as to how much really needs to be done before the extraordinary situation and these things come into force. What is the rapporteur's assessment there? Would this have come into force when we saw the things that happened down in Rødby, if it were up to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104239	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104241	I certainly believe that these powers and regulations should have been applied if they existed when we saw what happened at the beginning of September absolutely. There may be different political assessments of this, but it is the assessment of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104256	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104258	Thank you. So, in the view of the rapporteur, it is the number that is needed before there is an exceptional situation. So I would like to hear: if you were to detain all those whom the rapporteur calls illegal and had also done so during the incident down in Rødby, would that not have led to much more asylum seekers coming to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104317	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104319	It's hard to tell. That's the way it is with questions like that. It could also have had a deterrent effect, compared to there being no more who wanted to use Denmark as a transit country, and then no more who wanted to come to Denmark and apply for asylum. Nor should I conceal the fact that if it were up to the Danish People's Party, this was not the final answer to how to deal with such a situation. In other words, we would like the Danish People's Party to have a permanent and permanent border control, where there was also the possibility of rejecting people if they came from Germany, on the grounds that they came from a safe country and that they therefore had to seek asylum there instead of using many European countries as transit countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104355	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104359	Thank you. Having listened to the rapporteur's speech, I think that there is a question that arises and that I would like clarification on. It is the simple question whether the Danish People's Party really believes that we in Denmark should respect human rights. I have to say that I have serious doubts after listening to the rapporteur's speech and criticism of the Institute for Human Rights. So, yes or no, should Denmark respect human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104429	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104430	It is always a good idea to observe the agreements that have been made with others, including international agreements. So I think that should be the starting point. However, we can work to change the agreements, including the conventions. And if you have a peak load, where you can say that there is an assessment of what is right for Denmark, i.e. if you should do so, even if you are unsure if it violates international conventions, then of course you should ultimately do what you think is right for Denmark. But Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is well aware that the three-day rule that we have in Denmark at least as far as I have been informed is in fact an example of Denmark going further in relation to the demands made in the European Convention on Human Rights. So if we completely abolished the three-day rule, I'm not saying that you have to go, then Denmark's obligations to the European Convention on Human Rights would in fact still be maintained. So, I don't know if Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen wants to lift the rule "no," but it could be. I would just like to say that Denmark actually goes further in relation to the international conventions in a number of areas, and it is not always necessary to do so. But we actually do. That's why you often draw a scare picture; at least you try to do it. Actually, I think you shouldn't do that, because it's out of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104540	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104541	Okay, so the Danish People's Party will not violate human rights, but will change the human rights conventions. After all, we have these conventions and these human rights in order to protect citizens from hasty and cynical decisions by politicians who are then going to go beyond children and vulnerable groups, that is, exactly what the Institute of Human Rights is now warning against. After all, the Institute for Human Rights warns against the content of the legislation which the Danish People's Party is trying to adopt here in the Danish Parliament today. So I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Since you are in such a hurry, could it be that you really do not want to hear the truth from the Institute for Human Rights, namely that you are breaking the international human rights conventions with this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104636	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104637	The Constitution is, of course, protected against, if you are to put it that way, some politicians are going to commit some abuse. The Constitution is the Danes' protection against it. It is the Constitution that we trust from the Danish People's Party, and Enhedslisten should do so much more. We have a good constitution. Then I'll just have to challenge that, too. Nikolaj Villumsen says this about protecting citizens. If you enter Denmark illegally, stay illegally in Denmark, you are not really a citizen of Denmark. Then you have moved into Denmark illegally, and there are other rules than if you are a Danish citizen of Denmark. That's the way it is. I do not know whether it is Enhedslisten's policy that everyone who comes to Denmark should be equal to Danish citizens. It would have quite far-reaching consequences if it were to be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104720	Thank you. Then there are two who wanted to make brief comments, namely Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left, and Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. And then there will be no further brief comments. Then I'll tell you, sir. Henrik Dahl, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk and Mr. Jacob Mark has subsequently signed up as rapporteurs, and if there are more who want to go up as rapporteur, we would very much like to know that up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104749	I just need to be sure that I understand the rapporteur correctly. Well, it was a mistake that the government didn't give the order to hold people back when they walked on the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104758	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104759	In our opinion, the mistake was that no cases were taken and then tried them in the courts. That, in our view, was the mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104808	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104811	So the consequence of it would be if it had gone after the head of the Danish People's Party that we had not seen policemen who hugged the children on the road. Then we'd have seen policemen who had taken them and held them back.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104823	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104825	I think it's extremely superficial. It is, of course, doing well on television, i.e. such individual situations with police officers who give huggers. I have the view of Danish policemen that they handle their work well and professionally. When you are faced with another person, whether it is in a migrant crisis or what it is under, there are some relations between two people, and if there is a policeman who gives a hug to a refugee, then there is no problem in that. But it is just a little different from the one we have here, which is about how to give the authorities the tools to maintain order in a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104903	Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104908	Thank you very much. In one of Amnesty's comments on the bill, they say: "It is clear that it has been ignored whether there could be other solutions to bottleneck problems than relaxing some of the most important principles of a community governed by the rule of law. • Amnesty suggests one solution • there might also be others who could be involving all the country's city courts in the task of checking the legality of the detentions by using video transmissions of the hearings, so that the detention person did not need to be transported over long distances to the nearest court. Could it not have been possible to envisage other ways of solving the problem of the sudden arrival of a very, very large influx into Denmark than to relax some of the most important principles of a community governed by the rule of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104958	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120104959	So I do not accept the premise of the question, because I simply do not agree that we are relaxing the fundamental principles of a legal society. I simply do not agree with the premise of the question. This is our idea of how to deal with the fact that in the past there has been an acute migrant crisis, and it is still there, as it were, and how we deal with it, if there are suddenly a lot of people coming into Denmark, then we need to have some methods to deal with it. And, of course, you can imagine that a videoconference or video link between a person and then a judge could be part of the solution, you could imagine that, but that is not what it takes to deal with such a situation in such a decisive way if it arises again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105043	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105045	Does the rapporteur not think that it is an important legal principle to be brought before a judge?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105052	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105053	Yes, but didn't Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk get involved? Is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk not aware of what we are dealing with here today? Well, it is not a matter of Danish citizens suddenly being unable to be brought before a judge. There's nothing in this proposal. You have a constitutional right. It is not a matter of saying that illegal aliens, even though the European Court of Human Rights actually allows you to have an even wider framework, cannot be brought before a judge either. It has something to do with them being put before a judge within three days as it is today, and then, in an emergency, there is an opportunity for you to depart from it, and then you can say: as soon as possible, they will be put before a judge. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105137	Thank you. We are very, very close to having also slightly exceeded the limit for the short remarks. Sir. Finn Sørensen is given the floor as the very last one when he had signed in before. But I would ask you to keep to the speaking time, because we also need to move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105152	Then I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his flexibility. My question to the rapporteur is this: does the rapporteur think that it is a fundamental human right, a fundamental principle of legal certainty that separates a society from a police state, that one cannot be detained for an unlimited period without being put before a judge?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105218	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105219	I think it is a sound principle that you should be brought before a judge, and that is what you can continue to be. There will then be some extraordinary situations where one can get to as soon as possible, and that is because the alternative is that perhaps hundreds, thousands of illegal immigrants are released running around in Denmark, and some of them can actually be terrorists, some of them can be deep criminals, some of them can use Denmark as a transit country. We do not know, and when the authorities do not know, the situation is basically not clear. There I just think that we as a parliament and that the Danish Government and the Danish authorities should do what they can to ensure that law-abiding citizens can move freely in Danish society and that they can be reasonably convinced that politicians are doing what is in the public interest. I believe that it is in the interests of the Danes that we are a community of law and that in a society of law there must also be order and order. There's got to be a little bit of control.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105309	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105312	So the rapporteur believes that it is in the interests of the Danes to break with an absolutely fundamental principle of legal certainty, which is that people cannot be detained and, in this case, children, detention them, put them in prison for an unlimited period of time. They must have the opportunity to try their case before a court of law. However, the rapporteur obviously believes that, if we suspect that these people are committing something criminal, we can put an end to such a fundamental principle of legal certainty. What are we going to do with it at all if the authorities are given such power, and are we not on our way to a police state?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105351	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105352	It is quite possible that I am wrong, but I think that many Danes think that what happened at the beginning of September was unworthy in many ways. It wasn't a proper way to deal with it. I believe that a great many Danes have an expectation that both the Folketing and the government and the police and the authorities will do everything they can, including adopting new rules, new powers, new legislation, to ensure that something similar does not happen again, and if it happens again, that you can so relatively quickly take action to ensure that you have control of the people who want to pass through Denmark illegally or who just want to stay in Denmark illegally. I also think that what remains is that it is quite possible that you disagree with what the Danish People's Party and other parties have put forward, but you still have to give a clear answer as to what you want to replace.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105445	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105456	I shall try to be brief, because what calls me on the platform is that, as I hear, an amendment has been tabled on a sunset clause, and I would like to inform the Liberal Alliance of that. However, some other questions have also been put to my party, which I would also like to comment on. It is a problem to depart from Parliament's Rules of Procedure and that is something we are looking at very seriously, but the risk that exists makes us think it is justified. And I am also calling for a discussion of the risk of not revising the law on foreigners, which is, of course, what we are discussing. The situation in Sweden and Germany can change very quickly, and we are entering the cold season, where you can literally die from outdoors if the temperature falls below freezing point. The Liberal Alliance has entered into the debate on the amendments to section 37 of the Aliens Act with a slightly different approach to the one that has appeared in the bill, but we have bowed to the arguments. On the other hand, we have had a four-year sunset clause introduced, and we are very pleased about that. But we do not think that a one-year sunset clause is the right solution. We think that four years is the right solution, and that is why we cannot support the proposal to change the sunset clause to one year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105646	There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105649	Thank you. Can the rapporteur explain to me how a party that calls itself liberal can accept legislation which means that people can be detained without any upper limit for how long a person, including children, can sit in detention without the right to appear before a judge? I ask because I thought the Liberal Alliance was interested in the rights of the individual. One of the hallmarks of the rule of law is that you can not just incarcerate a person and then eat the key or throw it away, or whatever you want, but that you actually have the right to come before a judge. How can you, as a liberal party, support this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105736	You don't use direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105739	What we have gathered to discuss today is a revision of the law on foreigners, and what is at the heart of the dispute is Articles 36 and 37 of the law on foreigners, which deal with administrative detention. There has not been much discussion of this, but that is what we have to vote on at some point. Both § 36 and § 37 of the Aliens Act fall within the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights on Administrative Detention. This is evident from the material transmitted by the Ministry, and we have no comment to make on that. So we're talking about nothing but the revision of these two paragraphs. If and when Article 37 is revised, the revised version of § 37 will still be away within the agreements we have signed under the European Convention on Human Rights, where it includes: It should be pointed out that, since there are no criminals, persons must not be detained with criminals and special consideration must be given to vulnerable groups such as: children. We assume that Denmark will, of course, comply with its obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105848	Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105850	Actually, I don't think I heard an answer. It's a very simple question. This legislation means that there is no upper limit to how long a person can sit in detention without coming before a judge. How can a party that calls itself liberal ever support such legislation? That is contrary to all liberal ideas, it is contrary to all the principles of the rule of law. It is not often that I am completely in line with the CEPOS, but I am in this case, and that is because I care about the rights of the individual, and the fundamental thing for the individual must be that if a state prisons one, then there are limits to how long one can sit in prison before one can have one's case tried. I repeat the question: how can a party that calls itself a liberal vote in favour of legislation which means that there is no upper limit to how long a person can sit in prison without the right to appear before a judge?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120105959	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110002	I hope we're talking about the same bill. Because according to the bill that I have prepared to discuss, any person who is being administratively detained may request that his case be heard by a judge. That is what we need to discuss. According to the European Convention on Human Rights, this must be speedily, in other words as soon as possible, without undue delay. That is also what we are discussing. Thus, the 72 hours in the existing legislation are a form of over-implementation. We assume, of course, that the principle that it is done as quickly as possible and that everyone has the right to ask for his case to be heard will, of course, be respected. That is also what the draft law says.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110044	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110048	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that this is a both controversial and also far-reaching set of legislative changes in this case. The detention of both adults and children is undetermined in time. Is it not both far-reaching and rather controversial to adopt such a law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110113	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110116	The suspension of the general rules will take effect if there are exceptional circumstances; otherwise the rules will apply. The crucial thing that enables us to support the draft law is to maintain the principle that anyone requesting it can have their case heard by a judge. Then there may be bottleneck problems because there is no unlimited number of judges, and that is where we accept it, but, as the Convention says, it must be speedy as soon as possible without undue delay. It is therefore crucial: without undue delay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110157	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110158	That's not what I asked. I asked whether the rapporteur does not think that this is a both controversial and far-reaching set of legislative changes, in relation to what else we normally do in Denmark. The rapporteur himself said that there was a risk in this situation I do not know what the risk is; if the risk is, Mr President. Martin Henriksen mentioned that people are going on Danish motorways, so I think it is easy to understand and that is why I think that such controversial and far-reaching legislation almost requires that we have a period of consultation and have time to ask specialists and ordinary people if they can say their opinion. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110235	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110236	The legislation we have to adopt today remains within the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights, and I do not regard it as far-reaching to remain within it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110246	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110250	Thank you. I can understand that, sir. Henrik Dahl's own updates that Mr. Henrik Dahl is very proud to disagree with the Radical Left, so much so that he justifies his position on this bill alone with the disagreement with the Radical Left. As Mr. Henrik Dahl will also have noticed, I quoted Mrs Thatcher on the occasion which, of course, said: If they attack one personally, it means they have not a single political argument left. I have not noticed that the rapporteur has either. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that this pride outweighs the support of the Liberal Alliance for a legislative proposal that abolishes the rule of law in the form of a warrant for detention. Is this enough for the rapporteur to weigh up the loss of liberal innocence that the Liberal Alliance is now contributing to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110358	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110359	It's very difficult to explain jokes to people with no sense of humor, so I have to refrain from that. What is crucial for us in political terms is that the proposed legislative changes remain within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights, and we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110418	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110422	Thank you. I think it was extremely witty of the rapporteur to justify his political arguments with a disagreement with another party, which is why I thank him for his jokes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110439	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110444	I did not sense that there was a question here, but I am pleased that I was able to entertain the Radical Left rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110453	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110457	I hear the rapporteur say: we are assuming that we have confidence in • and a number of other such wordings. But do we not, we who have been elected here, have a special responsibility to guarantee human rights, citizens' rights in this case foreign citizens, but it is, in fact, a matter of secondary importance when we talk about the European Convention on Human Rights vis-à-vis the state? Well, I disagree with the Liberal Alliance on a lot of things, but exactly in this area we tend to stand side by side because we always consider that citizens' rights must be stronger than what the state and politicians can do. Is it not at all a matter of concern to the rapporteur that typical allies of the Liberal Alliance, such as the CEPOS and Justitia and others, say so clearly that this is a breach of fundamental legal principles when we override the possibility of being brought before a judge or at least make it unclear when it should happen? Is it not such a fundamental right that we take away from the people who are affected by it that it is something that concerns the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110613	After all, the European Convention on Human Rights is a well-developed system which has been adopted by a large number of countries, and of course I am very pleased about that, as I suppose the rapporteur is. As long as the proposed amendment of the law remains within the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights, I do not see the problem of adopting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110630	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110634	But now it is just the case that the main experts we have here in Denmark in this area say that it does not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights, that Denmark is in danger of being in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights. I know that the government's lawyers say otherwise, but this would not be the first time that the government's lawyers have said something that will not be true afterwards. So does it not worry the rapporteur that we have experts who say that the Danish Liberal Party is heading into something that can break the fundamental human rights of its citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110716	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110718	I and my party have full confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110723	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110726	I have to say that I agree with the choir of people who, on a more ideological level, are somewhat puzzled by the fact that, as a liberal party, they support a proposal which so openly shifts the weight of the individual's rights to the rights of the state and the system. I cannot reconcile that at all with what the Liberal Alliance stands for for me. But I would really like to ask a question about the practical effects the proposal will have: Well, if we imagine that this would have been law now, since we had a large influx of refugees... which I think the Danish police and authorities actually handled very well... Henrik Dahl would have liked all the refugees on the ferries to have been apprehended and interned indefinitely? That is clearly the purpose of the proposal. Would that have been a better approach, as Mr. Henrik Dahl sees it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110824	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110825	In September, on 5 and 6 September, it was by no means all the people who came to Denmark who were subject to the provisions of Article 36 of the Aliens Act. So it was only those who were covered by §36 that at that time would have become, what should we say, affected by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110858	Sir. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110902	The problem is, we can't quite know that. So I just have to repeat the question. Henrik Dahl, that the police, if we get into a similar situation as we were on 5 and 6 September, will arrest all refugees who come to Denmark in one way or another to register them, provide them, etc., but that it is better that they be interned immediately when they arrive in Denmark, indefinitely?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110927	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110929	I am not going to be wise about the police, but I want the revised section 36 to be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110937	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120110939	Thank you. Does the rapporteur have the impression that the Court of Justice has been criticized, that the President of the Court of Justice has spoken out and I quote verbatim: the proposal is too far-reaching, it is almost like throwing away the key, it is contrary to everything we have done so far in Denmark? And does it make the impression that the Lawyer Society has also criticised this massively? Does it make the impression that CEPOS's chief lawyer has strongly criticised this, that Jacob Mchhangama of Justitia has strongly criticised this, that law professor Eva Smith has criticized it and even said that in her optics as a law professor, this is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111030	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111032	Judges are cautious people who not only wear belts and belts, but also elastic trousers, and that is of course fine, and I fully understand that. I am convinced that the revised draft law respects the European Convention on Human Rights and that is the starting point for my position. But I do recognize the Court's cautious approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111057	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111102	Does the rapporteur think that, in the event that Denmark is brought before the Court of Justice and possibly gets a judgment not to respect fundamental human rights, freedoms and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, what would it be desirable to be in? It can be said that conventions are something we sign on the basis of what should we say?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111138	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111140	It is only excellent that the system that can impose breaches of the convention, etc., works, and if it falls to Denmark's disadvantage, we must, of course, abide by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111153	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111157	Thank you. Down in our little drawers, here, where we sit, lies the Basic Law of the Danish Empire. In Section 71, paragraph 1, the following paragraph is added: 3, I think it is, it says a description of what we call a constitutional inquiry every day, i.e. within 24 hours, if you are imprisoned by the authorities, you must be brought before an independent judge who will then have to assess whether you should continue to be imprisoned and set a time limit for how long you can be imprisoned. I have two questions for that. 1) What does the Liberal Alliance think of that provision? 2) Is it such that it is a right that you have when you are imprisoned, or is it such that it is a requirement to the authorities that they should be able to Henrik Dahl answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111259	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111301	It is very, very nice to spend Friday morning discussing everything, but what we are gathered to discuss is a revision of the Aliens Act. The rules on administrative detention are different from those referred to by the Constitution. The existing legal status of administrative detention, which is, after all, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, operates with a number of other deadlines, and this is not a matter of imprisonment. This is among other things. That is why detained persons must not be interned with prisoners because they have not been arrested. So, of course, we have to comply with the Basic Law, but administrative detention and the acquis that are around it is something else. It is another acquis, and that is what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111346	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111349	I think it is just good enough to say that there is no relationship here in any way. What is interesting and is the reason why I am asking is, of course, that there are two things in the constitution that are worth paying attention to: two things that we cannot change in here, even though we are the elected representatives and the legislature. One is that if you are arrested, you must be presented to a judge; it is not something you should ask for; it is not a right you should demand, which you may also be threatened not to demand or perhaps not understand that you have it is something that must and something else that must happen is that the judge should set a time limit. The two rights are in our constitution for Danish citizens, and the two rights you remove for people who are not yet full citizens but are staying in our country. How, though, can one as a liberal party in this way...
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111446	Thank you to the rapporteur. And you don't use direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111450	There is no link whatsoever between the provisions of the Constitution which give rise to the right of constitutional inquiry and the rules governing administrative detention. The legal situation as we stand and speak together would be contrary to the Constitution if it were subject to the same provisions, and the Enhedslisten has had ample opportunity to complain about these things, but has not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111513	Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111517	With the bill, the government will have the opportunity to imprison people without a predetermined time limit for their being brought before a judge. How does the rapporteur usually characterise such communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111547	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111550	The legal situation in relation to administrative detention already operates with 72 hours of detention. It is not, of course, a matter of being arrested or charged with a crime if you are detained. According to Section 36 of the Aliens Act, it is a question of examining matters relating to entry or exit. And the way in which both the present and proposed amendment of the law is based on the European Convention on Human Rights and the Danish Constitution. So I find it very difficult to see the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111627	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111630	I do not think I quite caught what the rapporteur would describe it as. If you look at what it says about the concept of a police state, you can read that a police state is the name of a society in which the police have access to arrests, searches and interrogations without special justification. In such a society, the authorities can imprison people for unlimited time without trial and judgment. Since legislation is now being introduced so that people can be detained without a time limit, is the rapporteur not concerned that someone might describe Denmark as one of the countries which falls under such a term?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111716	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111719	What we are discussing is a revision of Article 35 and Article 37 of the Aliens Act and nothing else. And the proposed revisions are within what is acceptable under both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111738	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111741	What we want to discuss here are attitudes. So could we not just try to put conventions and paragraphs aside and then discuss positions? Can the rapporteur then reply to me whether the rapporteur agrees that it is a fundamental human right and a fundamental legal guarantee in any society that would call itself a community of law that one cannot be detained for an unlimited period; that one has a right at least at some point, which probably varies in the laws of the different countries, to stand before a judge so that one can defend oneself against that detention? Does the rapporteur agree that this is a good, fundamental right, a security guarantee that separates a society of legal certainty from a police state?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111835	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111837	I sense that the questioner has not had time to read the legislative proposal that we are discussing today, and in this way, of course, I can regret the haste. However, with the proposed change, everyone who is being detained will have a legal claim to have their case judged by a judge. All you have to do is ask for it. Interpretative assistance will also be made available. And these are all arrangements within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111908	Sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111911	But can the rapporteur confirm that this is an unlimited period of time? It is entirely up to the authorities. Unless the citizen, the fugitive in question, or whoever it is, is aware of it, you can risk sitting for an unlimited period of time. That is what I would like the rapporteur to do. Is this a fulfilment of fundamental guarantees of legal certainty from a party that would like to call itself a liberal party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111947	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120111948	I believe that, for the sake of good order, we must state that those who are detained under paragraphs 36 and 37 are not citizens of Denmark, but they are under the protection of the Danish state. But it is foreigners who enter or are expelled. The way in which the Danish State protects these non-citizens is within the framework of the Constitution, and it is within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights, and I am therefore convinced that this is a good way of resolving an extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112020	There are two short comments left. First, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112026	Thank you very much. I was very anxious to get an answer to Mr. Martin Lidegaard's question, but I don't really think I got an answer. I'm disappointed in that. Now I would like to repeat that perhaps in the meantime the rapporteur should have forgotten. Would LA's rapporteur have preferred the Danish police to have interned all refugees indefinitely in connection with the large influx of refugees? That is exactly what the revision of paragraphs 36 and 37 allows. That is why I would like an answer to that now, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112103	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112105	It's a bad thing if we politicians get involved in how the police do their job. I would have preferred the police to have solved the task, as is always the case in the Danish police, that is, within the framework of the legislation, but under lax conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112120	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112123	However, if the rapporteur would have preferred it, why would the rapporteur not insist that a time-frame should be provided for how long refugees can sit after they have insisted on coming before a judge? That is what we would like to see in order to maintain legal certainty in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112140	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112143	The European Convention on Human Rights states that this must be done quickly without undue delay, and the principle that it must be swift without undue delay will also be maintained. The problem is that there may be queues, if you like, bottleneck problems, which make it difficult to set a deadline.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112201	Thank you, and that is the last of short remarks. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112206	The day before yesterday, Mr. Henrik Dahl in the debate that it was • and I quote a small, tiny thing to be taken away without time limit in court. Will the rapporteur clarify why it is a tiny little thing for the Liberal Alliance not to come before a judge?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112227	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112228	I can't remember how the words fell. I have not been in the debate, I have been in the Deadline, but I do not remember at all how the words fell, and so on this platform I will not know what I have said in a programme I have not been in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112244	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112248	Okay, but then I can ask now. Mr. Henrik Dahl, that it's a tiny little thing that you can't come for a judge?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112257	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112300	I do not quite understand the question, but of course you must be able to come before a judge if you ask for it, and it will also be the legal situation that prevails when the proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112310	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120112329	Thank you very much. I would like to comment on some of the comments that have come from Amnesty International and from the Institute for Human Rights. Amnesty International writes: "Hastværk blocks more thorough preparatory work, other solutions and clearer legal policy considerations. This is something that most of us have mentioned. Amnesty International also says: "In general terms, with L62, a number of reckless, purely practical tightenings have been put together with proposals which should have been subject to a much more thorough legal policy discussion, including the question of possible alternatives to the weakening of legal certainty. On the other hand, it can be noted that the main argument of the last ten years of anti-terrorism legislation for a number of weakenings of the judicial control of the executive is now found as the only argument in this bill that judicial control can be overridden or removed when the maintenance of it is found time-consuming and impractical. It is clear from the observations and some of the answers given that a foreigner may continue to insist on having the detention of a judge. That is the excuse, you might say, for many of those who vote in favour of this bill. However, Amnesty International says no matter how you turn it, the individual foreigner will not receive a specific and individual assessment of his/her detention period as long as the suspension period runs. And the alien is entitled to that. Thus, those who do not insist and request to appear before a judge do not receive an individual assessment of the legality and proportionality of the deprivation of liberty with regard to the circumstances of the particular case. And Amnesty International continues: "But there is hardly any doubt that many foreigners will be unaware of their right or afraid to insist on having it. The Ministry of Integration must be of the same opinion. The proposal would not make sense if the Ministry did not have a fairly clear expectation that the change (suspension) would result in many foreigners being detained without judicial review. That is what I have put myself in the hearing answer that we have received from Amnesty International. We cannot therefore rely on the right of refugees to insist on coming before a judge. It has also been said repeatedly that our human rights obligations have been respected. However, the Department of Human Rights says that the draft law's treatment of Denmark's human rights obligations is both concise and imprecise. Indeed, the Institute of Human Rights says that the proposed rules allow the government to make decisions that would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. That is why the Institute for Human Rights makes a number of recommendations. The Institute for Human Rights has recommendations on the detention of asylum seekers on entry to Denmark, on the suspension of judicial review, where they say directly that overburden is not a legitimate reason for long-term treatment, so you have to stay within the prescribed time limit and they have recommendations regarding residence and reporting obligations. Then they also say that the length of the detention period must be relatively short-term, so that it should not take place just as soon as possible, but that it must not exceed 7-14 days. As I said, the reasons for the detention must be communicated and that judicial review of the legality of detention must take place within a maximum of 7-14 days and must therefore be carried out at reasonable intervals. Unfortunately, it is also the case that when it was said in the past that it should be the exception that people in detention are being detained, they are now saying that this should be the rule. That is simply very, very regrettable for the way in which we have a legal society. Indeed, it is a common thread in the proposal that detention should be applied more than in current practice, people should be detained wherever possible, where the origin of the Aliens Act has so far been the opposite, that is to say, that detention should be restricted only if less intrusive measures are not sufficient, where the police must ensure the identity of the alien and the basis of the asylum case at the very stage of the proceedings, in order to ensure that the alien cooperates loyally on the information of the case, and after refusal of asylum, where the alien must provide the necessary information and cooperation and contribute to the departure. I do not see that there is any reason to abolish these conditions in which a person should be detained, but that, as far as possible, it should always be detained, and that is to say that all the people who come to Denmark to apply for asylum, following this proposal, should automatically be detained if only there are enough of them. The alternative, like all the other political parties with which we have tabled proposals, is that we should, of course, reject this bill and that we should send it back now between the second and third readings, so that we can deal with it thoroughly after the answers that have been received, among other things. from Amnesty International and from the Institute for Human Rights, and that otherwise, of course, we will have to vote against the bill in a huge way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120113011	No one has asked to speak on short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120113026	Thank you. Then we stand here again, less than three days after this bill was tabled, less than two days after the first reading, less than a day after consultation with the Minister. During the consultation two consultation notes were issued. One from the Department of Human Rights and one from Amnesty International. When the Minister was asked to comment on the consultation note from the Institute for Human Rights during the consultation, she could not do so because she had not read it. That goes without saying. We don't have time for the consultation process, I'm sorry. When the hearing answers arrive anyway, we do not have time to read the hearing answers, we are sorry. It's convenient, tragic, you might call it satire. In fact, I stumbled over a message from a lecturer on Facebook yesterday at the satirical end. So I would like to read it out as rapporteur. Sometimes it's good to see how you're seen from the outside. He writes: I've been watching TV. This does not happen very often, but today I saw on the Parliament's channel the Minister for Foreign Affairs in consultation on L 62, the law to be dealt with urgently and, for example, the law to be dealt with urgently. makes it possible to imprison foreign people in something but an indefinite period of time. I didn't see it all, rewinded around a bit, but yet I could form an impression, and on that basis I have some messages. To the lawyers, I'm afraid I have to say that your profession has been terminated. It's a shame, of course, that you've spent so much time on it, but that's the way it has to be. For example: There is no reason to set a firm limit on how long people must be locked up, because no one has an interest in keeping people longer than necessary. Why would you do that? They are released as quickly as possible, so no need for clear lines or simple rules. Personally, I look forward to the spread of this principle and the fact that in this way we will have a ruleless society in which guts and political considerations can play a significantly greater role. There are probably also some lawyers and with a guarantee some humanistic linguists who are interested in what extraordinaires really mean. I would say to them that we cannot just define that clearly. Whether anything is extraordinary depends on the situation, so it has to be based on some input and an assessment. And no, I don't think we should spend too long on examples. Then there may also be some political figures who immediately start arguing that such legislation should then be based on some analysis: how many refugees can we deal with with with the resources we have available to the police, judges, that sort of thing, but these people need to know that it is too complicated. That would be like making scenarios of how to deal with, for example. any terrorist attack or practiced in war or anything else that requires planning and logistics. It's absurd. So no. Finally, just this: there are some who believe that the law gives the government the power to take measures which are clearly on the other side of the conventions. Yeah, so? Just because you have given yourself that opportunity, it is not certain that you will take advantage of it. By the way, try to be a little constructive all of you, the country is in ruins, the car owners have been relieved, and you are constantly criticizing. Now make some suggestions, you have 5-6 minutes. Like I said, I didn't see everything, but as soon as I have time, I want to see the program from end to end. It was exciting and exciting. So it writes this associate professor. It was a look from the outside. I hope you enjoyed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120113442	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor for short remarks. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120113452	Thank you. I do not want to start by saying that the SF is not going to back this bill, which none of the Danish Parliament's parties have had proper time to take a stand on. There are several elements in the proposal that we think are okay and we recognise that crises such as the one we are facing also mean that you must have room for action. It may be reasonable enough for the Minister to ensure that there are buildings • not tents, but buildings • to accommodate the people who come to the country. We also think it might be okay for the Minister to be authorised to stop train and ferry traffic in exceptional circumstances. But the proposals, which are only a small part of the overall package, simply do not compensate for the many undemocratic proposals contained in this bill. On Wednesday we first dealt with this proposal. It feels like yesterday, and it is almost the same, even though we are dealing with a complex 100-page bill. There was a lot of debate, many questions, and several times the government and the Socialists were asked: Well, why now? Why so fast? Why are we rushing something when judges, lawyers, the Institute of Human Rights, socialists and real Most of the answers were about the Swedish and German asylum systems breaking down at any moment, and that we have to change the rules so that we are ready when things go wrong when the country is going into a state of emergency one day. I thought it was a rather wild answer, that it was not very concrete and that such an answer alone is trying to create fear among the people. I have never really liked the approach of trying to get politics through by creating fear. It made me think of my first day here in the Folketing. Then I was dragged to church by my chairman, although I am not normally a churchgoer either, I wasn't quite happy to go over there, actually and then I sat and thought that I had to have the time to go, so I listened to the Bishop's sermon. She spoke of fear, and she said: Fear is otherwise violently fashionable. Fear is a strong factor in social life. It governs research, and it governs politics, what we should be afraid of, how we can feel safe and how we take fear seriously. Much life and much politics are governed by fear and fear. I honestly believe, without being an expert in Christianity, that the speech was to the parties that are now implementing this law. It was for the parties who are trying to create fear and who support a bill that seems to have been created for a situation that you don't even know what it looks like. Because when you ask the parties about the law what is it really necessary to make this come into force? So we are making a law for an extraordinary situation, which no one can answer when is extraordinary, a law that compromises on legal certainty, but without knowing exactly when it can be used. Does this mean that every time the Minister considers that there is a state of emergency, the Minister can grant exemptions for legal certainty? It is extremely undemocratic, and it is something that has been used in the past, when there was no democracy. It actually gets me I find it frightening that one wants to compromise on basic legal certainty that one is ready to detain people, young people, children, without putting them before a judge. There is something absolutely fundamental in our democracy that is being challenged here. I also find it frightening that private guards are going to do police work, that they are going to be allowed to keep people physically, that they are going to be allowed to handcuff people without having an education to do so. And when you ask, who are these people supposed to be able to do that? Yes, there are still no answers. So no, we're not voting for this proposal. We believe that the refugee crisis must be resolved elsewhere, in Syria and in the neighbouring countries that are about to succumb to the massive pressure that it is to contain not only 3 000 refugees, which is our share of the EU quota, if we took our responsibility on us, but several million refugees. We must help them because it is true that no one deserves to flee their homes and then we must help them because the alternative is that society collapses. The SF specifically proposes that we make an extraordinary contribution to Syria and Syria's neighbouring countries. This crisis is not solved by snatching solutions or lower benefits or harsh rhetoric from the parties. It is solved by helping financially to where the crisis started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120113937	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120113946	I would just like an answer to the following: if we now find ourselves in a situation where there are a great many people at once, there can be 2,000-3,000 people who, in principle, all have a legal right to be put before a judge within 72 hours, but that it simply cannot be done practically because we simply do not have enough judges, how does the rapporteur intend that this situation should be resolved in a practical way in the real world? Because that's what we're talking about. After all, we have to solve the problems in the real world, and here we have a practical problem. What is the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114023	First of all, we have been saying for several months that we believe that we should have a common registration system in the European Union, which means that when refugees come up to the European Union's borders, there are proper reception centres with proper sanitary conditions, where they are registered and then allocated into a quota. And I would just like to say that it is not a requirement for these people to be detained. I do not know when it has become the policy of the Liberal Alliance to automatically detain innocent people. You didn't do that down in Rødby there you had to let them go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114052	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114055	But in the real world there is no common registration system in the European Union. You might wish there was, but there isn't. So that is the reality we need to take as a starting point. So I ask again: how is it practical to put thousands of people before a judge within 72 hours? How is it practical to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114121	First of all, if it had not been because of the intention to kill young people's education, we would not object to more money being spent on the police, but then it is not our view that all the innocent people who come up here should be detained, because we cannot. We just don't have a record and it's really a system that can handle all these people, we haven't had proper registration. And as well as the police handled it well and accepted that they could not incarcerate all those people, we do not believe that you can do it next time or next time again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114146	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114152	Does the rapporteur agree with me that it is absolutely not a law of nature that the way in which Denmark, in relation to the many people who are fleeing, is the way in which Denmark, among other things, is acting? The brutality of the Islamic State, from Assad's barrel bombs, must respond to, is by putting them all in prison if they come here to Denmark to seek protection, and that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's question is therefore completely meaningless and absurd?
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114220	I very much agree with that, and in fact that is what I was trying to say, namely that I have no idea when it has become a liberal policy, that the innocent people who come to the country, that the people who have fled from the Islamic State, an organisation which I am sure most of us fear very much, must all be locked up. I have no idea when it will be liberal politics. It's happened overnight or over the last three days. But no, the SF doesn't think that you have to detain all the people who come up here who have fled. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114245	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak on this matter? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114306	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF) and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the amendment 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2 and 3 of the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 4 lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF)? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151120114433	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. For the sake of technology, we have to keep approx. 10 minutes break before the next meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will therefore take place today, Friday 20 November 2015, at 8 pm. 12.00. Since the proposal has been referred back to committee, the third reading of L 62 of the next sitting will be deleted and a third meeting will be convened today after the first readings have been carried out.
