ParlaMint-DK_20151216090028	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 90 (Proposal for a law amending the law on radio frequencies and repealing the law on the auction of licences for third-generation mobile networks). )), Bill No. L 91 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organization and Economic Situation of the Water Sector, Law on Water Supply, etc., Law on Payment Rules for Wastewater Supply Companies, etc.) and various other laws. Bill No. L 92 (Proposal for a law on radio equipment and electromagnetic conditions) and Bill No. L 93 (Proposal for a Law on the Pilot Provision of Price Increases for Electricity Produced in Solar Power). Minister for Business and Growth (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 94 (Proposal for a Law amending the Companies Act, Law on certain Business Enterprises, Law on Business Funds and various other laws. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 95 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations). Bill No. L 96 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Property Tax and the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. Minister of Justice (Søren Pind): Bill No. L 97 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Legal Assistance for the Submission and Conduct of Complaints to International Complaints Bodies under Human Rights Conventions and the Code of Procedure. Bill No. L 98 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151216090244	First of all, there is a explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216090257	Thank you, President. Can the calculations that come from the Ministry of Finance be trusted? Has the Danish People's Party been deceived by the Minister for Finance in the negotiations on the housing benefits package? Or is the Danish People's Party just blaming the Ministry of Finance for its own indifference to the opportunities of weak pensioners and disabled people to live decently? That's what we need to uncover today. This is why the Social Democrats, Enhedslisten and SF have asked the President of the Danish Parliament for this urgent debate on questions. The aim of the debate is to clarify the progress of the housing benefits package, which was part of the 2016 Finance Act, but which has now been postponed to the spring. It has been richly documented in the press and by the Elders Case that the housing benefits package will pull the carpet away under the economy of many older citizens. The government's own support party, the Danish People's Party, has acknowledged that they have not been good enough to ask about the consequences for pensioners. The Social Democrats, Enhedslisten and SF do not believe that the Folketing can be served by raising doubts about the basis for calculating decisions which are so important for citizens who already have a pressured economy. The parties of the Folketing must be able to rely on the information provided by the government and the Ministry of Finance, whether it is from the Parliament's platform or in closed negotiations. We have therefore taken the initiative in this urgent debate on questions. We have asked the Minister for Finance what information he can give about the process of the housing benefits package, which was part of the 2016 Finance Law Agreement and which, although it has now been postponed, has by no means been removed from the table. There will continue to be pensioners who will have their housing benefits cut in 2016 • who will know, however, not until spring. We would also ask the Minister for Finance to state whether the parties covered by the agreement have been informed of the consequences of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216090452	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216090505	It has been clear to everyone that a number of questions have been raised over the last few days regarding the changes in the housing allowance included in the agreement for the Finance Act for 2016. The government stresses that the issues raised can be thoroughly clarified and that there is sufficient time for this. On this basis, the Government and the parties behind the 2016 Finance Act agree that the bill on housing benefits is not finalised in the Danish Parliament but is withdrawn. This, of course, leaves a financing need to be met in 2016 and in the years ahead. Therefore, a negative budget adjustment is included in the 2016 Finance Act corresponding to the proceeds of the housing benefits package. The four parties behind the 2016 Finance Act agree that budget regulation will be sought in the area of housing benefits, and this will be done in spring 2016 on the basis of a presentation from the government. I believe that this is a sensible solution in the given situation. It ensures that we have a fully funded Finance Act 2016 and at the same time we have better time to clarify issues and ambiguities. Questions have also been raised about the consistency of some funding elements in the field of the Fund. Here the four parties agree that the special consolidation allowance for funds will change from 2016 onwards. At the same time, it has been decided to maintain the current transfer rule. The adjustments to these financing elements leave a financing requirement of 80 million. kr. annual, which the Parties agree to implement in spring 2016 on the basis of a presentation from the Government. Finally, the parties also agree to discuss the amount of equalisation tax on pensions by 2020, and we will discuss the possibility of making the waste fee for companies an option. All in all, I think it is sober and balanced solutions that show that the four parties behind the Finance Act are willing to take responsibility, even when unforeseen issues arise. The housing allowance package must, of course, be seen in the continuation of the Government's Finance Bill and subsequent negotiations on the Finance Act 2016 and I will therefore briefly outline the framework for the 2016 Finance Bill and subsequent negotiations. The draft Finance Act 2016 was presented on 29 September 2015. The framework for the draft Finance Act is well known and should be seen in the context of the August cashier's check-out. The cashier's check-up showed a structural balance deficit of up to 0.7%. of GDP in 2016 without counter-measures. This was a significant weakening of public finances compared to the pre-election situation, not only in 2016, but also for each of the years up to 2020. Thus, if no action was taken, the Danish economy would be on the wrong side of the budget law's balance requirements in 2016. This is, of course, untenable, and that is why the government presented a financial bill that strengthens public finances by 5 billion. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). This ensured that we could reduce the deficit on the structural balance to 0.4%. of GDP in 2016, i.e. a significant improvement compared to the cashier's check-out in August. The draft Finance Act reflects the government's emphasis on getting closer to the budgetary balance requirements and starting the journey towards the structural balance of public finances by 2020. I am, of course, pleased that in the circle of parties behind the Finance Act there was and is support for that line. This ensures that on the basis of the latest assessment of the Danish economy, Economic Statement here from December, we enter 2016 with a position on public finances that is significantly better than the one we took over from the previous government. The strengthening of public finances in 2016 means that all new initiatives under the Finance Act are the Finance Act funded crown for crown by budget improvements and reprioritisations. This has been a prerequisite for both the draft Finance Act and the negotiations on the Finance Act. From start to finish, the government has communicated this very clearly, and so it has also been clear to the contractual partners behind Finance Law 2016. In total, there are budget improvements for 6.7 billion. kr., which is distributed in a number of areas and varies greatly in size. The housing allowance package is one of several sources of funding for the many and strong initiatives in the 2016 Finance Act. The negotiations on the Finance Act, like other negotiations, are confidential. I cannot and will not therefore tell you in detail about the process. I have noted that following the conclusion of the Finance Act, a number of questions have been raised concerning both the two fund initiatives and the housing services package. That is why the parties to the agreement concluded yesterday on a clarification of the 2016 financial law agreement on four points that I mentioned earlier. It is both responsible and proper and shows that, contrary to what many claim, blue blocks work together for the common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091132	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091141	It is quite amazing that a finance minister is asked to explain a process, and then the Minister for Finance comes here and says that he will not explain it. Oh. The Danish People's Party went to elections on numerous promises, especially to the elderly. Yes, the Danish People's Party even had a special election leaflet printed on older people's politics. I have a copy of this. It is full of concrete promises to the elderly, and it also says, and I quote: our older fellow citizens must be offered a good and secure framework for their old age. No elderly people in Denmark should suffer economic hardship. Quote out. The fact that the Danish People's Party cannot live up to the many promises in the leaflet was expected, but the Danish People's Party had not given funding for any of it either. You were not allowed to read the leaflet as a budget, but a direction, said the Danish People's Party. In other words, it was not something that DF actually proposed implemented, but more such a kind of dream that you had and that you would like to share with your constituents. It remains to be seen that the voters have not been able to count on all the promises made by the Danish People's Party. However, it is a surprise to me that the Danish People's Party chose to support the housing benefits package that a party claiming to be interested in older Danes supports the removal of weak elderly people from the possibility of having a decent accommodation. That the Danish People's Party in this way would pull the carpet away under some of our weakest fellow citizens • Yes, it was a surprise anyway. We in the Social Democratic Party have therefore criticised the Danish People's Party. Perhaps someone could sit with the idea that it has caused the Danish People's Party to change its mind, but that is not the case. A housing allowance package still needs to be made, and savings still need to be found in 2016 and 2017 and 2018 and 2019. The Danish People's Party has undertaken to do so, according to the Minister for Finance. Last night we had an urgent consultation with the Minister for Finance, and here it turned out that there was indeed a disagreement between the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, and the finance minister about what was actually agreed. A few hours after the party had made an agreement, key figures in the government and the Danish People's Party could thus have directly opposed interpretations of the agreement. Chaos ruler. There is nothing to say about the fact that many pensioners and disabled people feel insecure. The Social Democrats' criticism of the Danish People's Party's support for the housing benefits package has been shared by many, among others. Older The case, which represents many elderly and many pensioners who feel abandoned by the party Danes who after a long life on the labour market deserve a dignified old age. To the criticism, Dansk Folkeparti answers that the party had almost been deceived by the Ministry of Finance's calculations. The calculations that the Elders Case and several newspapers could bring were in no way consistent with the picture presented to the Danish People's Party. Yes, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was listened to, and the impression was almost given that they had been given the prospect that the great savings would benefit the weakest pensioners. They simply did not know that saving would affect the elderly. The fact that the government then chooses to withdraw the bill last night merely contributes to the confusion. Was it a concession to the Danish People's Party that they had been deceived? Or was it just to help his support party that had slept per hour? It remains to be seen that the government and the Danish People's Party will still save the same amount on the housing benefits of pensioners and disabled people; now each elderly citizen will only have to live in insecurity until the bourgeois parties find the final solution in the spring. And still the accusation remains that the Danish People's Party has not been properly informed. The Folketing cannot live by the fact that there should be doubts as to whether the government can be trusted, including in negotiations, and therefore we look forward to clarifying whether the parties to the agreement had been presented with an erroneous assessment of the consequences. That is the reason for this urgent request. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF, I would like to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the progress on the housing benefits package continues to create uncertainty among the country's pensioners and disabled people, and that the expected deterioration in the housing benefits alone has been postponed. • V10. • V10. • V10. •
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091559	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further discussion. There is one brief comment. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091611	Thank you. I'm just gonna listen to Mr. Knox. Benny Engelbrecht, whether the Social Democratic Party considers it reasonable that housing expenditure on elderly housing is rising sharply and that common areas can be included in the housing area and added to housing expenditure? An example: In 2004, an elderly man had a residence of DKK 72,000. a year. It has a 3-percent increase per year, and in 2016 he is so up to pay 102,000 DKK. a year. Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, that it is fair that housing costs for the elderly have such a sharp increase and that the elderly cannot count on them to have fixed housing costs in the future when they enter an elderly home?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091702	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091705	The problem is, after all, twofold: on the one hand, the fact that there are some places where housing costs are increasing for various reasons; on the other, I can see that the Danish People's Party has received no guarantees that it can be ensured that it can be countered; on the other hand, with the housing benefits package, while the challenge of increasing housing costs for pensioners will be reduced to the benefit of the elderly. It has to be said that, regardless of what has been said in the debate, it remains to be said that an agreement will have to be drawn up in the spring to ensure exactly the same income from housing benefits as was proposed in draft law L 67. Then, of course, we shall have to see what the distribution will be. But the bottom line is that you have no guarantee that you can have your rent reduced, but you have a guarantee that some older citizens will have to pay. Who and what pensioners are going to pay that money, we do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091805	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091808	That's not what I asked for. And I also understand that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has a hard time answering that, and that's understandable. But from this point of view, I can see that the Social Democrats really think it is right for the elderly to have such large increases and housing costs. Because what I asked is precisely whether the Social Democratic Party does not think that the housing costs of the elderly are too high and that something needs to be done to reduce the housing costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091842	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091844	But that's exactly what I said. The problem is precisely that the Danish People's Party does not guarantee anything; on the contrary, through the change in the planning law to which support has been given, it has ensured that the municipalities are not able to build cheaper housing. And that means that with what you put up, you shoot yourself in the foot, not just once, but twice. So that Mr. Bent Bøgsted asks a question about it at all, in fact only exhibits the weakness of the agreements that the Danish People's Party has been involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091916	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216091927	Thank you, President. Then we are here with an urgent request for a housing allowance package that has been tampered with, and it may be a little interesting to have to discuss it. We really want to do that in the Danish People's Party. Then we must also say that the process here really shows that it is a totally pressured opposition. President. - Thank you very much for your silence.). You could see Mr. Benny Engelbrecht stand up here on the platform and be really excited about this. It is a pity that the elderly are not affected by this proposal, which really could not be implemented. What a pity it is in the opposition that there are no 22 000 elderly people living in elderly homes who are affected, because then a political campaign could have been carried out. It's a shame this proposal...
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092025	I would like to ask for general respect and calm in the Chamber when the rapporteur is on the floor. Thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092029	What a pity this proposal has been drawn. It is very good that this proposal has been drawn. For the course that has taken place, unfortunately, and it has also been somewhat messy that there was a proposal in the Finance Act to save 500 million. kr. On the expenditure which has risen to 10 billion. kr. It's a very large amount of money. Then, of course, there have been some negotiations where you ended up making this social staircase, where those who had the least should not be affected. It was a good political agreement, but it has turned out that it was not possible on the spreadsheet and really was not possible. It turned out that although a political agreement had been reached that those with the lowest incomes should not be affected, 22,500 of them were affected anyway. This proposal is then annoyed by the opposition's removal. We welcome this in the Danish People's Party. In fact, we welcome the fact that this proposal was not implemented when it appeared when it came down on paper that there were actually older people who could lose up to 16,000 kroner. I am shocked that the opposition is so clearly annoyed that the elderly are not affected. I would just like to say that we in the Danish People's Party are delighted. It was a really good day yesterday when this proposal was taken off. It was a good day. It wasn't a bad day. I know that this question is being held up because it was a really bad day yesterday: unfortunately, the elderly were not affected by the housing allowance package that lay. I just want to say that a single blue block agrees that it was a good day yesterday when this proposal was tampered with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092209	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092215	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen is quite wrong about everything he says from the platform. First of all, I would like to say that there is no opposition that is upset about anything. The only thing we may be upset about is the fact that the proposal has not been drawn. Sir. René Christensen is wrong when he says from the platform that the proposal has been withdrawn and that one has reason to rejoice and that there are a lot of pensioners who are not affected. That's wrong. The fact is that this proposal has only been postponed until spring, and that the agreement that the rapporteur's own party has concluded with the government will still seek to implement the budget regulation in the area of housing benefits in spring 2016 and perhaps also in the conciliation yesterday in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and perhaps even further forward. So, sir. René Christensen is completely wrong. What we regret, however, is that there are a great many poor pensioners and disabled people who are still living in complete uncertainty and insecurity as to what savings are going to be made on their private economy from spring onwards. Then Mr. René Christensen does not just confirm to me that the proposal has not been drawn, but that it has just been postponed until spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092320	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092323	I am so sorry that you can feel the excitement in your voice. They're talking about these poor pensioners out there. You just talk down to the pensioners. So we are talking about 200,000 people out there who have now been categorized as poor pensioners. Don't talk down to those people, stop talking about it. What lies in this, and what is mentioned in the agreement, is that we have had a housing allowance which has risen to up to 10 billion. kr. What you are proposing is that we should stick to the fact that you have to pay DKK 9 000. a month to live in a house of 60 m2. It's not okay. Now, look, it's fair enough to discuss whether it's good enough to spend 10 billion. kr. a year subsidising these types of housing. It's not okay to talk down to these citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092406	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092410	First of all, I would like to call on Mr Seligman. René Christensen to read the report that ATP has published where they say that 95 per cent. of those receiving housing benefits either have very low incomes or low incomes. So it is not wrong to say that it is people who are weak and that it is people who are poor who live in the type of housing they do. Secondly, I would like to ask Mr. René Christensen to relate to something that he never answered. Will he not just confirm here in Parliament that savings are still planned in the area of housing benefits in the spring and the years ahead, and that the proposal is not drawn up in this way, but that it is simply postponed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092442	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092446	Well, that's unbelievable. We could then say that if you said something wrong in the first round, you corrected it in the next round. But now they say that folk pensioners are weak. You know, because you have an income that can be low, you're weak. No, you're not weak because of your income. That is why you can be a strong and well-functioning citizen. But we can see here that you look at the income and say that if a citizen has a low income, he is weak. That's what they say in round two. Don't talk down to these citizens. This proposal is about spending 10 billion. kr. a year and that we have a rent that has skyrocketed. We need to make that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092523	Thank you. Sir. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092528	I had the pleasure when the proposal was withdrawn or temporarily postponed, which I think is a positive one, to hear the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party this morning at News tell us that pensioners should be freed. I would just like to hear how it is in line with the fact that a housing allowance package is to be negotiated in the spring, where 1.9 billion is to be collected. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092546	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092549	It is the case that this proposal has now been removed from the table, and we are very pleased about that, because it allows us to address the issue at the heart of the matter. Because what's the challenge? The challenge is that we can see that these rents have risen significantly. Imagine that you can get a property allocated in 2005 at 75,000 DKK, and in 2016 you have a rent of over 100,000 DKK. So this is a huge increase. We need to do something about this, and that is why, of course, we want to call on the government to come up with a proposal where we have also discussed with KL and the municipalities what is happening in relation to these elderly centres you are building out there. How come the rents have to be so high? 9,000 kroner. For 60 m2 it's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092628	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092631	It was a long time out of the blue. The rapporteur must be able to confirm that he lied on television this morning when he told us that pensioners should be freed, when at the same time an agreement has been made with the government to cut housing benefits. That's the fact. That's what we can read on the Ministry of Finance's website. That is what the Minister of Finance confirmed yesterday in the conciliation we had in the Committee on Finance: that almost 2 billion will continue to be recovered. kr. in housing benefits. It is not true that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can tell on television that pensioners must be freed, while the chairman of the Danish People's Party in the opening debate down here said that it was a tithe in the Finance Act that had to be removed. So I just want to hear Dansk Folkeparti: Has an agreement been reached where money and funding for the Finance Act will continue to be found by means of a housing allowance package, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092714	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092717	Absolutely. We do not want it to continue to be seen that rent prices are just rising and rising. Now we're spending 10 billion. kr. Then we can spend 11 billion. kr. Then we can spend 12 billion. kr., which also has to be financed from elsewhere. We want those rents down. We want those rents down! And it may well be that the Social Democratic Party and the SF say that you are comfortable with the fact that when disabled people and the elderly are searched for housing, they get a rent, where they start at DKK 7,000, and after a few years they have a rent of DKK 9,000, and then it just has to rise steadily. We do not agree with that. We would like to end this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092748	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092758	Thank you. I am really glad that this bill has been withdrawn. I am very sorry that it was put forward at all. I am even more sorry that the parties behind it have not clearly stated that what has been completely and completely scrapped. But it's kind of something else I'd like to ask. Can the rapporteur confirm that payment is already administered by Denmark in accordance with the bill now withdrawn, which means that 325 000 recipients of housing benefits will shortly receive a letter stating that they will receive less in housing benefits or at least another housing allowance? They probably don't all get less, I know the deal, but they get a different housing allowance than the one they had expected in January 2016. Can the rapporteur confirm that the legislative proposal which has now been withdrawn is already being administered?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092858	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092859	I can neither confirm nor deny that, but I hope that is not true, because we have seen a challenge in terms of administration if it is the case that legislation has not been adopted. So if that is true and it is certain that when the rapporteur asks about it I certainly think that we have a challenge in relation to the way in which management is conducted, that is to say, that legislation that has not been adopted in the Danish Parliament should that be right, but I do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092924	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216092927	I would like to ask the rapporteur again, or rather, on the basis of the rapporteur's reply, another question, so that the rapporteur can have another chance. Is the rapporteur quite sure that the Danish People's Party is not informed of the action taken by the Payout Denmark, which I have just mentioned, i.e. that Payout Denmark already administers according to the bill that has now been withdrawn, which means that 325,000 pensioners receive a different housing allowance, mostly a lower housing allowance than they had expected? Can the rapporteur confirm that the Danish People's Party does not know anything about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093018	No, we do not know anything about that, and it is the case that when legislation is not approved, it is not what works and, of course, you cannot change it. I mean, we have to get legislation through the Parliamentary Chamber first. I would say that, if it is true and frankly, I do not know, we certainly have a challenge. If we have institutions that act on the basis of legislative proposals that are going through the Parliamentary Chamber that have not been approved, then we actually have a quite big challenge, and that must be across the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093043	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093048	I would like a relatively clear answer to a relatively clear and brief question. Is it the case that the Danish People's Party will guarantee that no money will be taken from the housing allowance in the spring when you have to change the agreement here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093108	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093109	If we are to bring down the 10 billion, something must happen to the housing allowance, but then we say, as the previous agreement also stated, that we must also look at the rent. As stated in the draft law now being drawn, in relation to the touch the elderly have: the individual elderly or disabled have no separate interest in receiving a high housing allowance. The elderly or disabled have a special interest in having a suitable housing price. Therefore, we do not have an independent purpose in that the housing allowance should just increase and increase, that the rent should rise and increase. We have an interest that when you get searched into a home, you can afford to be there. We don't want to take any money. In fact, we want to have a housing market that is transparent. We want this not to be a self-table in the municipalities, and it is not to talk down to the municipalities or to say that the municipalities are doing something wrong. We just have a system today where prices have been raised and housing benefits have just increased accordingly. That is why no one really has said anything about it. It's just getting more expensive and more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093206	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093209	I took that as a no. That was a very long answer, but what was interesting was the first sentence in which Mr. René Christensen said: "If you're going to bring down the 10 billion. Well, it's a political choice. I can then understand that the Danish People's Party has a desire to cut housing benefits. That's what's in it. If you're going to bring down the 10 billion, it's cutting the 10 billion. I'll tell you what, sir. René Christensen, for I saw this as a confirmation that the Danish People's Party intends to cut the housing allowance in connection with that agreement, whether it applies both 2016 and the years after?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093247	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093249	Well, that's where politics gets interesting, because then the Social Democrats say that tax-financed stuff doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if we spend 10 billion in that area. Or we could use 11 or 12, or it could just rise and rise. Where should the money come from, and do we use it in a proper way? What is interesting for us is to look at the individual citizen. That's also why we made this social ladder. That is why it became difficult because we wanted to be very sure that those who had the smallest incomes were not affected. Of course, if you're gonna cut this 10 billion, something happens on the housing benefits. We then say that, at the same time, the cost of the elderly must also fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093324	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093331	Thank you. I'm really, really glad this bill has been postponed. That is also why the alternative was up to vote no. This may well be a bit surprising in relation to the disagreement there was about figures, because I think that it was actually quite clear and that was also what was in several of those hearing answers that it would have these great effects for the country's pensioners. I would really like to hear something from the Danish People's Party. Now I quote from the agreement: "Parties agree to seek to implement budget regulation in the area of housing benefits in spring 2016 on the basis of a presentation from the government. For me, it sounds like the money comes from the same area. And what's this exercise about? Is it simply that we do not have a proposal on which we can take a position today, but in fact only get a proposal in the spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093426	I can guarantee from here that you will not see the same proposal again. And so it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that this has been a very messy process. One might ask whether it can really be true that you cannot get an agreement paper with figures in the Ministry of Finance which you can relate to politically? I have to admit that, unfortunately, this was not possible in this matter. However, I guarantee that there will not be a proposal that has the challenges that this proposal proved to have. There is something that is important to us, and so we fully recognise it. We have gone into this and have said that it is fair enough to put it on the agenda when you spend 10 billion. kr. Is that a good way to spend 10 billion? kr. On? That's not a good way to spend 10 billion. kr. On. Billions are going to be spent on this, but the question is whether it is 10 billion. kr. to be spent on it. We now have time for that dialogue to be included, among other things. KL, Older Case and others. How can we get a good way to spend our money? Today we actually use part of them in a bad way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093523	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093526	Thank you. But I'm still reading away that it has to be taken in the area of housing benefits. So I can have my concern about how a deal like that ends. And then I would really like to ask about the remaining years, i.e. 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. What has been discussed there?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093538	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093541	First of all, one has written that one should seek to find it in the area of housing benefits, and so we agree with that. So we agree that the 10 billion. kr. is a high amount. And now we have the opportunity to look at it, not in a hasty process, where it has to be handled over a few meetings, but here in spring 2016 or right after New Year, where we can sit together with KL and figure out how to solve this. How do we stop this skies from these rents? If you are entitled to a special residence as a disabled or elderly person and cannot be in a private home anymore, why should you be faced with a rent of DKK 9,000. For 60 m2? That's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093617	I am really trying to be fair from up here in relation to giving the different parties the floor. But we have only two hours and we have to have room for everyone, so not everyone is asking for the floor to be able to have it. Now it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093637	Thank you. It is positive that the proposal has been postponed. But I do think that it creates enormous insecurity, that if you sit out there as an early retirement or a retirement pensionist, you have no idea whether you have been bought or sold and whether you should forward hundreds of kroner a month or more when the parties sit down again. I think that is a huge problem. The rapporteur then says: we are tampering with the housing allowance, yes, yes, but at the same time we are going to reduce the rent. I think that is a fair point of view. But can we not get a very clear guarantee from the rapporteur that the Danish People's Party will not be involved in an agreement where pensioners who come from low-income households, i.e. low-income households or very low-income households, will be hit on the wallet? So, if you take 1 kr. In the housing allowance, is it because before taking the crown it has ensured that the rent falls accordingly? Can the rapporteur guarantee that there will be no one national or early retirement pensionist from low-income groups who will have a worse economy as a result of the agreement that the Danish People's Party will conclude in the spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093750	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093754	After all, that was the agreement that was made politically. It should therefore be borne in mind that all of us who have made the Finance Act agreed that those who had the lowest incomes should not be affected. What then turned out was that even if you had pulled out these 93,000 households, it wasn't right when it came down on the spreadsheet, and the agreement couldn't be kept within that there would be 93,000 households that weren't affected. Actually, there were 22,500 of them. So that agreement is there, and everyone agreed on that. That's one of them. That is why the proposal has been withdrawn, in other words because those with the lowest incomes were affected. So that guarantee has given all parties that are behind the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093830	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093834	The rapporteur knows very well that 95 per cent. of the payments of the housing benefit go to low or very low-income households • 95%.! And we are not talking about the small group that the rapporteur and the other parties have invented with incomes of less than DKK 150 000. per household. It's just a tiny corner. If you have a household income of 200,000 or 250,000, you still have an income that is among the lowest in Denmark. What I am asking for confirmation is that no folk pensioners from low or very low-income households will have less money to live for as a result of that agreement. Surely we must be able to obtain a guarantee of that. Or are they gonna sit out there in insecure for the next few months without knowing if you're gonna come and take money out of their pockets? Is that what the rapporteur is saying or can we get an answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093924	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216093928	I have to give such a clear answer that the rapporteur is also involved. Those with low incomes should not be affected, and that is also what was in the proposal Now I cannot ask questions from here, but I would say: when is that a low income? They say that everyone who gets housing benefits has low incomes. In fact, almost 80 000 is over 250,000 kroner. Then you can say that it means that they are poor and that they are weak. We are just saying that we will not talk down to them, and then you can have a discussion about when you have a very, very small income. That, then, is the discussion that needs to be held. We have just said: they are the ones who have a retirement pension and a little ATP that should not be affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094008	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094011	I was almost shot in the shoes before, that I should be sorry that you had come to a better head in the Danish People's Party. I'm not. It's a pleasure to be here. What I am concerned about is that it is unclear or clear in ink what is actually going to happen in relation to an agreement in the spring. Can the rapporteur just clarify at least the part about the proceeds and confirm that the revenue to be found in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 remains unchanged, i.e. that the money to be raised from a housing allowance package is the same? So it may well be that you can fold the cards in a different way and take into account all the things that may be unclear, but with regard to the revenue that needs to be found, can we not confirm that it is the same and that this is what the Danish People's Party has committed itself to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094112	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094114	That's right. It's going to have to be applied in this area as well. Now, sir. Benny Engelbrecht once more, so I can ask you a question. If you don't do something, we're gonna spend 10 billion. kr. in 2016, and then we can spend billions in the future, and then I can ask: is it against us going in and looking at how we spend the money? How best do we spend the money of taxpayers who pay their taxes? We do this by just increasing and increasing rents, and we find that if you are searched for a dwelling, you can get a 60 m2 which can cost DKK 9,000. And more? Does the Social Democratic Party agree that we should just continue along that path? There the Danish People's Party says that we should not continue along that path. But we're a socially indignant party, and that's why we made this stair model. It could not be done now; the proposal has been tampered with. Now we have to look at how we can get this money without, of course, hitting the individual elderly. But of course we have an interest in not spending 10 billion. kr. a year subsidising this type of housing. We have an interest in this; we would like to see it pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094212	Thank you. And then it's sir. Christian Juhl as the last rapporteur in this round. I suppose there are others, too... Benny Engelbrecht for a brief comment, and afterwards it is Mr. Christian Juhl as the last rapporteur in this House, because I suppose there are also brief comments to the other rapporteurs, and we must keep the time frame. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094234	Thank you, President. Well, of course there's a challenge to the fact that there are pensioners whose rent is rising, but I would say to Mr. René Christensen has to be found 90 million. kr. in 2016 and an increasing amount in subsequent years. How will you ensure practically that rents can be lowered in 2016? We know that there are some pensioners who have to dispose of some money in housing benefits in 2016, but we do not know which ones. But how will you ensure that their rents are lowered in parallel with that? I don't even see how to make that happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094313	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094318	We are quite confident that the government has taken on a responsibility which we have a very clear feeling that it wants to take on. That is also where the proposal comes from. You will now have the opportunity in 2016 to have a dialogue, among other things. with KL and the municipalities, how to handle the way you have arranged yourself out there in relation to among other things. elderly housing. Then it is quite right that there are some types of housing for people with disabilities and others, and there is a building form which is very special and therefore there will be some expensive construction costs there. And there we will also have the opportunity to see whether there are any groups that have to be completely tampered with in relation to how to deal with this in the future. There will be time for that now, and we are very confident in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094353	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094359	Thank you. Speaking down to pensioners, the rapporteur said. I believe that there is one party that speaks down to pensioners in this matter, and it is DF and the parties that say: Dear pensioners, you have to deliver hundreds of millions of kroner a year, so there is money for tax relief on sports cars and so there is money for tax relief on the villas. They're the ones who talk down to the pensioners. That is where indecency arises and nowhere else, and the sooner we stop it, the better. Now it seems that the Danish People's Party is repentant, and that is fine. I would just like to say that I understand from the rapporteur that he forgot to mention that the DKK 250 000. It is not the pensioner's income; it is the household income that all pensioners who now sit and have such a low income as household income, a few hundred thousand kroner, must sit and feel insecure about the Danish People's Party and the government's debates in the spring because it may be that you can still take money from them because you have to find some. That must be the right conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094500	It's the wrong guy. And I just want to say to the speech stream that was at first, about the car tax, that we are quite comfortable with the fact that it has now become cheaper for ordinary Danes to buy a safer car. We're quite comfortable with this, too, and I know that Enhedslisten is against the fact that no 2.6 billion was spent. kr. That the director could buy himself a Tesla, which is one of the most expensive electric cars you can buy at all. That's where Enhedslisten would have spent 2.6 billion. kr. That the director could go out and buy himself such an expensive electric car. This has been removed, and it has been said that the ordinary Dane can now go out and buy himself a slightly better car, which is then a little cheaper and safer. That is how we have prioritised. I know that Enhedslisten is sometimes a bit crossed, and that is where you'd rather go for the directors to be allowed to buy these expensive electric cars. We just haven't agreed on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094548	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094551	That was elegant. The answer was totally out of the question I asked. I asked whether pensioners who have a household income of DKK 250,000 should now sit and feel insecure about what the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur will do during the spring. The rapporteur's pride in giving villa owners and car owners discounts at the expense of pensioners says more about the rapporteur than it says about anything else. But just try to answer the question I asked. It was about creating an uncertainty, for a household income of DKK 250,000. is not big in Denmark today. I think the rapporteur himself knows this, otherwise he can count up his own monthly salary and see how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094636	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094640	It's just that there's so much talk in that stream. Listen to this: there are also pensioners who sit out there and it does not only have to be in the municipalities of Copenhagen, it may also be in the province and it is really difficult because the root cause has increased and increased. These are some of them who cannot stay in their homes, both because of economics and how they feel physically. They must then be searched for an elderly home, which may cost 9,000 kroner. a month. We will do something about that. I can say from up here that we do not want to reduce benefits to those who have the lowest incomes. That is what was in the previous agreement. All the parties agree that those with the lowest incomes should not be affected. We have answered that several times, it is in the draft budget, and it was in the proposal that has been drawn. Anyone can be safe and have Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094718	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have a proposal for adoption). The rapporteur will have that straight with him.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094725	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I hereby allow myself to make: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the parties to the Finance Act 2016 have decided to postpone the implementation of a housing allowance package so that there is sufficient time to clarify a number of issues. The Danish Parliament notes that the government will discuss with the National Association of Municipalities how to secure up-to-date and affordable elderly housing in the future. • V 11).
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094756	Thank you. It should have been read out in connection with the rapporteur's speech, but now we have it now. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216094808	Thank you. I was just on the verge of taking up that text, but fortunately the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party brought it along, and that is important because it is part of the debate. As everyone knows, a financial agreement has been concluded which states that a reform of the housing services area will be undertaken. This is an area where 10 billion are spent annually. kr., and it is expenditure that is greatly increasing due to the mechanism that lies in relation to the projection. It is an agreement with several elements, among others. the regulation of prices. You want to regulate or look at harmonising the projection of the prices of the housing service, so that it is in harmony with what is, for example, projected as housing insurance. One has looked at the calculation technical supplement that has been introduced in the past. It has been looked at to introduce a ceiling on the maximum rent that can be included in the calculation of the housing allowance. Then you have looked at the idea that the own payment should be reduced, so that you get the social profile that has been demanded, in relation to which household income should deliver and who should not, but on the contrary should have a boost, and looked at what it would look like. Then there has also been a dialogue about this, and this is also what is apparent from the proposal for adoption put forward by a single bourgeois camp, that the government should have a talk with the National Association of Municipalities about • and that is the whole point • how to make cheaper elderly homes in the future, so that the rent to be paid by the elderly will be lower. Because what matters to the elderly, I suppose, is: what is in your hand when you have paid the cost of your accommodation? There it is not as interesting, as I see it, whether you get one in service and in return have to pay something else in rent. It must be interesting to look at what's left after you subtract the two numbers from each other. We look forward to that, of course. But, of course, different consultation responses have been received, and that is no secret, with some different types of examples. And you might say that some of them may have been right to some extent, while others have been wrong. Nevertheless, some questions have been raised which have created an uncertainty as to whether the political intention, which is agreed among the conciliation parties, was fulfilled with the chosen model. That is why it has been agreed among the conciliation parties that we should push the legislative proposal itself, which will then have to be implemented after New Year, or that we should at least talk about how we implement it, so that we have more time to look at these examples: is there anything in them and, if so, how? And how is the political intention being realized? I think that is actually an expression of the fact that we have a democracy that works. I know that sometimes in here we are criticised for not listening to what happens outside these thick walls; we are enough ourselves and are better informed. But here, in turn, we have chosen to say that there are some consultation answers that justify some criticism. We take that criticism to heart, and we would like to check it and listen to it. Then I know there are Christiansborgkulls in it. That, of course, must also be criticised. But we take it with serenity in the sense that we think it is important when there is a political agreement and there is a legislative proposal being made, that there is the process that, as the stakeholder in this case, it is so that the Elder Case can raise some issues that we so seriously take up and assess and that it is done in a proper and honest way. That is what has been the process in this context, and it is an approach which we in the Left can of course fully support. And, of course, I note that it is not a united opposition that takes the opposite view, but we are a united bourgeois camp that is entirely behind the intentions that have been intended. And we're gonna figure it out. In any case, it is certain, as Mr. René Christensen says that we also believe that it is not the case that pensioners per year are entitled to a pension. definition is a weak group, as some have expressed. We think it is important that we look at what kind of economy is available and not at what kind of public subsidy is being given by the state. That must be the interesting and central thing, and we are, of course, entirely behind it, and that is why we are also looking forward to the dialogue that we must have in the conciliation circle, and also to the dialogue that the government must have with the National Association of Municipalities, to provide affordable housing for the elderly for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095244	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095249	Thank you. Now the rapporteur repeats what Mr. René Christensen said earlier and which also gives me the opportunity to speak. After all, no one claims that pensioners per year. definition is a weak group. The only thing that several of the rapporteurs from the opposition highlighted here was that if you get housing benefits, which are a social benefit, then 95%. of those people that ATP has characterized as people with low or very low income. At the same time, it has to be said that if people live in an elderly home, they also live in a home because they have special needs. It can be in relation to the interior and everything else. That does not mean that you per. definition is weak, but it means that you can be walking, you can have disabilities. It can mean all sorts of things, so nobody talks down to some people. It's just to put a thick line underneath it. There is something I would just like to ask the rapporteur very briefly to confirm. The housing allowance package has not been taken off the table or cancelled; it will be completed in the spring. And what we in the opposition are concerned about is that there are a lot of people running around with a sense of insecurity and insecurity. Would the rapporteur not just confirm that there will be pensioners today receiving housing benefits who will be cut in their housing benefits this spring, in order to implement budget regulation in the area of housing benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095407	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095409	I'm going to start by signing that it's also Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's view that nobody should be talked down to, nor to pensioners, and I would like to sign for that. For it is certainly very important for us that we should not just say that pensioners are weak people in a large, grey mass. Of course it's not like that. There's a difference between people. That is also the case in the Pensioners' Group. Moreover, there is also a difference between disposable income, i.e. income after tax, that is, income in the household. This was not quite clear from the previous dialogue, among other things. between Mr. Christian Juhl and Mr. René Christensen. So it's the disposable income that we're talking about, that is, after tax, when you add up these different household income samples. But with regard to what spring talk should be like, as the agreement states, it has just been agreed that, in the area of housing benefits, we should seek to find the funds, but it has also been agreed that the government, as I mentioned before, should have a chat with the Communists' Association about this and that is perhaps the most important thing about how to bring the rent down, so that we avoid that there are these exorbitant large rents for a small number of square meters. That is what must be interesting for the elderly. What do you have for the first and last of the month when the rent and benefit are added together?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095520	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095522	Firstly, I should just like to thank the rapporteur for confirming what has always been our claim, namely that savings will be made in the area of housing benefits next spring. In other words, what some media and perhaps some of the parties in the Danish Parliament believe is that something has been withdrawn or withdrawn from the table or is no longer in force, is a misapprehension, that is to say, wrong, because savings will be made in the area of housing benefits this spring. Thank you. There's something else I want to ask you. It is fine that you want to have a dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities on how to reduce rents, but what exactly are the tools you intend to use to do so? As Mr. Benny Engelbrecht mentioned in his answer to questions to him, the choice has been made to remove the cheap housing provision from the planning law, etc. It was thus one of the few tools that could make it possible to create cheaper housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095615	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095619	Well, it's in the deal. I cannot tell you who is in a certain error, whether it is the media or the parties or who is in a delusion. I'm not gonna be able to say that. I can only deal with and see what has been agreed, and it is clear that it has been agreed that in the area of housing benefits, we will seek to implement those funds. But you will also try to have a talk with KL about how to bring down the rents, so that you can say that the low-income income groups, which have been talked about in the debate, are not affected, but that they can, on the contrary, get a boost. That is what has been talked about. Then I just lost track of the second question, but perhaps another rapporteur can come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095658	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095703	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that Denmark is already in the process of administering the draft law which has now been withdrawn and that this means that 325 000 beneficiaries of housing benefits, i.e. pensioners and early retirement, will receive the wrong housing allowance in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095726	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095730	So, I assume that, as an authority, we are managing according to the legislation that is being adopted here in the House. But if Mr. Finn Sørensen is familiar with other information, it is very, very relevant to get it out, and I can almost sense that it is in the question that Mr. Finn Sørensen apparently is. However, it must be made clear that the Danish or other authorities must, of course, administer according to the rules in force and that no rule has been changed in this context because, as you know, we have just postponed the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095754	Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095756	Thank you. I am simply asking the question because I would like to know something, and I would like to know if the rapporteur knows. The rapporteur is in the governing party, so I thought the rapporteur might have been informed of this and could either confirm it or deny it. I hope, then, that the rapporteur will deny it and say that it has absolutely nothing on it. I hope so, because that would be a disaster. It would also reveal a perhaps very violent self-confidence in relation to this bill that has now been put forward, to say: well, it's just going through, and that's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095836	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095837	Yes, but I do hope that I can enrich Mr. Finn Sørensen with some information every once in a while, but exactly on this point, I must be guilty of his answer. I can only deal with what has been agreed and adopted in this House, and these are the rules that have been agreed and adopted here in the House that the authorities must administer. If you do the other thing, you have to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095902	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095906	Thank you. After all, the Left has been entrusted with the government and the responsibility for the kingdom's finances, and it has to be said that it sails completely. In an hour's time we will be standing here and third reading a financial bill that has not really been negotiated, with a large number of expenditure that is not covered and where we have no idea what it really is that we are going to do for spending in 2016. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Jacob Jensen on something: Is the course we have been through here an expression of professional governance, as the Left understands it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095945	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216095946	I think this shows respect for democracy and the stakeholders and the people who work with it in everyday life. A political agreement has been reached with a political intention which raises a number of consultation issues from among others. The Elders side of the matter, which raises some questions politically. We take these issues seriously because we believe that the political agreement and the intention contained in the agreement must of course be complied with. Actually, I think that's the most soberest thing I've ever seen. It would have been something else if we had said: yes, yes, it may well be that someone outside this house is wise, but they should not be so clever that they are smarter than us, for we know best. It would have been weird if we had done it that way. I do not know whether this is the radical way in which they pursue politics, it is not the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100026	Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100027	The way we did it when we were in government was that we made these rounds of consultations before we made the agreements, instead of squandering on a case-by-case basis, sloppy with too hasty processes and legislation, because then we avoid the uncertainty that it says about it. I would like to ask something: is it true that, apart from wishing to close the gaps that have now been created for next year through the housing service, we are also going to finance the concessions that we have now had to make to the Liberal Alliance, to the Conservatives in relation to the garbage fee and the compensation tax, so that it also has to be financed from the housing allowance? Or has it not been financed for next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100105	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100106	To take the latter first, I would like to say that it has not been discussed whether anything should be financed. It has been discussed that we should look at the two areas. However, I would just like to arrest the view expressed by the radical rapporteur here. I don't know if we're back at the Berlusconi methods. I remember that there was a certain radical leader who, at one point, pointed it out to the then VK government, and the then radical leader had to withdraw it when she joined the government as a minister, because there, as a radical leader, there was also no way of meeting the consultation deadlines imposed on oneself. So I don't think we have anything to let each other hear about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100139	Thank you. Sir. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100143	From the SF's point of view, we welcome the fact that this proposal has now been withdrawn. But it's not drawn. That's the problem. That is what we have now heard from the Danish People's Party trying to explain, namely that the proposal has been withdrawn or disappeared. It's not. There is still an agreement, which can also be read on the Ministry of Finance's website, that you have to find a certain amount of money. But the uncertainty as to what amount it is was very obvious about the consultation we had yesterday with the Minister for Finance. I just want to know if the rapporteur of the Left can clarify whether it is just 90 million. kr. in 2016, or whether it's this 1.9 billion. kr., which has been budgeted for in the proposal, one has to go out and find through savings on housing benefits in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100223	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100224	That's 90 million. kr. in 2016 • but this also applies in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Then I know that Mr. Jonas Dahl can then say that yes, if you advance it to 2025, 2035, 2050, then the amount of exorbitant becomes large. Of course, you can choose to do so. It is also possible to say that the cost we currently have is about 10 billion. kr. for housing benefits, including: and perhaps primarily because you have such high rents around, you would explode further if you did nothing. The question can then be asked whether it is wise politically and strategically to commit in this way and simply to say that there are some costs and they are exploding, but we are turning a blind eye to that. We're not looking at it because everything's gonna be okay. There we choose to go the other way and say: Well, listen: there are some expenses that explode. We do not think this is a proper way of spending the money; we would like to have a dialogue with the municipalities on whether, however, in the future, we could not find ways of bringing down the rents in the elderly housing. And that's kind of the way we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100325	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100327	I would like to sign that the rapporteur confirms that it is not just in 2016 that funding is to be found, it is over a long period of time. We can then discuss what billions it will be, but at least we agree that it will be a billions when we look forward to 2020. I'd like to sign for that. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur: can you find that saving on housing benefits without it affecting pensioners? This was the promise we received earlier today from the Danish People's Party, namely that pensioners should be freed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100400	Speaking of releasing pensioners, I am not going to explain what Mr. René Christensen said before, sir. René Christensen himself, of course, explains that he is the best person to do so, and I think we should separate things, for that is what Mr. Jonas Dahl is aiming for, I think, whether you get a lower housing allowance. What we are talking about when we talk about keeping the low income areas free is, among other things, that you can get a boost in housing benefits. But it is not so interesting what the housing allowance lands on; the interesting thing is what it is for disposable income you have, when you have received your housing allowance, and when you have paid your rent. That is why the two things are linked: the size of the housing allowance, but indeed the amount of the rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100441	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. First, we may have to keep to the speaking time, of course, but I will also have to look very closely at the number of speakers so that we can reach everyone within the two hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100452	I shall be very brief, because this is, in fact, a continuation of the last question. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that the ATP has produced such an overview, which shows that more than 95%. of those receiving housing benefits are people with low or very low incomes. This means that if you go in and cut the housing allowance, the people who are affected by it will, by their very nature, be exactly that group.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100524	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100525	I don't know if I can confirm that. Because you can at least look down on the disposable household income that is available and, as you know, available is net income, i.e. after tax has been paid. There you can of course put the cut where you want, but you can also look at what it is after the rent has been looked at after the housing benefits have been looked at, and that is the aim we have with this approach. We have even agreed from the outset that the lowest incomes should not be hit; on the contrary, they should have a boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100558	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100600	Yeah, but in this context, they all have low incomes. Then it is true that there are some who have 150,000 kroner, and there are some who have 175,000 kroner. as household income before tax. Well, I guess we can agree on at least that's what ATP says it's low income, whether it's $150,000 or $175,000. You can't even get housing benefits if you don't have a low income. But I'd like to ask Mr. Jacob Jensen, however, confirmed ATP's figures that it should be relatively simple: that more than 95%. of those receiving housing benefits have low incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100639-2	Yes, but what I am still trying to explain to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil and others is: It is of course not interesting for the elderly what you get in housing benefits in isolation. The interesting thing is what you have in disposable income when you have paid your rent and received your housing allowance. That is what our aim is and we have then tried to create a social profile, a social staircase, if you like. It was then not possible to hit spot on because there were some examples from the Elders case in the hearing reply which indicated that there could be some special cases which were outside what was the political intention. And it is against this background that we take these consultation answers and those questions seriously and give ourselves some reflection time to correct it so that the political intention can be complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100723	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100725	I think there's so much uncertainty about this. It is already on 27 October that the Elders case first informs about the terrible consequences of this intervention, yet it is allowed to continue with the result that there are thousands of retired people, early retirement pensioners and people with disabilities out there and have been able to look forward to their pockets being pulled out of their pockets. Now it has been decided to postpone this until the spring and quite frankly, I think everyone here is aware of this: only because there was pressure, only because the Danish People's Party came under pressure from many folk pensioners and many other people, and you were discovered in what you were doing. Then the rapporteur, a little like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, says: well, it is the disposable income that we have to look at, and perhaps we can also reduce the rent, so people have the same thing afterwards. I think that is a good thing. So can we not just get a guarantee in that bill that when you have to go out for a number of years and find this 400-500 million? kr. in the case of pensioners, will there not be a single old-age or early retirement pensionist with low or very low income who receives a lower disposable income? Can we get a guarantee?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100845	The aim is, of course, as I have tried to explain several times now but I would like to do so, of course, that the groups with the lowest incomes are the ones that need a boost, while others need to be downgraded to make things stick together. That is what has been the political intention, and in that picture, it can be said, we have precisely the approach that we need to look at both the performance, because we think that 10 billion. kr., which is still increasing and will be increasing if we do nothing, is much money to spend in the area if you could spend the money wiser, and at the same time look at how the rent is being put down. This is the dialogue that the government is now going to have with the National Association of Municipalities, and I think that is, in my view, very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100926	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216100929	I think it is too bad that there can be no clear answer. For what is being said here is that if you sit out there as a folk pensionist, as a couple on a folk pension or as an early retirement pensionist, because you have a movement handicap or something else, and you have a household income on, for example. $200,000. That is what remains after the answer given by the rapporteur, and I find that sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216101011	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216101014	You can mean a lot about what's sad and what's not sad. You can also turn it around and say: Deep down in your pockets? I think it's 45 kroner. or something similar to that expected for household income of more than DKK 150,000. Or in that rent. The intention has been clear from day one, and I would like to mention it again: low incomes should have a boost, higher incomes should have something different, and that was in relation to the benefit. But we also have an intention to reduce the rents for elderly housing in general, and that is why it can be said that we have agreed jointly that the government should enter into the dialogue with the KL as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216101054	Thank you. I have to finish now, because otherwise we simply cannot achieve what we have to achieve within the timetable. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216101110	Thank you. It is gratifying that this bill has been withdrawn, but it is not the profit of the Danish People's Party. This is due only to the popular pressure that arose as the people realized what the Danish People's Party had agreed to. As early as 28 October, the Danish People's Party, like all of us, received a letter from the Elders Case warning against the deterioration. There were also concrete calculations in it. On 2 November, the Danish Parliament received an answer from the Minister to a question from me, and the answer clearly stated that most recipients of housing benefits will experience a reduction in the housing allowance of DKK 2,376. or less annually when the package is fully phased in in 2020. The answer also shows that some pensioners with a modest household income of DKK 350,000. a year to two people will lose up to 8,364 kroner. a year. Despite this information, Dansk Folkeparti will sign the Finance Act on 19 November and already on 20 November the bill will be submitted. The bill showed the following deteriorations: Housing benefits can in future be reduced for all by regulating benefits in line with price increases rather than in line with wage increases. This will cost all recipients of accommodation allowance 840 DKK. per year in 2020. The phasing out and abolition of the calculation technical supplement will mean that an average of DKK 3,780 will be lost to 132,000 pensioners. a year. The introduction from 2020 of a ceiling on housing support in elderly and nursing homes, but not too much reduced mobility, but on average it will cost those affected, approx. 4,000 kroner. a year, or should we say just under 4,000 kroner? a year. That the total effect is that by 2020 pensioners will have to deliver 480 million. kr. to tax relief for those at the top of society. The Minister of Finance has confirmed that Dansk Folkeparti has had the bill for review before it was tabled. On 25 November, all rapporteurs, Elders, receive the hearing answer of the case, where it appears that the deterioration is probably even worse. However, despite these facts and warnings, the Danish People's Party is defending its participation in the bill at first reading in this Chamber on 8 December. That is why we must say: No, it is not about the Danish People's Party forgetting to ask the right questions. They have openly entered into an agreement which they well knew would hit thousands of pensioners with low incomes for the simple reason that over 95 per cent. of the amounts paid for housing benefits relate to households with low or very low income and to 30 per cent. of the sums paid are paid to pensioners with special housing needs... the facts, which also appeared in the Elders' hearing response. It is only when the case explodes in the media that the Danish People's Party is beginning to back up. It is very good that the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed to withdraw the bill, but that is the only thing they have drawn. They have not clearly stated that the agreement they entered into to reduce housing benefits has been scrapped. On the contrary, they have reached an agreement that the problem has just been postponed until the spring to great insecurity for the country's pensioners, and they have even put forward a proposal for adoption here today confirming that that is what they want. How can we believe that the Danish People's Party will stand firm at that time and reject any deterioration in the housing allowance? If you have once been willing to cut pensioners' housing benefits, you have gone out on the plank. If you deceived the voters once, you can do it again. You may have to, because it is necessary if you want to make financial laws with a government and some support parties that have the clear agenda to take from those who have the least and give to those who have the most. We can only encourage the Elders Case, Denmark's General Housing and the National Association for the Disabled and all the other good forces that have ensured that, after all, we could get there, that the bill was drawn, to maintain the pressure. As the director of the Elders Case, Bjarne Hastrup, so rightly said yesterday in TV 2: Now politicians have taken the first step. They must also take the next step and the next step again and realise that there is no money for them in the housing allowance. Finally, I would urge the Minister, when it comes to his turn, to come to the floor and answer my question, whether it is true that payment is already administered by Denmark under the bill that has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216101554	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a new rapporteur coming up here, and that's Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216101604	We are debating here a bill which arises from the problem which I think the whole parliament should recognise, namely that the rents in the municipal elderly housing are rising and increasing, and with them also the housing allowance is increasing. We must do something about this, and the bill that was on the table intended to do something about it. I would like to mention two elements in particular. One is that housing benefits should not increase in the future with wage developments in society, but with price developments. When it increases with price developments, it means that each year you can buy the same goods for your public service. In other words, when goods are rising in price, public services are also increasing, so that next year you can buy the same as this year, and in two years' time you can buy the same as the previous year. It is a fine and healthy principle unless one takes the view that public services must become increasingly lucrative over the years, and we do not. That is why we also agree with the previous government... the S-R-SF government... which made sure that a number of public transfer income increased with price developments instead of wage developments in society and used that money to make a tax reform. So it is a principle of the former S-R-SF government, which was continued here and which should also include the housing allowance. Then there was another element in the reform, which was about adding an arbitrary amount of DKK 6,400 to the basis of the calculation of the rent, I think it was, as the basis for the calculation, without the rent being up to include the rent plus DKK 6,400. It also had to be tampered with, and we thought that was sensible. But then there have been doubts as to whether the lowest income among pensioners was affected by this, so that in 2016 they got less to do with than in 2015. That doubt has been justified, and that is why the bill has now been removed and a solution will be found in the spring instead, and we are also pleased with this, especially in view of the fact that we have then written in, that the parties will also look at the special compensatory tax on private pension savings and even on the waste fee for small self-employed businesses. So, all in all, we support the intention of the original draft law, but we also support the fact that the solution has now been postponed to the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216101858	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216101902	Thank you. This apocalypse scenario, which is drawn from the flight of the housing benefits, is of course so much doubt. In other words, it is also the case that we know that occupational pensions are going to increase in the years to come, and the Elders' economists have among other things. I would point out that this would probably mean that the increase would not take the sky-slide mentioned by the rapporteur, but we might be able to take that discussion in the Committee on Finance. My question is more about the nature So my question is really just: does the rapporteur believe that the Danish People's Party has committed itself to finding that revenue not only in 2016, but also, for example, in the negotiations that are due to take place in the spring? in 2017, 2018 and 2019, which was in the agreement on the Finance Act in the area of housing benefits, and that Dansk Folkeparti has also undertaken to help reduce this so-called equalisation tax, which was one of the few social elements of the 2010 tax reform that had a tax on the highest pension payments? But it's really just the nature of the agreement... what is it you've committed each other to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102012	Yes, please! We have to keep to the speaking time, otherwise this is going to go completely. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102016	All four parties to the Finance Act and the Supplementary Agreement here have undertaken to seek the same income in the housing service, which means that a great deal will be done and that it is intended to find the same proceeds. But I think that there may also be in this attempt to find that if there are absolutely insurmountable problems, there may be a little bit of revenue that does not come from there. I'm not really supposed to be able to say that. This text also suggests that there is an understanding around the table, an oral understanding, I think, between those who have sat around the table where I have not sat. But so, the desire is to find the proceeds within the housing benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102100	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102102	Okay, so it's a little unclear what's in the deal. Perhaps the Danish People's Party is committed, perhaps they are not; perhaps the compensatory tax should be reduced, perhaps it should not. That must be the result of what we are told. Did discussions of the top tax come into play in this deal you've made?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102121	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102122	No, that is the way I said it, namely that there is an understanding that there will be a great deal of effort to find the same income in the housing service, and that understanding is, of course, binding. I know that the top tax has not been discussed in the negotiations at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102142	Sir. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102146	I would actually like to sign that the Liberal Alliance has once again had an impact on basically a different financial law than the one that was negotiated first. I understand that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur welcomes this, not least when a number of things have also been tackled which then extend beyond 2016. Yesterday, however, the rapporteur had the pleasure of being chairman of the Finance Committee, and so is he today, and there was a debate between the Finance Minister and the Danish People's Party's Employment Rapporteur, where it was rather unclear whether the money to be found here in the spring only concerns 2016 or concerns 2016 and beyond. Now the rapporteur says it is 2016 and beyond. Is that the understanding of the agreement made with the Minister of Finance? It is, of course, fairly crucial to know when we are going to have to deal with the Finance Act in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102242	The rapporteur, please,
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102243	Yes, that is the understanding in the agreement, namely that it is 2016 and forward, and I also think the Minister for Finance said that quite clearly, yes, very clearly at yesterday's meeting of the Finance Committee • so that it is 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020. This is a long-term deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102312	Thank you. I am glad, however, that the rapporteur confirms this clearly. That's just not what the Danish People's Party said. The focus has always been on the fact that it is just in 2016 and that it is only 90 million. kr. So I am glad that the rapporteur confirms that it is therefore a billion euro that we have to find when we look forward to 2020 by cutting housing benefits. Then I would just like to hear the follow-up: can you cut the housing allowance without hitting the poorest pensioners and get a revenue of 2 billion? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102341	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102342	I haven't heard sir. René Christensen as the financial rapporteur for the Danish People's Party say anything else from here than what I have just said. So I do not agree with Mr. Jonas Dahl in that the Danish People's Party has today given the impression of something else • it does not have the Danish People's Party. Whether you can find that income on the housing allowance without cutting the housing allowance for the lowest incomes is what the Ministry of Finance has to come up with, and I think the Ministry of Finance can do that too. There is no doubt that this can be done. The question is whether the cut in higher incomes which then lies will be unacceptable in relation to what one might think of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102427	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. If there is to be a chance for some questions for the Minister of Finance and I would imagine that some would like to ask you something to hold back so as not to overspend the time when it comes to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102450	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. After all, the deterioration in housing benefits, which the proposal now postponed, was fundamentally disagreed with by the alternative. And that is why I am also concerned about the way in which the proposal for the spring has been postponed, in other words because money still has to be found in housing benefits. We are then told that what we are thinking of setting up in the spring is a premise that since the housing is too expensive, the elderly will be made poorer and thus forced the municipalities to build or find cheaper housing, and that is a logic that we do not entirely agree with. To cut the economy of the elderly in order to get the municipalities to make discount solutions for them, we do not think in any way makes the lives of the elderly any better. It could almost be said that this is a form of old-age dumping. It is already difficult to find and build cheaper housing for the elderly, as it is by its very nature a form of housing which has certain accessibility requirements and is therefore often more expensive. In addition, it should be pointed out that it is not possible for municipalities to lower the rent level for existing buildings. So we think it would be very good if the parties to the agreement here today confirmed that, when this agreement comes into being in the spring, it is absolutely certain that the rent on the homes has already been reduced by crown and that an agreement has been made with the municipalities guaranteeing it, without cutting down on the core welfare and the conditions of the elderly in other areas. If we first have to go through such a period of spending the elderly with a low income of DKK 150,000-250,000. as a lever to increase the supply of cheaper housing in such a who blinks first-match between the government and the municipalities, then this is not a proper project. The government and DF have to deal with that. So we suggest you find other ways to lower the rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102635	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102641	Dear Minister, what kind of mess are we in? First, you make a financial agreement. Then there's no financial agreement after all. And at the time of writing, 35 minutes before we have to third process it, there is no financial agreement. The parties behind the so-called agreement can just come back and ask for more, in other words, a commitment to new future expenditure. Expenditure is financed by new expenditure and an agreement is not an agreement. It is certainly a very special new financial law tradition that starts here and which the Minister of Finance is now in charge of. We are adopting a Finance Act in which we owe in advance. Two lines below has become a city in Russia for the government. I dare say that although the hunting season on deer officially ends here in January, I guess that the government's support parties will continue the very special version of the hunting season to well into the next year. It sails for the government. It hasn't even got a little fine finance bill in place. But anyway, the Prime Minister has been so busy saying that there was a big hole in the box when the government stepped in. Then there wasn't. On the other hand, even the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has now had to acknowledge that it is messing with the financial law we are going to adopt for next year. There is a mess and chaos about a Finance Act that we will be debating in a few minutes. I know what the Left would have called it if they were in opposition. They would have called it irresponsible, and that's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102831	I guess you're gonna have to swing up in the rhetorical tree row here. But it is for this reason that it should be the first time in history that there has been a so-called negative budgetary regulation in relation to the Finance Act: I should just like to hear whether the rapporteur thinks that this is the first time in history that a negative budgetary regulation has been made, as in this case, or is there precedents that the rapporteur can recall?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102900	There are certain precedents of negative budgetary regulation. That's not really what I'm arresting. I am assuming that you will first make a financial agreement with a very narrow majority in the Danish Parliament and, according to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, the authorities have even begun to administer it, and I do not know whether it is right or not, but the whole of Denmark, if I may say so, has been put into it and after it has been withdrawn, you go out because there will be some consultation answers that you could have included, and there will be some calculations you should have made from the beginning, and will remove it all at the last moment in a very messy course, which will end up with us not knowing anything about which parties are behind what next year. That's what I call unusual. Of course, we also made negative budgetary adjustments under our governance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102943	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216102945	It was just because I understood that it was a mess and that it was sailing and that it was all awful because it was now making a negative budget regulation of 90 million. kr., which has then been agreed to be translated only in the new year. I could understand that was a huge problem. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that a negative budgetary regulation was made, I think it was in the Finance Act 2014, when the current rapporteur was at that time a member of the government. Well, it's a method you've used in the past. Then, as far as I remember, the amount was far, far greater. So for this thing about calling it mess and chaos, and I don't know what, I'll say we have a financial agreement, and the third we'll deal with in 1⁄2 hour. Budget regulation has been made; it was also done under the then SR government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103026	I can confirm that negative budgetary adjustments were made, but I cannot confirm that this was done in the same way as the government has done in the last two days. The fact is that we have no idea what is going to happen next year, i.e. whether the government actually has control of the economy and whether there are parties behind it to conduct a responsible economic policy for Denmark. It is in any case clear to me after the comments made by both the Danish People's Party and several other parties. There are lots of things you'd like to spend money on... we're a lot of people who would like to spend money on a lot of good things... but the interesting thing is where you're gonna get the money from. And that's what's in the dark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103104	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103111	Thank you. Calling the process in recent weeks with the housing service chaotic is probably almost an understatement. But in SF we are delighted that at least right now we are not going to cut the housing allowance. For, as Enhedslisten also mentioned, there are 325 000 pensioners and disabled people who will lose part of their housing benefits in January alone. Then they must cross their fingers so that it is only in January and that hopefully they will also get that money back. But the problem is that when you have to find the funding that, among other things, you have to find it. Liberal Alliance was to be found, not just in 2016, not just in 2017, but in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, etc. It will then be a quite, quite large amount, which the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance and Conservatives, will have to find with the country's pensioners, the country's disabled, when you cut their housing benefits. But it is also not related to what we heard from the Danish People's Party's rapporteur this morning on TV 2 News, namely that pensioners should be freed from that, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said. And in the opening debate the President of the Danish People's Party replied from the platform to a question I asked about the housing allowance that it was one of the thistles that had to be negotiated out of the Finance Act. We must, in fact, not succeed in doing so. In any case, the Danish People's Party was not awake when negotiations continued, because an agreement was eventually concluded which contained significant savings on housing benefits. It was so cold, and I think that is a positive thing to be commended for this, but the problem is that they have only temporarily postponed the savings that they put forward by the government. Now it is to be negotiated in the spring, but it is completely uncertain whether the 325 000 pensioners and disabled people who will have their housing benefits cut in January will also be able to look forward to a permanent reduction in housing benefits, which was the result of the government's original draft Finance Bill and was also included in the Finance Act, which the Danish People's Party had also signed. I think it is thought-provoking that we are now in a situation where we are told from the platform that discussions will now begin with the National Association of Municipalities. Yeah, mein Gott, why didn't you do that in the first place? Why did it not take a discussion with the municipalities to reduce rent costs for the elderly and the disabled in the municipalities before cutting housing benefits? After all, it is a huge question that is being asked here today. It must be said that it is hypocrisy of the worst disappointment when the Danish People's Party was busy saying that now one group had to be freed, now one had to pick out the times, and when it comes down to it one signed an agreement which cuts down precisely on those groups. And since there is media pressure, support for the financial agreement that has been signed by oneself is being withdrawn, but it cannot even be negotiated completely; it has to be postponed. So now the savings are to be taken not only in 2016, but also in the coming forecast years, in some negotiations that will take place in spring 2016. I would say that it is a cruel time for pensioners and disabled people to face up to believers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103417	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103424	This has been a rather unusual process that we have been through. After all, the starting point has been an explosion in housing benefits, an increase in the number of pensioners and an increase in the consumption of housing benefits. We have then looked at how to regulate it for the benefit of society and the Danish welfare society. That is why there has been agreement that price regulation should take place instead of wage regulation, so that the mechanism that we have in the vast majority of areas and that various governments have used was followed. We have tried to look at how to take the top of the increases in benefits so that other areas of welfare could be financed, including in the area of the elderly. It has then become apparent that there have been some calculation problems with some of the family types that have been. No one has been interested in the poorest pensioners; no one has been interested in the people who do not have very much money. Therefore, there has been agreement to look again at the housing benefits area in the spring. We are completely behind the financial agreement that has been made and the agreement that was made yesterday, which means that we are looking again at the area of housing benefits in the spring, while at the same time we have been added to the fact that we have looked at the unfair special tax on pensions for the elderly and the unfair special tax that is also on waste in the form of a fee for very small and medium-sized enterprises. So all in all, I think that this unusual process has ended quite sensibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103608	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103612	I shall be very brief. That is the same question I put to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. It is simply a question of whether the rapporteur believes that the Danish People's Party, with yesterday's agreement, is also forward-looking, i.e. in 2016, 2017 etc. Does the agreement from yesterday mean that the Danish People's Party will be involved in cutting these 500 million? kr. on the housing allowance for Danish pensioners and early-retirement pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103649	What is agreed is what the text says and on which the four parties agree, namely that we should try to find the money in the area of housing benefits. We've given each other a hand on that, and we think we can do that. So, of course, all four parties are behind that agreement. But you can make an agreement that is also socially balanced, and all four parties will of course do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103709	Then the rapporteur's list has been exhausted and I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216103722	Thank you. As you know, the conciliation parties agreed yesterday to withdraw the housing allowance proposal. We did so because a large number of questions have been asked which we have to answer, and that is why we considered it most justifiable to withdraw it and to put ourselves together in good order in the new year and to look at the answers that have been given and resume the negotiations. I would like to make it clear that, in the course of these negotiations, we have tried to draw a picture of the fact that this is something very, very atypical and very chaotic, but there I would like to say that these negotiations have not separated themselves from other negotiations for which I have been responsible. This has thus been done within the usual framework of how to negotiate finance laws. There has been a discussion among the parties, and the discussions have been based on the government's draft Finance Act, i.e. the initiatives and budget improvements presented by the government on 29 September. For the purposes of the discussions, descriptions of the government's proposals and their economic impact are prepared, and this is quite normal practice. On the basis of this, the parties in the Finance Law negotiations are asking a number of questions about the proposal. It may be questions about the government's proposals, it may be requests for changes to the government's proposals, and it may also be proposals for completely new initiatives. This is a perfectly normal practice, and this is the way to conduct negotiations. I would like to emphasise that all the material prepared in the context of the negotiations and the financial agreement, including the housing services package, has been prepared and presented in accordance with the usual calculation principles. I can then just note that, in the wake of the agreement on the Finance Act for 2016, a number of concerns have been raised in relation to the consequences for certain groups of elderly people, but that is what we are now addressing, and I am pleased that a solution has been found that will allow better time to deal with issues and clarify ambiguities in relation to the proposal. I'd like to go to sir. Finn Sørensen, who has raised a very specific question, namely whether letters have gone out, say that I have to admit there is. This is, of course, a reflection of the timeliness of the administration, because it was a very late third reading of the Finance Act and of the follow-up proposals that we had, and there is a very short deadline for 1 January. This has meant that calculations have been made in Payout Denmark, and I have just been informed that Payout Denmark has stated that due to technical conditions it may be difficult to stop the adjustment for the accommodation allowance in January. However, it is of course the case that affected citizens will be compensated for any minor payment as soon as possible, so that the error that has arisen will be corrected in the light of the withdrawal of the bill by the government. The agreement on housing benefits was then also accompanied by an agreement on a few other things: the issue of fund taxation, to which we will return in the new year, and we will discuss the equalisation tax on pensions by 2020 and the possibility of making the waste charge for companies an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104151	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104157	Thank you. Now, in the course of today's debate, we have been circling several different issues, and just to make it absolutely clear, as they say, I would ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that we are agreed that it is still intended that in 2016 it should be sought to implement budgetary regulation in the area of housing benefits. This means that in the spring of next year, pensioners will receive housing benefits today, which will be cut in their housing benefits. So, first of all, if the Minister of Finance can confirm that the Danish People's Party is so wrong when they claim that the bill has been withdrawn completely and that it is not going to happen. And secondly, that those people who are now coming here from 1 January to have a regulation of their housing benefits are being compensated for it in return for being re-regulated later in the spring. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104259	What I can say is that the bill has been withdrawn. There's no bill. A technical amendment has been tabled, a negative budgetary regulation has been introduced into the Finance Act, and that is the implementation of it which the parties are meeting about in the new year. As stated in the agreement: The parties agree to seek to implement budget regulation in the area of housing benefits in spring 2016 on the basis of a presentation from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104329	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104330	Well, I understand that, and I can read it as well, but when we sat at the consultation late last night, there was very much doubt about the understanding of the government and of the Danish People's Party about how exactly these lines were to be understood. That is why I ask again and ask the Minister of Finance from the Parliament's platform to confirm if it is not true that what is going to happen in the spring is that there will be pensioners who are currently receiving housing benefits that will be cut in their housing benefits. Is that not how the agreement should be read and understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104400	The agreement must be read and understood as it says, namely that a technical amendment has now been tabled, a negative budgetary regulation in the Finance Act, specifically in 2016 with 90 million. kr., which we must find, but also in the years of estimates. That is what we need to translate, and that is what we are meeting about in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104424	The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104427	Thank you to the Minister for answering my question, which I have put to previous rapporteurs. Does the Minister not agree with both the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur for the Left that such a thing cannot be done? It is, of course, to administer in breach of existing legislation, that is to say, to start changing the housing allowance of pensioners without being legally justified. So I guess it can't be called due diligence. Then I guess you've become a little too zealous. I would like to ask the Minister whether he thinks that these are some crazy views that come from both his own party's rapporteur and from the Danish People's Party. So just a factual question: are the conciliation parties behind this proposal for housing benefits informed that Payout Denmark would put this into effect or that they have put it into effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104524	I regret that they are not, and it has come as a surprise that this is the case. But it is a result of the fact that the law would then enter into force on 1 January that one has prepared oneself in Paying Denmark. This is a regrettable situation, but everyone will be able to recover what is being paid too little here on 1 January, and this will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104554	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104555	Thank you. The Minister will have to deal with that with his conciliation parties. It can well be taken as an indication that in this case the government has felt absolutely sure that it had the full support of the Danish People's Party to implement this bill, otherwise it would not have dared to implement it. So I would like to hear the Minister for Finance: are you not a little too zealous when you start to administer in violation of current legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104625	I do not know how to regret this, but it is a result of preparing for legislation that will apply. The fact that we have come into the situation where we have drawn the bill is, of course, deeply regrettable. And the minor adjustment which may take place here on 1 January in the case of some pensioners will be restored as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104654	The next brief remark is from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104655	Thank you. Well, now the Minister of Finance wants it to sound like this is quite normal procedure. But I just think the last few rounds here show that it is sailing completely. Disbursement Denmark, for which the Minister of Finance is responsible, pays in breach of the legislation in force on a settlement which is obviously not a settlement after all. Perhaps the Minister of Finance should confirm that in any case is not normal procedure. I sure hope it isn't. And then I would like to know if it is the Finance Minister who has asked Payout Denmark to start before the bill is approved by the State Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104735	I think it is part of a regular working method in Payout Denmark, but I shall not be able to say what it is like. I can just regret it happened, explaining it with the extraordinary situation we are in that we have withdrawn the bill and reassure all pensioners that no one will be harmed because of it. It will be reimbursed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104802	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104804	Then I think it would suit the Minister of Finance (1) to confirm that it is a mess, and 2) to make it quite clear that the Minister of Finance has not asked Payout Denmark to go ahead with this, that it is not at the request of the Minister of Finance that these payments have been changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104822	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. I'm sorry. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104829	Well, that's okay. Well, thank you for that. No, I have to say it's not at my request. But I would just like once again to regret the fact that this situation has arisen because we have withdrawn the bill and to assure all pensioners that it will be reimbursed and reimbursed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104855	Well, then, sir. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party, the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104858	Now we have heard very different explanations, I think, both today and the last few days. It has been said that it was a thistle that had to be removed, and then it was not removed etc. But what is the reason why you didn't at first have a discussion with the National Association of Municipalities about lowering the price of elderly housing before you started cutting the housing allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216104923	It is clear from the municipal agreement we made in June that this is a topic we are discussing with the municipalities and that we are going to have to carry out some analyses of this area, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on how to cheapen the administration, on the other, of course, of what has been pointed out by various rapporteurs here today, namely that it is very, very expensive rents that are in these nursing homes, where the individual pensioner's rent includes all the costs of common land. There we have to tackle what is probably the root of the nettle, namely that there is no economic link between those who decide construction and those who then have to finance the rent. This is a discussion that we need to address with the National Association of Municipalities, and we will do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105023	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105025	It is just a little paradoxical that after proposing to cut the housing allowance, you will now discuss with the National Association of Municipalities how to lower the rent. But better late than never, you can be tempted to say. Then I would just like to hear, because it was very difficult to find out yesterday at the consultation we had with the Minister for Finance: Will the agreement made by the Minister for Finance with the other bourgeois parties to cut housing benefits forward-looking and which will now have to be renegotiated here in spring 2016 to apply not only to 2016, but also to 2017, 2018 and 2019, which among other things. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur confirmed? I would like to hear the Minister for Finance explain whether that is the view of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105104	What the conciliation circle will have to deal with after New Year is, after all, the implementation of the budget adjustment account which is included in the Finance Act for the four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105120	Then it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105123	I would like confirmation from the Minister for Finance that it is the case that more 95 per cent. of those receiving housing benefits have low or very low incomes according to ATP.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105139	Well, I've heard about that ATP study, but I have to admit that I don't know it, and that's why I'm having a hard time commenting on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105147	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105149	All other things being equal, it is rather irresponsible if it is the case that the government has not examined what economic conditions the people have, for which one goes in and cuts in housing benefits. It is, of course, a proposal that has been in the government's original financial act, so I assume that you have examined just something. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that there is no one among these people who has high incomes. Maybe we can stretch it this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105213	I think it's a very varied picture that's in this area. I can just say that what was intended by our draft law was to free those who had only a pension plus a little more, namely an income below DKK 150,000. We then ran into some technical difficulties in relation to it, and that is why we have withdrawn the bill and now come back after Christmas holidays and are discussing it again here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105248	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105252	Thank you. The Minister says that this has been a perfectly normal process, and I think that anyone who is witnessing this can see that it is not, after all, when we are in a situation where hundreds of thousands of pensioners are paid the wrong housing allowance in January, because we were so far in the legislative process that the system, if it were to be said, had begun to change and stop it, even though we have known about the problems of that bill, as far back as October and the consequences it had. The letter from Disbursement Denmark shows that pensioners will receive the wrong housing allowance in January. It also appears that letters will have to be sent out to everyone, and 55 per cent. of them do not have digital mail. I guess that's gonna be a considerable expense too. But the worst thing is, of course, the insecurity for pensioners. My question is actually very simple: has the government in this course been brought to the attention of Payout Denmark that it will have these consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105401	I will, of course, look into that myself when this debate is finished today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105409	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105411	So we cannot get an answer today as to whether the government knew very well that because it has been so slow to rectify this or at least to postpone it, the damage has been done. The Minister does not know whether it was informed that hundreds of thousands of pensioners now receive a lower housing allowance in January. The Minister does not know if they were informed of this. Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105437	I'm sorry it happened here. We'll make up for the damage as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105444	Thank you, Minister. We will not be able to make any more brief comments, and I shall end by giving the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105453	First of all, it is appropriate to thank you for the debate, even if it was barely about what was actually the question. The question put by the questioners in this question debate is, after all, about how the process has been. Was the Danish People's Party informed about the things, the implications, the actions that will be associated with the housing benefits package, or were they not? Questions had been raised as to whether the Ministry of Finance provided the right information. In his speech, the Minister for Finance referred very briefly to this issue. That, however, needs to be stressed. It must be understood that the questions that were asked were answered and answered correctly and in the way that, moreover, is done during legal proceedings. In other words, what remains after this debate is just as much what has not been said in this Chamber, and just as much as what has been said outside the Chamber, where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has indicated that there were questions that Dansk Folkeparti was not asked during the treatment of the housing benefits package. There were questions that were not asked and therefore no answers were given. That's the same thing as saying you slept an hour. One thing remains for sure, and that is that there is now chaos. We must try to look at it here from the pensioners who receive housing benefits. If you understand the right of the article that is online at www.politen.dk now, then 325,000 pensioners have been informed that they will have reduced and changed their housing benefits from 1 January. They will be informed within a short time that they will not get it anyway. At some point in the spring, they will be informed that during 2016 they will be regulated once the parties, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservative and the Liberal Alliance, agree on how to implement the housing benefits package. Then they will be informed again that they will have their housing benefits changed. If somebody sits out there behind the screens scratching their necks thinking what on earth is going on, and thinks it's pretty chaotic, then I guess no one can think about it. However, I think we should take one thing down. This is the clear regret that the Minister of Finance gave to the many pensioners that notification has been wrongly made that housing benefits are being changed. I would also like to point out now, on behalf of the parties who have asked, that we will of course continue to dig into this question of who has known when. Sir. Pelle Dragsted quite rightly asked this question to the Minister for Finance, and that could not be answered. Sir. Finn Sørensen said the same thing. Of course we need to know whether the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Employment or others have been informed and whether active decisions have been taken on this, so we are sure that we will get the right answer from this. But thank you for the debate, even if we did not get an answer to what is at the heart of the matter, namely who has known when. It seems that we are left with the clear impression that this is primarily a challenge for the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who has not asked the right questions at the right times.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105853	Thank you to the rapporteur. That concludes the debate and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105858	Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 11 by René Christensen (DF), Jacob Jensen (V), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF), and voting is possible. That concludes voting time. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 49 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), abstentions 0. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 11 adopted. This means that the motion for a resolution No. V 10 by Benny Engelbrecht (S), Finn Sørensen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Jonas Dahl (SF) have lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216105955	I would ask that we get some rest in the Chamber so that we can move forward in the programme. I would point out that both amendments and the proposal can be commented on and that it will also be allowed to comment on the legislative proposals on the expenditure ceiling, L 2 and L 3. In the absence of the supplementary report yesterday, the Minister for Finance tabled Amendment No. 508-512. If there is no objection, I shall consider the approval of the amendments in this sitting as granted. It's a matter of course. The Minister for Finance has told me yesterday that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 174, 175, 224, 456, 471 and 507 remain. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. For the sake of fairness, I would point out that the following amendments, which appear in the supplementary report, have also been withdrawn. It is a question of Amendment No 1. 78, 79, 80, 82, 189, 192, 199, 208, 209, 248, 249, 355, 357, 359 and 360. They have therefore lapsed. After that, the debate is opened and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216110200	I stood on this platform back in October and then called on the government to conclude a broad financial agreement: an agreement that would ensure security for the Danish economy; an agreement that would have strengthened the close welfare; an agreement that would have created more jobs. Unfortunately, the government chose a different path, a narrow path that wastes money on tax cuts for rich heirs and an expensive housing job scheme that does not create significant jobs and where the bill is paid by pensioners and cash benefit recipients. It really upsets me, but my annoyance must be minimal compared to the one that the Danish People's Party voters are allowed to walk around with. As you know, I have said before that where the Liberal Alliance chose to open champagne bottles in their group room in connection with the conclusion of the Finance Act, the Danish People's Party should have served a quay bearer. I should like to express my regret today. The leadership of the Danish People's Party cannot escape giving a single quay after what we have experienced in recent days, because the flicks are queuing. First, the dog was fed with its own tail, or as Mr. Bent Bøgsted said so aptly here from the platform last week at the first reading of L 67, quote: we did not get through as much as we would have liked. Now, that is honest talk, which I believe many of the Danish People's Party's voters, despite the bad result of the negotiations, appreciate. They were negotiated under the floorboards, and in fact the dog was fed its own tail, while the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative and the governing party Left themselves got the big bites of the cake. So there, right there, the capsule must smoke on the first quay bearer. The next flick was when Danish People's Party's support for the cuts in housing benefits came into place, or rather by trying to hide from the voters, that one went into it with wide-open eyes. The housing benefits package has now been postponed, which we have just discussed for a few hours, but the Danish People's Party remains committed to saving in this area. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has done his utmost to make it sound as if the consequences of the savings on the housing allowance for pensioners were entirely a surprise to him. We must understand that the right questions had not been asked at the right time. We know that is not the case. Of course, the Danish People's Party has managed to ensure that there were pensioners who had to pay. They just thought none of their constituents would notice. That was how it was in the '00s. We remember that when the Danish People's Party did something other than what they said. The difference between then and now is that the Danish People's Party has become so big that you can no longer crawl under the radar. Right there the second quay bearer came to the Danish People's Party's Group on Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's bill. But it's not the end of the flicks, is it? Kristian Thulesen Dahl tried to decorate himself with borrowed feathers after the Economic Statement was published last week. Here the estimate for real growth was adjusted upwards from 0.3 to 0.8%, and this led the Chairman of the Danish People's Party to say, quote: The figures show that there is an increased effort in the area of elderly people and hospitals, which helps to increase costs. Quote out. But it's wrong. That is wrong, because as you can read directly in the Economic Statement, the Financial Act does not affect asylum costs and it is a lower consumption in 2015 than expected, which has led to the upward adjustment from 0.3 to 0.8%. In other words, exactly the same money will be spent in dollars and cents on public spending in 2016 as the government played out in September, except for the additional costs resulting from more refugees. That is also what we have heard from the Minister for Finance in consultation. So here too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has moleskined out of his back pocket to give a round to the now hard-tried parliament group. Seriously, it is probably very good that coffee is being served here today in the Chamber, because there is a need for the members of the Danish People's Party to be quite clear in their minds when they later vote on the amendments to the Finance Act. For dear Danish People's Party, it is not too late to correct the biggest mistakes of this year's Finance Act. It just requires you to vote in favour of four simple amendments... four amendments tabled by the Social Democrat Party, because we sincerely hope that it will bring Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to reason. Believe me, there are certainly several things we would have liked to change, but let it go. Let us focus on what can still be corrected if only the Danish People's Party wants to join. So the question is, is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl he is not present today and the rest of the members of the Danish People's Party ready? Here's the recipe for how, with only four votes each, you can fix the pussy. First of all, you can vote in favour of our amendment to completely drop cuts in housing benefits. Then we are sure that the pensioners who already have the least will not have it any harder. Because we know that when you meet in the spring, the savings knife hits again. Secondly, by voting in favour of our amendment to cancel the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, you can ensure that children do not grow up in poverty. Then you can vote in favour of our amendment to cancel the reduction in the inheritance tax so that those who have the most to do will not be further gilded. And last but not least, you can vote in favour of our amendment to abandon the housing job scheme because it is expensive and it creates too few jobs. In my opinion, that choice should be straightforward. Of course, a financial agreement with the Social Democratic Party had looked quite different, and I am very sorry that the government insisted on narrow block politics. We volunteered for the negotiations with widespread arms, willing to compromise. Our only demand was a financial agreement that created more private jobs and a financial agreement that invested in core welfare. We could have had that. We could have strengthened the fight against social dumping. We could have ensured better and more continuing training and retraining, so that we all get on with the recovery. We could have invested in our children's day care institutions. We could have secured the elderly from savings on their housing benefits. We could have secured the municipalities against negative growth in the years to come. We could have done so much good in connection with this year's Financial Law Agreement. But unfortunately, sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl something else, and it ended with champagne at the Liberal Alliance and a Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who could barely be in himself after the agreement had been concluded. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl I say this out loud because he is not here: let me just say it out loud. We do not have to listen to the usual talk that there was a hole in the box and that you had to find the money, because the Financial Act is an expression of the political priorities that the government and its supporting parties want. This is not a policy of necessity, nor was it a photoshop with the economy after the SR government. If you are in doubt, you can only read the Government's own December Economic Statement. Economic statement shows that this year, in 2015, the deficit will be 20 billion. kr. less than what was expected in the so-called cashier's check-out. The downgrading goes from 3%. of GDP at 2%. of GDP, a downward adjustment which, I believe, comes on top of the government's upward adjustment of the economic room for manoeuvre by 2020, which was made only one month after the cashier's check-up. The conclusion is that once and for all, the Minister of Finance must throw his check-up in the garbage bin. The minister should crawl to the cross and recognise that it was far better than the government has expressed. Since this summer we have had to listen to long complaints about checkouts and holes in the box and photoshopping, and what do I know? However, as the Minister for Finance has acknowledged in an open consultation in the Committee on Finance, there was no end, and I quote, to the economy under the SR government. Let us now get the economic debate in Denmark to start from the factual point of view. We have moved out of a crisis, away from an EU recommendation that limited our scope for action, and now there is the prospect of modest growth in the coming years and increasing employment. And then there is an economic room for manoeuvre up to 2020, which gives us the means to invest in welfare, if that is what gives priority to a room for manoeuvre, which is at least as large as before the elections, and that is, of course, positive. There have been enough excuses from the Danish People's Party. Now we want to see action. For the sake of good order, I should like to mention that, as a responsible party, the Socialists will, of course, vote in favour of the overall budget proposal. However, we hope that it will be by a majority in favour of the amendments which I have just outlined in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111225	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a large number of brief comments and we are trying to reach as many as possible within the 45 minutes allocated for debate here after the first rapporteur's speech. And the first brief remark is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111240	When you listen to the Socialist rapporteur, you can hear that the Finance Act is full of ills. But Mr. Benny Engelbrecht did not mention that the registration tax on cars was reduced from 180%. 150 per cent. If this is a bad thing, that is, according to the Socialists, then it is certainly not worth mentioning here at the third reading of the Finance Act. If you can take it as an indication that if the Socialists come back to power in three years or seven years or how long it may take now, then the Socialists will not raise the registration fee to 180%. Again?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111322	If sir... Ole Birk Olesen can guarantee that the Social Democrats will come to power in three years' time, first of all I would very much like to accept that offer. Secondly, generally speaking, we are not starting from what can happen then. We do not know what else will be done by strange measures in different directions in the years to come. So what things we would then want to change, we will, of course, present to the electorate in advance of an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111353	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111355	So, at the Liberal Alliance, we can easily tell, and so did we when Mr. Benny Engelbrecht was a minister. If the Minister carried out things that we thought were bad, we said that we wanted to roll them back after the elections, and we said this on a regular basis. - Sir, you can. Benny Engelbrecht didn't see. Another thing that has been introduced into the Finance Act during the negotiations is that the rate of interconnection for free and private schools, i.e. the percentage of grants in relation to the cost of a public school place, has been raised from 71 per cent. is 73 per cent. Mr. Benny Engelbrecht isn't like a bad thing either. In other words, the Socialists do not want to reduce the coupling rate to 71 per cent. Again?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111437	Unfortunately, at the third reading of the Finance Act, I have only 10 minutes available for my rapporteur's speech, which is why I simply cannot go through all the ills of the Finance Act. That would take much, much longer speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111453	The next brief remark is from Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111500	This is quite interesting, and I would like to continue a little along the same lines. The Social Democratic Party has resisted the fact that it is now becoming cheaper for the private Dane to buy a car. I guess it has to be rolled back. I guess you don't vote for bad things. Social democracy finds it bad that the ordinary Dane can go out and buy himself a cheaper and safer car. Can Benny Engelbrecht answer if you want to roll it back? At the same time, I would also like to ask whether there is also a target for electric cars to be exempt and whether they want to be introduced. It will be spent 2.6 billion. kr. on, so that some of the most expensive cars you can buy in Denmark, among others. a Tesla, which now costs close to 2 million. kr., only half the cost. It must be exempt from duty, so that instead of drawing 2 million, the director can draw 2 million. kr. tax only has to deduct 1 million. kr. from taxes. Is it really understood that the ordinary Dane must have more expensive cars and then the most expensive cars must be completely exempt? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111556	I don't know if it hasn't come to light. René Christensen, but in fact the Social Democrats are in part of the financial agreement that lies, among other things. the part that is about electric cars and where we, together with the Danish People's Party, have wanted to introduce a tax on these expensive cars. There may be some challenges with which to do so, but this is a solution that we have found together. So it seems a little strange to me that it should be a problem, because it must then also be a problem that the Danish People's Party is included in that agreement. What I wonder is that you can afford to make the most expensive cars as much cheaper as you actually do in this agreement. For all the honour and respect that you want to make a family car a little cheaper, but that is not what you have isolated it for. You haven't set a ceiling on it. So that a Porsche becomes as much money cheaper as it gets, I don't think there are many cash aid recipients who can understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111704	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111707	What is interesting is that you spend all your speaking time talking about all the ills that are: now there will be cheaper cars for the richest. But I can find plenty of quotes that the Social Democrats want electric cars to be exempt from duty. Then I just ask again: you have made a compromise; you have done so together with the Danish People's Party. We do not think that electric cars should be exempt; we think that this is a sensible agreement that has been made. That, sir. Benny Engelbrecht has fought for, is that in the purchase of among others. a Tesla must be 1 million. kr. discount in relation to the registration fee. Would you not make that proposal if one day you gained power? And then we will probably also propose that the Tesla should be cheaper and that the ordinary Danish consumer's car should be more expensive, since it is quite awful that it has become cheaper for the ordinary Danish citizen to go out and buy himself a cheaper car, which is also safer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111756	I simply do not believe that Mr. René Christensen listens to what's being said from up here. We've made an agreement on electric cars, hello, sir. René Christensen forgot? There can be no doubt about that. There will be a tax on electric cars. It's almost as if Mr. René Christensen is on a slightly different planet, where you may be talking more about housing benefits than about what is actually in the agreement on the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111824	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111829	Yes, it must be a pity when you try to have fun, that it is not really received out among the audience. But let's just leave it alone. There was a great deal of criticism in the rapporteur's speech. Most of what was there was of course about ills, and in addition to that, as both Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and Mr. René Christensen has asked, however, did one critical speech after another have been made by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament a few individual amendments, but should I understand that it is a criticism of the Finance Act that has been voiced? I note that there is criticism that development aid is being adjusted; I note that there is criticism from the Socialists that research is being adjusted; I note that there is criticism that education is being adjusted; and I note that there is criticism that there is a re-priority contribution for municipalities, etc. and so on, but I merely noted that no amendments have been tabled in this Chamber. So is it merely an expression of loose criticism, but will not stand by it, when it comes to the matter. You do not want to table an amendment which, of course, also means that you should demand that there be some funding behind the proposals you may make or is it just criticism for the sake of criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216111935	Now I thought I had made a rapporteur's speech which would please the rapporteur of the Left, because I almost avoid criticising the Left, because I almost avoid criticising the government, that is, it is all about the Danish People's Party, which dares not take a proper responsibility for what we are proposing with our amendments to actually change some of the biggest knots that are in the Finance Act. As I say in my rapporteur's speech, we are well aware that a financial law for which we had taken responsibility had looked quite different from that which is now in place. But now we are dealing with what is at stake and suggesting that the Danish People's Party will have the opportunity to do so by voting in favour of four amendments to remove some of the worst thistles. That is our approach to it in relation to the amendments. Then it can be said that it is a good question to ask whether we could have been included in a financial agreement. The times we have been over to talk to the Minister for Finance, it is not the case that the Minister for Finance has slammed the door in our mouths; he has, as such, just seen quite quietly and peacefully saying: it really sounds very comprehensible, I just want to make a financial agreement quite narrowly, alone with the blue parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112041	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112043	Well, I am also dealing precisely with what is here, namely a financial law agreement, a financial law proposal. There I note that the Socialists refer to a few of their own four amendments, but that they criticise criticism of criticism without wishing to make a proposal that will change anything. So I ask quite specifically, and let us just take an example, about the criticism which, among other things, is being made. The Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, and Mrs Mette Gjerskov have put forward about a saving in development aid, is just a criticism that is made in terms of words, or whether it is something that we want to stand by, by putting forward a concrete proposal that will roll it back.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112119	But it is quite simple, because we want to address precisely what is the criticism in my rapporteur's speech today with our amendments. So, my criticism in the rapporteur's speech today goes exactly on the very biggest thistles that we believe the Danish People's Party is adding votes to. Then there are a lot of things that, by the way, we think are a challenge. And it has to be said that if there is something that is, for example, a challenge for development aid, then it is a question which we, among other things, are asking. I should like to make a statement on Monday or Tuesday in this Chamber and for which I understand there is not a majority behind the government at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112159	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112203	I am a little surprised at the rapporteur's speech here, because the Finance Act is a sensible one, in terms of giving business a better environment, providing security for homeowners and a little better conditions for families. However, I would like to address, for example, the homeowners, for whom the rapporteur has, of course, made a great deal of regret that we have now reduced property taxes, that is, for ordinary families. Is it the intention of the Social Democratic Party to raise housing taxes if one gets power, as one has observed, to raise housing taxes again, so that ordinary families should sit worried and wonder if they can stay in their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112243	That is actually very funny, because I did not mention that question in my rapporteur's speech at all, and yet the Conservatives are taking it forward. I do not know whether it is because I was overlooked in my rapporteur's speech because the whole criticism went to the Danish People's Party. It may be. At any rate, I understand that the Conservatives are genuinely pleased with the financial agreement that has been concluded. I would be, too. So, the smallest party in the Danish Parliament has in fact had many times more influence on the financial law than the largest bourgeois party, that is, than the Danish People's Party. One has really been able to change one's voices into extremely much. In answer to the specific question: there is, after all, a clear line on what should happen in relation to property taxes. There is such a relatively broad consensus on this in the Folketing. I have also noted that an increase in 2016 has been suspended in isolation. It's not like we're adding votes. But what will happen after 2020 will have to be seen then.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112350	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112351	That is why the question was relevant. For the resulting increase, housing owners save 2.3 billion. kr. Until 2020, and it may well be that the Social Democratic Party will have influence before the end of the year, I hope so, of course, so the question is relevant to the homeowners out there: Would you like to collect the winnings and raise the housing taxes for the homeowners? The same applies to the other proposals, which have certainly not been mentioned in the speech here, because it was a dispute with the friends of DF, but all the tax cuts we have given the companies and families after all: is social democracy so much against making life easier for companies and for ordinary Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112428	Just for the record, I'd like to say that I assume that when Mr. Brian Mikkelsen refers to the Danish People's Party as his friends, because they are his friends. I understand the question, of course, that there are doubts about the very fact that we in Denmark generally have a policy in the area of housing, which is that there is a limit to how much tax can increase in different areas. We do not intend to challenge that in any way whatsoever, and that offers the security and stability that one can expect as a homeowner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112504	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112509	One can hear from the rapporteur that he has forgotten the misfortunes of the previous government. I could, of course, mention various ministerial rocods, the sale of DONG, which got SF out of the government, and the yellow health insurance certificate, which increased the user fee for Danes when they traveled abroad, yes, I can mention several things, including the 2012 tax reform, where the Social Democrats hit pensioners, which meant that pensioners received DKK 3,500. less annually when the tax reform was fully phased in. I would then like to hear the rapporteur when he comes with a lot of acid gall from the platform: is there anything the rapporteur regrets during his reign in relation to the things the previous government has introduced, that is, increased user charges compared to the yellow health insurance card and to hit pensioners and people with disabilities in relation to the pension? Well, that would be nice to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112611	Mrs Karina Adsbøl himself mentions the issue of tax reform, which I understand that, despite the extremely violent criticism voiced at the time by the Danish People's Party, we have now agreed to be included in the rate pool agreement. So I think you should be careful with that kind of thing... they tend to go back like a boomerang.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112629	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112631	But the rapporteur did not answer the other questions at all. I mentioned the yellow health insurance card, which increased the user fee for the Danes, and the various ministerial roaches, in which all the ministers should also have a copy. I think there were at least nine. It is just as if the rapporteur is standing on the floor forgetting his own period of government. It is not long ago that the rapporteur himself sat in the government where one had the opportunity to make a real difference, and that is simply being swept under the carpet. You stand and come with a lot of gall, but simply displaces your own reign and all the misfortunes you created, especially in relation to pensioners. It was precisely the Socialists who brought that bill and we voted against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112719	Mrs Karina Adsbøl overlooks one thing: it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the Danish People's Party who are holding the crucial mandates now. What we are going to vote on here is not what happened in 2012 in connection with the tax reform, which the Danish People's Party has joined since then. What we are talking about here is the Finance Act 2016 and Mrs Karina Adsbøl can change how the course will be in relation to the Financial Law Agreement, by personally voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party. That's all it takes. Only Mrs Karina Adsbøl's voice is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112758	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to say that there are seven short remarks for the moment, and when I look at the bell, it seems that we are reaching all seven. The next brief remark is from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112816	I would like to ask the rapporteur some of the comments that have been made, for example. on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who said: 'Let it also be a message to the government: the world needs more cooperation, more trade and more help. You will save massively on development aid. Is that really the right answer? Does that mean you'd roll back the development aid if it were up to you?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112845	I think that is very clear, in other words that in many ways it is the wrong time to do the things we are doing now. I understand that if the calculations, which are enlightened to me, are correct, then the largest recipient of development aid from Denmark will be Denmark. And it is clear that it will then be possible to make less effort in what is called a little popularly known as the neighbourhood, thus preventing the large flows of refugees that exist. It is, of course, a debate which it is quite appropriate to take up and which I think deserves an answer, by taking the lead in making broad-based agreements from the Prime Minister's side too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112927	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112930	Thank you. Now we are increasing our efforts in the neighbourhood, but I interpret it as if the Socialists are going to roll back these savings. That's 2.4 billion. kr. How will the Socialists finance it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216112945	In general, we cannot know when the Social Democratic Party will take over the government in Denmark. It would be nice if it were already next year, but we do not know that, nor do we know what decisions the current government, with the fantastic composition of a little unruly or a little chaotic parties behind it, will find. So it would be quite premature to say what things you would roll back and not roll back when we do not know what the economic situation is in Denmark at the time when we had to take over the government power.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113022	The next brief remark is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113027	Thank you. The rapporteur is standing on the floor and reproaching us for the priorities of the Finance Act. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether Mrs Mette Reissmann, when she has said that the savings on research are glaringly foolish, has she called it "and that, despite the fact that there is enough money, the government has decided to cut education and research brutally with very negative consequences, expresses the general position of the Socialists, that is to say, that it is glaringly foolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113106	If I remember the definition expressed by the Left's financial rapporteur before the 2015 parliamentary elections, then it was that education is perceived as core welfare. And on the same occasion, the rapporteur of the Left, the current Minister for Defence, mentioned that savings on nuclear welfare, including on education, would be kept free. So, of course, I think it is a very interesting question to get from the very Left. After all, there is no secret that we have also taken responsibility for the research reserve. Even if we do not agree with the framework, we take responsibility for distributing the funds, because that is the way it is, of course. Where we have broad settlements, of course we also take co-responsibility. This also said that, of course, we would also have liked to have been involved in influencing the Financial Act more broadly. But that was not the case, and I believe that research and training will be affected by reading newspapers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113216	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113218	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur himself mentioned at least four amendments in his speech, and I understand that it is an expression of the general position of the Socialists that it is blatantly foolish. Will the rapporteur not tell us why the Socialists have not tabled amendments?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113239	As I made very clear, our amendments are addressed only to the Danish People's Party. Mrs Jane Heitmann does not need to worry at all. I do not expect Mrs Jane Heitmann to vote in favour of this. I expect each of the members of the Danish People's Party, of which there is virtually no one left in the Chamber now, to take a position on these amendments and to consider whether it was not now necessary to weed out the worst thistles.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113307	The next speaker, who has a brief comment, is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113313	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would say that I thought the end was a little sad and defensive. The Socialists will, of course, vote in favour of the Finance Act, regardless of whether or not anyone will vote in favour of our amendments, the rapporteur said. It is to show responsibility, said the rapporteur. In other words, the Socialists will vote in favour of a financial law, even if we do not get the four nasty thistles mentioned out, even though there are bloody cuts in development aid as bloody as we have not seen, while I have been an adult, even though subsidies are being given to owners of sports cars and to owners of villas at the expense of pensioners. Is it true that in the world view of the Socialists it is to show responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113405	This could easily be the oldest discussion of the century between the extreme left and the Socialists. I will not tire of the long version of it, but just say that the Socialists have entered into not insignificant parts of the Finance Act because a Finance Act is always a patchwork of conciliation, and Mr. Christian Juhl of course also well from then, Enhedslisten entered into finance agreements with the SR government and by voting against we would also be against what we ourselves are part of. We recognise that there is a very, very narrow majority in favour of the government's economic policy. It's very unwise. We think it would have been much wiser to make a broad financial law agreement, and I think the Danes would have thought so too, but that does not change the fact that it would be a wrong signal to send out that you do not take responsibility for the country's financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113507	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113511	Thank you. It is true that I have voted in favour of most of the financial laws that have been thrown on the table while I have been sitting here, but I have not voted in favour of financial laws for which I cannot vouch. And I believe that responsibility for the bloody cuts is also taken, for example. development aid, as the rapporteur himself said, gives more money to Denmark than to developing countries. I mean, isn't it a little inconsistent just to say: well, we are a little critical of it, but everything has to go on and we should vote for it anyway? Where's the pain limit? When is a financial law so bad that the Socialists will vote against or perhaps, a little cautiously socialist, abstain?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113558	As far as the things that we are involved in are concerned, of course we are voting in favour. We can, for example. I would also like to acknowledge the principle of implementing what is known as the DAC on development aid, that is to say that part of development aid can be used to finance refugee expenditure, and that is why we will also be voting in favour of the amendments that are specifically concerned with it. However, we are not voting in favour of the other proposals in this area. So with our vote you will also be able to see which parts of the Finance Act we are in and which parts we are not in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113639	The next brief remark is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113645	In fact, I would like to follow up on the question raised by my colleague, Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, please. When the Social Democratic Party comes to power, and they do so statistically at some point, will the Social Democratic Party roll back the reductions in registration fees? You have to be able to answer that question if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113710	There may have been a great many things going on before a parliamentary election had to come out so fortunate that the Socialists, I have to understand, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, for statistical reasons, is taking over government power. I do not really care whether it is statistical or whether it is because the voters prefer us, as long as it happens soon, but there are a lot of things that can happen in the area of car taxation too. Changes and reforms may have been made by then, and it may be difficult to predict what this will entail. I think it is inappropriate that there should be a change in registration fees, which will mean a relief for the most expensive cars. But, of course, there may be reason and reason to believe that there are some cars that can become a little cheaper, for example. The ones that drive a long way on the liter. However, as I said, many things can happen before the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113807	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113810	So what remains is that there is enormous uncertainty as to what the social democracy will do in relation to the car tax. It is clear from the rapporteur that the tax reliefs which the Liberal Alliance has received from the Finance Act in relation to the registration fee will be rolled back. That is the uncertainty that remains. We find that regrettable, but of course the citizens have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113840	No, what the Danes are preoccupied with, what they are worried about, is what the current government could do in conjunction with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. After all, it is absolutely impossible to predict what cuts will be made, what cash benefit recipients will have to pay for the bills. That's what people are worried about. I simply believe that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen needs to get out in real life.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113905	The next brief remark is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113910	Thank you. Now we have heard of a great deal of dissatisfaction and criticism from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. I would actually like to try to create a little Christmas spirit with the Socialist rapporteur and try to turn things into some of the very many positive things that are actually included in the Finance Act. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the increase that has been secured in the Finance Act compared with the free schools is one of the things that the rapporteur really thinks is a very good idea and supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216113954	What I am pleased about in the field of education is that it has succeeded in freeing vocational schools from the savings that had been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114001	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114004	Yes, I am also very pleased with the part in the field of vocational training that we also got in place in the Finance Act. But if we take it back with the free schools, and I know that in the area from which the rapporteur himself comes, it is extremely important that we also have the opportunity to have free schools, I would like to ask once again: is this something that the Socialists are planning to roll back, or does the rapporteur think it is actually a very good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114039	On the other hand, I must say that it may well be that Mrs Anni Matthiesen is very concerned about free schools, but just before we agreed that it was good that we had exempted vocational schools from savings in 2016. I would just like to remind you that savings will be made at vocational schools in 2017, 2018 and 2019 if nothing else is done in all sorts of other areas of education as well. So if you can find out a little thing, that's fine. However, given the scale of the savings also in the area where both Mrs Anni Matthiesen and I have been elected, it will cost dearly in an area where there are already major challenges in terms of getting young people to take a qualification.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114128	Next to brief remarks, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114132	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. As the rapporteur also said before, the rapporteur has made every effort to address his speech to the Danish People's Party and not to the government. We in the Left feel a tiny bit overlooked, but we can make that right. I can also understand that even the amendments to the financial bill are aimed at the Danish People's Party, which is perhaps a bit strange, since it is the government that is putting forward the draft Finance Act. I would just like to try to go a little further on some of the questions that Mr. Jacob Jensen mentioned earlier, which is, of course, about the fact that the Social Democrats have criticized, among other things, the situation. The re-priority contribution, the adjustment of development aid and the reduction of funds for research, but one just cannot really look at the amendments tabled by the Socialists that they are actually opposed to it. So it's just to make a little noise in the street and walk around and be against something that you're only against in your word and not in your action?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114240	First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, I am very sorry if the government and the Left feel overlooked. That was certainly not the intention and purpose of my rapporteur's speech. So, first of all, I am sorry. But as I said, we can make it right. Now Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself, less growth in the municipalities, that is, what is popularly called the re-priority contribution. It is quite true that it is not in Bill No. L 1, i.e. the financial bill, but it's in L 2 and L 3 in the parts we're dealing with together with this. And there should be no doubt at all that, both with the amendments we tabled for the second reading and with our vote today, it will be clear that negative growth in the municipalities will be implemented by the government, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative and the Danish People's Party alone. It is the Danish People's Party that votes for minus growth in the municipalities in 2017, 2018, 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114342	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114345	Yes, then the Danish People's Party snuck back in. We know they've grown bigger, but we have the right to serve. Come on! It is quite possible that this is something that is being treated together, but then let us take the development aid, in which the rapporteur's party has also been very busy criticising the government for making savings. In other words, if you think it is so terrible, why haven't you tabled amendments? Is it because you cannot find the funding, and is it because it is just such pure populism to run around and say: we are against it, but we are not really?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114418	As my speech showed, what we are trying to remedy is the greatest thistles. We are directing four specific amendments to the Danish People's Party, so we have the opportunity to remove the worst thistles. Nor is it a secret that the elements contained in the amendments to carry out what is called the DAC on development aid will, of course, also take responsibility and vote in favour. We do not share responsibility for the other parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114446	The next speaker on a brief note is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114453	Thank you for that and thank you for the very great attention that the Danish People's Party gets from the rapporteur for the Socialists. The amendments, as far as I can understand, are aimed almost only at the Danish People's Party, although it is the government that has put forward the Finance Act, so we are grateful for that too. It's amazing how much attention we get. So there have been a lot of criticisms of the Finance Act, and yet the Socialists are voting in favour of the Finance Act. It may be a little surprising, in other words, that the Socialists are voting in favour, even though one is so critical. Maybe it's because this housing allowance has now been taken off the table for 2016. I think that is a good thing, and perhaps the rapporteur should also be pleased about that. My question is really about public growth. Can the Socialists' rapporteur here today confirm that what the Socialists voted for in June was a public growth of 0.6%? For 2016? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114556	First of all, I would like to say that Mr. Peter Skaarup does not need to worry at all about whether the proposal on housing benefits should be decisive for our overall vote for the Finance Act. And Mr. Peter Skaarup, of course, also well when he knows our history of taking responsibility for the overall financial law agreement, if there is, moreover, a parliamentary basis that supports the financial law agreement. But let us turn to the issue of public growth. It's got to be said, sir. Peter Skaarup's party chairman, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, has misplaced the text, what I also said in my speech. It is absolutely true that we are no longer talking about 0.3 per cent. growth, but on the other hand 0.8%. This has been achieved by a technical adjustment because there has been a decrease in consumption in 2015 so that growth has increased by 0.2 per cent and, in addition, asylum costs have increased for 0.3 per cent. So this increases from 0.3% to 0.8%. The main reason has been an increase in the influx of asylum, so there has not been the immediate slowing down promised by the prime minister. In addition, there is the technical adjustment because there has been a decrease in consumption in 2015. These are the elements underlying growth of 0.8%.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114714	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114718	It was a little difficult to fully understand what the answer was actually about, but what is at least the bottom line for 2016 is that the Social Democrats went to elections on a public growth rate of 0.6%. The growth we see in 2016 ends at 0.8%. Well, then, sir. Benny Engelbrecht talk about minus growth in all sorts of places, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht told about in his speech, but the situation is that there will be public growth of 0.8%. Then there may be 0.3 per cent on asylum expenditure, but it is surely not the case that the Socialists in their public growth for 2016 would not have financed the asylum costs that were. On the contrary, the policy of foreigners would have been much more relaxed under the previous government, and this would have led to considerably higher asylum costs, it has to be assumed. So the bottom line is that 0.8%. public growth will be higher than that on which the Socialists voted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114816	We'll count the seconds up here at the chair table. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114820	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Peter Skaarup can be pleased that the largest single increase compared to public growth in Denmark has increased the influx of refugees. I believe in many ways that it is new to the Danes that it is something that can be welcomed. Like I said, no, I just have to challenge one thing. When I talk about minus growth, I'm not talking about minus growth in 2016. Then I am talking about the minus growth that the Danish People's Party will vote for in 2017, 2018, 2019, and which year by year will mean that the municipalities will have to deliver 2.4 billion. kr. kr.! The Danish People's Party is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114859	The last person to speak on short points is Mrs Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216114905	Thank you. The rapporteur is not very much in favour of the negative growth in the municipalities. In the Liberal Alliance, there's another kind of minus growth we're not that much for. That is the minus growth in the core welfare, that is to say, exactly the things that the public must actually manage. They have to provide good service. One example is primary school. I have been in consultation with the current minister the other day, who could respond with some new figures on primary school. How has the development been since the Social Democracy was in power and carried out a very large reform of primary school, which prolongs school day so much that every hour has been 26%. cheaper? 26% In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that such a re-prioritisation contribution of 1% or 2%. is very reasonable. This means that you can find expenses that are not necessary. But 26%. Does the rapporteur think that this is a good way of saving?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216115013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216115014	In fact, I have some doubts now, because Mrs Merete Riisager mentions the re-priority contribution in the municipalities. Then Mrs Merete Riisager says that it seems that a re-prioritisation contribution of 1-2 per cent is considered. is reasonable. As we know that what we are going to vote on, which the Socialists do not vote on, is a re-prioritisation contribution of 1%. In the municipalities, I just need to be absolutely sure of something: is it an official Liberal Alliance proposal that the re-priority contribution in the municipalities should be 2%?? It is interesting in itself. There is no doubt that it is easy to streamline certain areas, but there are different approaches to efficiency. So what the current government is doing is going in advance and taking 2.4 billion. kr. a year, 1%, and reserves them to be used for anything. In other words, the municipalities are not guaranteed that they can be returned to improved efforts in the municipalities, and this must mean that in the years to come there will also be less money in the primary school area in order to make these improvements in efficiency in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216115123	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216115125	Of course, I am not here to change the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and I think the rapporteur knows that too. What is the interesting question is whether the rapporteur thinks it is reasonable and whether it is to be expected that you can deliver just as good quality in schools when every hour costs 26%. less. I think it's a lot. I have no problem with efficiency in the public sector, but 26%. less resources per year; hour. Does the rapporteur think that the quality of schools can still be achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216115200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216115202	There is a broad agreement, there is a broad conciliation circle that has concluded the primary school settlement. And I am quite sure that there will also be some good debates on the implementation of the public school settlement. But what I note is that basically it will be the case that in 2017-2019 the municipalities will get a little less money to work with, among other things. Because the Liberal Alliance votes for it. And I find it very difficult to imagine that this will not mean that the municipalities will actually have to cut in concrete terms in the area of primary education. I find that very difficult to imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216115236	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue in the rapporteur's line before we go to lunch. The next speaker is therefore rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, René Christensen. Here you go, it's 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216115247	Thank you. The Finance Act 2016 is a very good Finance Act. The Danish People's Party is pleased that we have a new government. The Danish People's Party is pleased that we have been able to help influence the Finance Act. So what is the budget law? Among other things, it contains: a dignity billion. What size is this? A dignity billion. Is that just the kind of billion that comes out to the municipalities, and then you can put it into one end, and the question is, is it going to work for the elderly on the other end? In particular, it is. Then why does it do that? That's because this dignity billion was translated into legislation, so among other things. In the municipalities, a policy of dignity must be established. You have to work with the concept of dignity. It is also the case that the municipalities must translate their dignity policy crown by crown of the money coming out. It will also be the case that it will not be the office that controls this money. It's gonna be the city councils. It's not gonna be the committees. It is town council decisions with which the dignity policy must be approved. It is the city council that has to approve if we change the concepts of dignity, the policy of dignity. We hope, of course, that the municipalities will accept this as an exercise in working with this new concept. What we have seen, unfortunately, is that when you have looked at ageing policy in the municipalities, it has been service standards that have driven it. And that's kind of a bit colder fact compared to the service standard. There you can go into an ark and see that if people feel that way and so, what are they entitled to? This is another way to look at it. So you look at the concept of dignity. We have also made it very clear to the municipalities that it is now not a requirement that it is really important when doing this that the staff and others should be involved in the development of how to incorporate dignity policy into the municipalities. That's 1,000 million. kr. annual. It is continuous operation, and it is not a pool that comes for once. It's year after year. That is the way it is, so in the first period you will follow it very closely. The conciliation parties will also be taste judges and look at how the municipalities choose to translate the funds that come from the dignified billion. It will then be passed on to the municipalities, but not over the block subsidy, so that the municipalities will see that there are some who get paid back, as happened with the former elderly billion. No, what they will experience is that the money will be translated into the place where the elderly live. So it is the demography that is crucial. The municipalities with many elderly people receive more funding than the municipalities with fewer elderly people. Well, the money follows the elderly. It's a fantastic deal that we're really happy about. It can help to meet the challenges facing the municipalities. And it's not just because the municipalities have done bad things and the municipalities are bad. It is also, of course, because some municipalities have been particularly challenged. Then we are very pleased that 2.4 billion has been set aside. kr. • health care. And why is that? Sometimes people tend to forget, but I think that a lot of people remember the debate that took place a few months ago when they discussed life-long medicine. Is that something everyone needs? Are you going to have such categories where you should not use life-long medicine? That was the discussion that was going on. The regions find it difficult to finance the rising cost of medicines. We've seen patients lying on the halls. We have succeeded in getting through the fact that, of course, we should not have a discussion about who should be given life-long medicine. We are not going to have a discussion about how many are going to be on the halls. We need to have a discussion about the fact that there should be no one on the halls. That is why we are very pleased that, in good cooperation, we have managed to obtain the resources needed to ensure that the agenda can also move forward. On the security agenda, we are very pleased that, for once, we have managed to get more officers. What is happening now is that for the first time in many years we are training more officers. What does that mean? Yes, that means that the service to the ordinary citizen will be much better. As a citizen you will experience in a few years' time, when these officers have been trained, when you call the police, if you have had a break-in or any other minor offense, a real cop will come. Then you should not be told that they cannot, because they are overburdened, they do not have the police to have enough to deal with, and therefore they cannot deal with these criminal cases, which mean a great deal to the individual. You shouldn't overrule having a break-in in your home. Yeah, no one's been killed. Did something happen? The insurance's gonna pay. Well, what does it mean for the individual who experiences coming home to a home where everything has been pierced? People have been walking around in children's rooms and elsewhere. Of course, it affects people, and we have to prosecute these people, and of course we have to solve these crimes, although it may not be so dangerous for the individual from the outside, but it puts deep marks in the people who are exposed to it, and there must of course also be resources to solve this type of crime. Then we are also very pleased that it has become cheaper for the individual Dane to go out and buy a safer car. What we experience is that a great many Danes have become commuters. We can see that centralisation has been enormous in recent years. Where development has been, where jobs are created, is in the larger cities. That's where the infrastructure is. That is where the educational institutions are, that is where jobs are created. Therefore, we are really happy that the commuters now have the opportunity to buy themselves a slightly better commuter car, a slightly safer commuter car when they have to drive back and forth. We think that is very positive. Then it is surprising that you can see a former tax minister standing here on the platform. I remember very well when the rapporteur became Minister for Taxation. The most important thing for Social Democracy is to look at housing taxation. That's the most important thing. We're gonna have to solve that in the Treasury. There has to be a package to solve the problem of the rise and increase in the basic debt, so that you can see that older people cannot remain in their homes because the cost is rising. That wasn't solved. What you do now is you make it very short. Now you're going to slow down. Now you have to find a solution, now you slow down while you find a solution. You think that's quite awful. You didn't deliver on your watch. You had the mail and you didn't deliver. Now there are some who say that we have to stop, and then, of course, we have to deliver, so you live up to this agenda, so people with low incomes, as it is said, I will not call them poor or weak people can actually stay in their homes as well. Even if you go from being actively employed to being a pensioner and thus earning a lower income, you can stay in your home and enjoy it. Then much has been said about minus growth. There are also two other proposals that are being discussed today. That's L 2 and L 3. What does that mean? Then we'll have Mr. Knox. Benny Engelbrecht says it's minus growth in the municipalities; now it's going to hurt. I should just like to say that under the previous government there were 60 municipalities which experienced negative growth. There were 60 municipalities out there who experienced regular minus growth. What's happening now? We have said very clearly, we have written it into the Finance Act, we have said it from the Parliament's platform what we want with the re-priority contribution. Today there are 66 municipalities which meet the requirements of particularly disadvantaged municipalities. What does that mean? This means that it is municipalities that have poor liquidity; it is municipalities that have difficulty managing their daily operations because they have a poor tax base. What is it that you can use, among other things. the re-prioritisation contribution to? When you look at these municipalities and, for example, their unemployed, you see that over 50 percent. of the unemployed do not have a qualifying course after the 9th and 10th classes. Everything shows that if you have a qualification after the 9th and 10th classes, you are far, far closer to the labour market than if you do not. One could imagine that some of this money would have to go for some of these people to get a boost on the education part too, so that they could become self-supporting and thus help their municipality to get a better tax base. Then they could go from passive support to self-supporting and contribute to the community that way through. There will be no losers in that exercise. Then we are also very pleased that the Finance Act has set aside money for a large agricultural package. It is an agricultural package on which the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party went to the polls, and it is, of course, an agenda that we meet by delivering. It is an agenda that allows rural communities to produce more, in harmony with nature and the environment, of course. But it is job-creating, and it also contributes to the need for a needy agriculture. We have to say that, unfortunately, we can service the debt that has been built up over a number of years. It's a really important thing. Another important issue is, among other things: the area of integration, including asylum expenditure. We are very pleased that we have succeeded in introducing the benefits of integration into a much larger group. And that is probably why the Swedes have the big problems that they have. We may also have major problems, we do, but on a smaller scale. Another point that is paradoxical in the debate is when the Social Democracy, the SF and the Enhedslisten stand on the platform and elsewhere saying that the re-priority contribution can only be found for a place, and that is for the elderly and for children. These are the places you have to find them. So what happens in the municipalities when you get more refugees? So what happens in the municipalities? You just get a municipal expense. There are plenty of municipalities out there who have experienced that they have been required to take quota refugees, and then they get an expense of 20 million. kr. Where do they find them? You find them. You find that money. We would rather spend the money you can find out there on re-priority contributions so that we can have a more equal Denmark. It is not okay in a small country like Denmark with 98 municipalities that 66 municipalities experience that they are particularly disadvantaged. We want a more equal Denmark, a Denmark where everyone has equal access and equal opportunity to enter the labour market and become part of the education process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216120315	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will take a lunch break in a few minutes, and therefore the short remarks will not be taken until after 8 a.m. 13.00. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130021	The sitting is resumed. We are in the process of rapporteur No. 2 in the series of speeches, sir. René Christensen, who has delivered his rapporteur's speech. So we are ready for the brief remarks. The first to a brief remark is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130044	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the elderly area. Now we have been discussing this housing allowance, and it has come to light and found that there is still a deep cut in relation to pensioners, which is just going to happen in the spring. The rapporteur then goes in and says that, on the other hand, we have had a dignified billion for the elderly, and I think that is a very good thing. The unitary list itself has fought to take account of this area when it was we who were the parliamentary basis, and we also secured increased funding for the area. What we just often experienced was that the appropriations, when they came to the end, did not end up out there where they were going. And when I look at the agreement that the Danish People's Party has made, I can well doubt whether that will also be the case here. So my question to the rapporteur is really very simple: will the rapporteur guarantee that perhaps even put something on the line here? that when we are back here in a year, the standards in the country's nursing home have improved and not deteriorated, and then the number of home help hours provided has increased in relation to the number of elderly people and not reduced? It is just to mention two of the parameters that I think are the most central to whether our care for the elderly is getting better or worse. It is not a polemical question; it is simply a wish to hear whether the Danish People's Party is really aiming to improve conditions in the older sector. And then we can come back in a year and see if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130210	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130211	First of all, I have to correct the rapporteur's view that housing benefits and dignity billions can be linked together. Sir. Pelle Dragsted started by saying that now you want to cut back on the elderly. But it is the case that the proposal on housing benefits has been removed; it is not part of the financial law that we are going to adopt later today and that we are debating. It is the case that those negotiations have been postponed until the spring, when one has to look at how to do it, and that comes, among other things. also to be about the rent going down. So it has nothing to do with each other. I'm sorry to say it, but it has nothing to do with each other. In fact, in relation to the issue of dignity billionaire, it is very clear that the dignity billion should be added on top of the budgets adopted for 2016. And it is the case that the municipalities have now adopted their budgets, so they cannot put them into one end and drag them out to the other end. We are simply keeping an eye on this. They must return to the Ministry with an accountant's endorsement that the dignity billion has been added to the agreed budgets for 2016. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130314	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130315	I think that is very positive, and in the agreement that has previously been in the same area there were also a number of such control mechanisms inscribed. So I would just like an answer to my question: would the rapporteur dare to stand up for the fact that with the handles that have been written in and that we have unfortunately not really worked in the past, the individual elderly in nursing homes will find that there are more staff and not less staff when we are here in a year's time; that the individual elderly who need home help will experience more home help and not less home help? That is because we talk so much about figures and re-prioritisation contributions, but what matters to the individual elderly is whether things are getting better or worse. So does the rapporteur dare to stand up for the fact that this agreement will be the case here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130406-2	Thank you for a very good political question. There are not so many of them in this Chamber, but this was one of them. Because it is quite true that we have tried to pool too many times in the children's and other areas • Some people have made Enhedslisten, some have made the Dansk Folkeparti and other parties and then we have seen that it hasn't given the effect in the municipalities, as you expected it would do when you sent more money out there. That's why we've been trying to make it even more like this, and that's why it's gonna be a piece of legislation where you're gonna have to release it here on top of the 2016 budget; you're gonna have to work with the concept of dignity. And this has to be on top of the service standards, which is why this isn't just about looking at it, compared to what it's like for a service you get. You also have to look at how to get the service. There must also be time, as we have said and some have laughed about it, but we do believe that if you are older and woman, there must actually be time, if you have always been used to it, to get a little cheeky on. And that money will give you more warm hands. And it is also in this proposal that it should give more warm hands. These are not administrative drivers, etc. etc. to be employed. They are the ones who are out there where the elderly are, so you can give them a dignified care and not just the acceptable care that you can put up in an excelark. It's about dignity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130521	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130527	Thank you, President. It is now well described that there were elements in the housing benefits package for pensioners that were not sufficiently clarified prior to the finance agreement that the Danish People's Party helped to conclude. So, the Danish People's Party did not feel that they had been asked the right questions at the right times. It is quite well described that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl acknowledged. This may then seem a rather unusual question during the third reading of the Finance Act, but I have to ask Mr. René Christensen to the cash aid ceiling. Have you read the hearing answers, the warnings that have come, how it will affect families with children, and the consequences it will have? I am asking because the question of housing benefits was clearly not properly addressed. So I would like to be quite sure that it is with open eyes that we are going to agree to the huge savings that result from the cash benefits reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130639	I can guarantee that. We have, in effect, come to the vote on the introduction of a ceiling on cash benefits. And why are we? We are because we have been able to see that there has been an irregularity in what kind of benefits you could receive and what amount of available money you could have on passive support. In fact, I believe that both the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have a great many voters out there who stand up every morning and do their job and pay full price for having their child in day care every day. There we have had a system whereby the ceiling on cash benefits was removed, which had an impact on a group. Then Mr. Benny Engelbrecht say that everyone could make more money by going to work. Yes, it is true that you could, and there are plenty of calculations of that and plenty of answers on that, but the amount you could earn was relatively small. That is why it is quite open-minded to say that you are now setting a ceiling on cash aid, and it is not a matter of children's families now being able to do nothing. So that is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130730	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130730-2	No, a few days before the election, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl very clearly that he would not cut the cash benefits. I think a lot of Danes have taken stock of that. Then Mr. René Christensen say: Well it is not the cash we cut, it is something else, it is the housing benefits etc. There comes that long explanation. But I'd like to ask Mr. René Christensen: Can we not confirm that single parents on cash benefits are cut in their benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130811-2	There is not one Danish citizen who gets cut into the cash benefits not one. In fact, if you look at the cash benefits for a single person, you can see that each benefit is very small. Then it is absolutely right and we said so to our constituents before the election, we have gone to the polls on that that we will introduce a ceiling on the total benefits you can get on passive support, on cash benefits. We have done so in order to have a fair system. So it should not be the case that the people who stand up and do their jobs every day do so because they should do so. Of course, you also have to do it because there is a gain in it. Then it is true that some calculations can be made that say you made 1,000 kroner. by going to work on the old system. I just wanted to say that it was too little. There were some who had too lucrative schemes on passive support, and we have chosen to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130900	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130908	Thank you. I would like to return a little to the process of this whole financial law, which has been a sinful mess, where it has gone back and forth: then there was an agreement, and then there was no agreement. Last time we heard that benefits are actually being cut, although there is no legal basis in place. There is a letter circulating from Paying Denmark that the political rapporteur should have been informed, and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said so earlier this day. Does the Danish People's Party think that this has been a satisfactory process? Does the Danish People's Party think that this is the right way to make finance laws in the Kingdom of Denmark, a way that provides sufficient security, security and accountability in economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216130950	No, it's not if you're just looking at this case about the housing benefits package, you can ask what it is that has been discussed the last week. After all, it is not the proposal that has been discussed. After all, it is not the political agreement that has been discussed. It is the implementation of the political agreement that has been discussed and it did not agree with what had been decided politically. So if anyone is unhappy, then it is the Danish People's Party that is dissatisfied with the way you have been serviced. It has caused so much insecurity in the elderly. They have been told that there will now be a bill that will lose 16,000 kroner. a year in their rent subsidies and that there are now older people who will be put on the streets. After all, one has been helped by an opposition that has been out saying that now the sky is falling. But that is not what was in the political agreement. It is true that that was the consequence, because the service provided to calculate the consequences of the political agreement was not correct at the right time. So if anyone is unhappy with this, it is at least the Danish People's Party; I can only confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131045	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131048	This leads me to ask what the Danish People's Party will do to avoid this again. For even if the Danish People's Party does everything in its power not to assume responsibility and not to appear as someone responsible for anything, you have a responsibility when you enter into an agreement without making sure what the consequences are. So what will the Danish People's Party do and what will Mr. René Christensen does so as not to bring neither the Folketing nor the citizens or, I would have liked to say, anyone else in the same situation as the one we are now in, where we are in the middle of a third reading of a financial bill without really knowing what we are really going to vote on?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131123	Firstly, the Danish People's Party would like to take responsibility, and indeed we do so with this financial law in one way or another. The second point is that it is disturbing that this can happen when so many parties sit together and make a financial law surrounded by an official work. It is not to say that this is normal; there has been one mistake here, and I am quite sure that this is a unique case. Otherwise, we have a challenge. It is the case that we parliamentary politicians across parties have to have faith in that, and we also have that when we ask section 20 questions and other questions, it is the truth that we are told. It has been shown here that the paper on which we based the agreement was not in line with the agreement that was made, and that is highly questionable. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131210	Mr President, on a brief note, the next item is the debate on the report (Doc. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131214	I would also like to begin by congratulating the Danish People's Party. Now you've made a financial agreement. Then, of course, we'll have to see if it lasts all the way, because so far it's gone a little wrong. But you also have to look at the content. You've got an older billion. No, you haven't, because it was the one that was abolished this summer. It has been renamed a dignified billionaire. The rapporteur then said that an amount of 2.8 billion has been paid. kr. for health. No, it has not been, because it was in the government's own draft budget, so there is no influence there either. Then we have secured these savings in the area of pensions, and they have been put in place, at least postponed until spring the decision on these few billions to be saved in the area of pensions in the coming years. Then we are still left with a question about the agreements made by the Danish People's Party. There is a railway fund which is a settlement for better and cheaper public transport, and there a certain degree of uncertainty has been recorded in relation to the financial agreement that has been concluded. I must admit that I am actually a little puzzled that one can sit as the bourgeois wing's largest party and actually stand completely empty-handed after a financial agreement. Because you didn't get an elderly billion, you abolished it this summer. Well, then you've renamed it as a dignity billionaire. You didn't get extra money for health. What have you actually got in the Danish People's Party to make an agreement with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131333	I would very much like to take this opportunity to reply to that. It is the case that the older billion, as was previously the case, has not been removed from the municipalities. The municipalities have got it over the block. That means they can now use it for anything. They can use it to make asphalt, but they can also choose to use it in the older areas. And there, I would say, the city council politicians have a duty to ensure that the money earmarked at an earlier stage remains in the area of the elderly. This is an opportunity to give priority to local authorities. That billion hasn't been removed. It hasn't been removed. And if there are more who such apologize, I say it will claim that the billion has been removed, then they have an explanation problem, because it is not. It's all over the block. Then there has been a new dignified billion, earmarked for the elderly and intended to create a dialogue on dignity. It's a whole new way of distributing this money, and I'm sure there are some municipalities that would say that it's retailing the municipalities. But it is in order to have this dialogue on dignity, and it is also necessary to make a policy of dignity. And then there's 2.4 billion. kr. to get the patients away from the halls and for us to finance the medical grant. More cops have arrived, too. This Finance Act is a very good Finance Act. That's the way it is. We're happy with it, really happy with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131446	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131449	Well, I think it's really nice that you try to talk this up. Because that is a form of hypocrisy. One was busy telling the Danes what they could get from happy gifts if they voted for the Danish People's Party. And when we have the draft budget, we can see that they have actually got zero and zero. I mean, you've renamed this older billion into a dignity billion. We have not had time for that in the first round, because there are many things that have not been secured a re-priority contribution which basically ensures that the municipalities now have to make massive savings year after year, and indeed also in the rapporteur's own municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131526	It's unbelievable. Now I have been a post-school teacher, and I have had many students who were challenged to hear what was said, but I would say that I have never actually experienced anything like that that one hears so badly, compared to what is being said. First of all, I would like to say in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution. I think you can hear it misunderstood: in the SF you are proud that there are 66 municipalities out of 98 that are difficult to deal with. 66 municipalities in Denmark out of 98 are in difficulty. We say that we would have liked to have brought that down, and we can use the re-priority contribution for that. There you can do it, you can make a redistribution where this money can come out to the municipalities that have the challenges, so that you can raise the average character, etc. etc. It is a good financial law that has been concluded and we have got the time out, and we will get that sorted out as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131615	I would like to repeat that we have 45 minutes for short remarks, so the better you are all to keep to the seconds, the more people will speak. The next speaker is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131633	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have taken the floor to ask a few questions about the discussions that the rapporteur is going to have with the National Association of Municipalities about reducing the rent for pensioners. Is it the ambition of the Danish People's Party that the discussions should end with the setting of rents in future new building of older homes, or is it in existing old homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131705	Now it must be remembered that it is not only pensioners, because it can also be disabled people and others who receive housing benefits, it is only pensioners who have filled a great deal. It is the case that it is in some places, but it is certainly not all that it is good that there is now time to look at what is actually being paid for when you pay your rent in an old-age residence • that these common areas, staff rooms and other things that are being used by the elderly centres are placed under the rent paid by the individual elderly. There we would like to have a dialogue with KL on how to change it. So it is particularly in relation to new construction, but it is certainly also in relation to existing construction. How do we get a rent that really reflects what it should cost to be searched for a dwelling of approx. 60 m2? It is not fair that we can see today in quite a few municipalities that there is a rent of about DKK 9 000. for 60 m2.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131756	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131759	Thank you very much. Today, the rent is calculated on the basis of what it has cost to build the elderly housing, and the municipalities then invest a basic capital of 10%. So am I to understand the rapporteur's answer that the Danish People's Party wants to change it for the elderly homes that have already been built and for the rent already calculated on the basis of the construction and basic capital that has been made available? Does the Danish People's Party hope that the discussions with KL end with a recalculation simply to reduce the rent?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131840-2	When you say the elderly, you should remember that many may have such a picture that it is a self-contained residence. It's not. In the old days, it was called a care center. Today it is actually the case that when you live in what might look like a care centre, you live in your own home. This means that when you go out in the hallway, it can be seen as a public road. But it's not. It's not a public road. It's a municipal area. And all the square meters beyond the housing available to the elderly or the disabled have also been put into it. Because it is absolutely true that the cost has been incorporated into it. How much did it cost to build this center? It is then added to the individual's performance, in proportion to the cost of living there. There was a good example before. It was about someone who was searched for a residence in 2005 and who got a rent of some and seventy thousand kroner; in 2016 the rent will be over DKK 100,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131927	The next brief remark is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216131931	Thank you. Let me get on that track a little bit. I simply do not understand and I hope that the rapporteur can help me understand a little that now, when you want to reduce the housing allowance, that is not immediately, that is, immediately, but it was then a mistake, but so right in the spring, is it the case that the rent is reduced first, or does it happen at the same time as this housing allowance falls? Otherwise, all other equal pensions will be charged an additional cost. That is one question. The second is: will the rent in all elderly homes, where you now get a benefit that is reduced according to the Danish People's Party's proposal, fall accordingly? Can you give it a guarantee? Because otherwise, we can agree that it's not gonna work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132022	If all the answers were there now, the proposal would not have been tampered with, it would have been in the Finance Act, and then we would have voted on it. Now it is the case that this has been postponed until 2016, and as the agreement also stated, there is a proposal, but there is no doubt that the intention is clearly that we should get away from the fact that we are now spending 10 billion. kr. and it's steadily increasing on replacing this type of housing. It's just because we can see that the rents are exploding. Therefore, as was stated in the proposal, we cannot simply look at the need to reduce housing benefits. If you're going to have to take down the rent, you're also going to have to take down the rent. Otherwise, it is absolutely right that the only person who will pay for this is the individual pensioner. But the problem, the core of the matter is the rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132110	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132112	Thank you. Then I got the answer to that question. That is to say, as I now understand DF, it will be the case that when the housing allowance falls, the rent falls accordingly, otherwise the pensioners will be paid an additional cost. That, then, is the promise that was made here from the platform, and we must then hold up DF on that. Another promise made in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution in a previous debate I think it was perhaps the first reading that was that there would be no money from the re-prioritisation contribution to tax reliefs. Will the DF's rapporteur make the same promise here, namely that there will be no money from the lower housing allowance, that the proceeds in the Treasury will not be used for tax cuts, as soon as a lower housing allowance is negotiated, while at the same time a tax reform is negotiated?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132157	Yeah, I didn't quite understand that. In other words, can the re-priority contribution be used for tax relief? There we can say very clearly that it will not be the Danish People's Party that will vote for it. There the government has to find a majority elsewhere if you want a majority for it. There we have said very clearly that that money must go back so that you can get a boost in the municipalities. In relation to the other, we want to do it in such a way that we do not need 10 billion. kr. If we can put in place a system, and I think we can, where we get some of that spending of the 10 billion. kr. In other words, it is not very important what that money is being spent on. What is important is that you get the rents down and that we get a lower cost. Then that money is free. Then we have had a long discussion about who should pay for this. That's where we want the rents to go down while the housing benefits are down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132243	The next brief remark is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132249	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on sir. Benny Engelbrecht's question about the consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule, etc. If we now put aside all the discussion that we have at times, and which I also often have with people from the Liberal Alliance, that it is not worth working and then I say that it is worthwhile to work, and then it runs in circles, but specifically discusses the consequences of introducing the cash aid ceiling, and especially on the basis of the consultation response received by the Folketing the other day from BL - Denmark's General Housing, does it not worry the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that BL has calculated that the consequences of implementing this, especially for single people with children, will be enormous? You will see very, very many people who will have huge reductions in their disposable income; you will see that more families and single people will be put on the streets, etc. Does it not concern the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party at all when we get such a marked hearing response from some people who are working with this every single day?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132359	In the past there has been a ceiling on cash benefits, so there were no crying children on the street everywhere because there was a ceiling on cash benefits. Don't do that. Well, this is about us having a well-functioning society. We cannot have a society where we can see that those who stand up and take these jobs that are unemployed are Eastern European workers, because it is not worth taking them if you get cash benefits. Now it is the case that there is a ceiling on cash benefits, and no one can work in Danish society with the rules that are in relation to cash benefits, nor single parents. Now stop drawing the picture that the mothers are standing with the children on the street everywhere in Denmark because there is a ceiling on the cash benefits. That's not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132443	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132446	I tried to suggest that we shouldn't have that useless discussion about whether working is worthwhile, because the truth is that working for the vast majority of Danes is worthwhile. And of the tiny group, for whom it is said mathematically that it is not worthwhile to work, 93 per cent work. Anyway. That's what I was trying to prevent us from discussing. However, what I really want to hear from the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur will now stand here from the speaking chair of the Folketing and say that he is not at all concerned that 13 000 single people with children will experience a reduction in their annual disposable income of DKK 22 000 and that you will experience families being put on the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132527	What is really important is that even if you are a single parent, you use all your strength to enter the labour market and become self-employed, so that you can give your family a boost. What we are constantly talking about is how we can remain in passive support. That is not what the goal is. What is important is that the job openings that exist are attractive. And believe me, even though there is now a ceiling on cash benefits, no one is being put on the street and will be standing down there because they cannot afford a home. It's a scaremongering call it what you want and it's boring for the debate. I would say this: there has been a ceiling on cash aid before, and so no one was put on the street. Then there has been a period in which there was no ceiling on cash benefits... now we are introducing it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132610	The next brief remark is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132614	Thank you. I really wanted to ask the rapporteur if he thought that there was an okay social profile in this Finance Act when you look at this proposal on the cash benefits ceiling. I note that the rapporteur thinks it is there, and he denies all the professionals who understand this, who warn against the fact that the ceiling on cash aid and the 225-hour rule will lead to massive poverty, just as it did in the 00s, just worse because the rules are stricter than what was in the 00s. I understand that the rapporteur thinks that is quite all right. All right, then, I ask the rapporteur: what is it for? Now I understand from the rapporteur that it is for people to get to work. Will the rapporteur look at the premises of the draft law which has been submitted for consultation, i.e. that the government expects approx. 1,100 people in work as a result of these gross interventions in the availability of poor people? Is that the purpose? 1 100 in work, and then the problem has been solved, or is it not at all about more people going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132722	That's what's so great about politics. One moves from one room to another and one matter to the other. You have to have such a coherent policy. That's why we, among other things. also says that we are in favour of the re-prioritisation contribution. Why were we for that? That's one of my favorite things. I would also like to say that when you look at quite a few of these 66 municipalities that are particularly difficult to deal with when you look at the unemployed, and some of them are affected here, they have among other things. not qualifying training after the 9th and 10th classes. They find it difficult to enter the labour market. While doing this, it becomes attractive economically to go out and take these jobs too, we say that we want to help raise this group, in relation to the fact that there will be opportunities in the municipalities, so that they can also lift the single provider to get training so that you become more attractive, so that you can get out and become self-supporting. That's not an independent point. There are no unemployed people who think it is fantastic to be unemployed and outside the labour market. The story that the unemployed are lazy and that they don't want to go out there isn't true. They want to, and we want to help them with that, but we also want to help them, that when they take a job, they must see that, of course, it also brings a financial gain, in addition, of course, to a certain satisfaction, that you are self-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132826	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132828	Would the rapporteur not like to say that the government does not even believe that this ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and the other restrictions in the package that have been made here will lead to more people getting into work? Some rules are made which in principle affect 152,000 cash benefits recipients. There'll be 1,100 at work. So it's about something completely different. It is about two things, and now I have to explain to the rapporteur what this is all about and ask him to be honest about it. One thing is that money must be provided for tax relief for the Overdanmark, to which the Danish People's Party would otherwise like to try to distance itself. The second thing is that it is about chasing a horror in the lives of all employees so that they do not dare to become unemployed and so that they put up with anything on the part of employers. These are the two real aims of such a bill. Does the rapporteur not want to deal with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216132919	I do not know where Enhedslisten has from, that Dansk Folkeparti should be to make top tax concessions. I do not know what kind of quote the rapporteur has, where you can stand down here in the Chamber and say that the Danish People's Party is voting for this because you now want to grant top tax relief. What kind of nonsense is that? We may disagree with the policy, but let us now stick to the truth: the Danish People's Party is not in favour of top tax concessions. I think Enhedslisten knows that too. But we are basically in favour of the citizens who get up every morning having a low salary job, self-supporting, minding their things and paying full price down in the day care institution, of course having to be a financial gain by getting up every morning and paying their own.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133002	The next question is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133006	Thank you. The rapporteur started his first reply by saying that what had happened in the Ministry of Finance was worrying. However, I believe that what concerns not least many pensioners even more, and which we find very worrying, is what is going to happen in the spring. Therefore, my question to the rapporteur is quite simple: can the Danish People's Party today give a promise to Denmark's pensioners that they will not have reduced housing benefits with the agreement coming in the spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133053	There is no doubt that very many pensioners have become very worried, and it is not fair that they have been exposed to it. But I would also like to say, in relation to the debate that has been going on, that if you have just followed such a little bit of what the Social Democratic Party has been saying and you could almost see the annoyance of everyone, since this proposal had fallen away, it was after all that they have been out saying to the pensioners: you are losing $16,000. in housing benefits. There has never been any suggestion that someone should lose 16,000 kroner. in housing benefits. The insecurity has not come from the government or the other blue parties. The insecurity has come by the fact that there have been some errors in the calculations and that is correct. The opposition has then put a horror in their lives on these poor people and told them: Now you lose 16,000 kroner. in housing benefits. It has never been discussed, it will never be discussed, and I can give you a guarantee that it will not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133149	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133150	It's amazing that sir. René Christensen on the day it has come to light that 325,000 people will experience cuts in January on the basis of the agreement made by the Danish People's Party with the government, standing and washing their hands and saying: It is everyone but the Danish People's Party's Party's fault that the bill has been sent out. But Mr. René Christensen did not reply to what I asked, and that is why I am asking the question again. It is very simple: Can the Danish People's Party today promise that no pensioners will have their housing benefits cut by the agreement that comes next spring? It's not a question of 16,000 kroner. or any other amount. Are there pensioners who will have their housing benefits cut by the agreement that comes in spring? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133248	But what's interesting is this insecurity thing. For now it has actually been sent out on this erroneous basis, and there you can see if someone has been drawn 16,000 kroner. in their grants. There isn't. I would like to give a guarantee that this is not, of course, about the housing allowance itself for the individual. It is about having had some rents that had run out of control. You now spend 10 billion. kr. a year subsidising this type of housing, and we want to bring that down. That's where we agree with the government. But we do not want to bring it down by people seeing that they generally have a large amount of money for consumption. That's where these things have to go together. I mean, rent and, of course, this small amount that comes in housing benefits must go together. Now we have to see the presentation that comes from the government, and we also hope that a good dialogue will be established with, among others. KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133338	The next brief remark is Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133343	Thank you. I could understand from the rapporteur's reply to Mattias Tesfaye a moment ago, and also now to Nicolai Wammen, that if it is the case that the housing allowance for pensioners is being reduced, then it also means that the rent is falling. And the calculation, when it comes to reducing the rent, is done, among other things, by the fact that pensioners do not have to pay for common land. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133413-2	Yeah, that's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133419	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133419-2	Then I would like to ask the rapporteur: when it comes to nursing home building and the future home building, the nursing homes are being built for demented homes and we know that we are actually getting more and more demented buildings, that there are relatively small apartments, and then there are really large common areas. It is clear that that part must also be financed and, of course, it will have to be financed from the rent. When it comes to the places where you eat today in communal rooms, where you have common spaces of activity, etc., who will pay for those square meters if it is not paid over the rent?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133452	It is the case that we now need to have a dialogue with the KL. And what's important to us is that the rent falls. So what you see and what you see in the province is that in some cases the rents in old people's homes are far, far more than 100 per cent. exceeds the rents that may be elsewhere, also in relatively modern and new construction. That dialogue must be with KL. Then it must also be said that in some places you can experience it but it is certainly not everywhere that there are also things attached to the care centres that it may be wise to have, i.e. that you have the volunteers in the same environment etc. It can be said that then it will at least start to be on the verge of what is so targeted in relation to the elderly. With that, of course, is the dialogue we are going to have with KL, namely how we get the individual benefit for the elderly, who are being searched for a dwelling, down. It is not fair that you get searched into a home and then get a housing cost that is so high. It has, of course, been very good to have been able to get this subsidy amount from the state, but now we have come to the point that 10 billion is being spent. kr. Every year on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133545	The next brief remarks are from Mr. Nicolaj Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133551	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to go with mr. René Christensen's words go into another political space. I could understand that, sir. René Christensen was also pleased that there was another type of question in the debate. I would like to return to the concept of dignity billionaire. There is no doubt that we disagree on the priorities, but let us put this aside and then focus on the concept of dignity billions, which I think is really, really exciting and is an exciting way of seeing politics. Can the rapporteur elaborate on how to ensure that the funds that are being set aside here are used to create greater dignity? Has it considered whether it can be measured here or how will it be ensured that it goes to create greater dignity?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133647	Firstly, it is the case that a policy of dignity has to be drawn up, just as children's policy and environmental policy and other policies have been put in place in the municipalities. Now it is simply a legal requirement that a policy of dignity be drawn up, and it is a policy of dignity that must be approved by the city council. So we hope, of course, that we have thrown up a ball that you grab in the municipalities and say: how are we going to work on this new concept of dignity? We have a free hand on that out there, but we think we are putting a lot of thought into how we can work on the concept of dignity. There we have given some examples and some have laughed at it, but we also believe that dignity is that if you are a woman and you have always worn earrings and you think that is how you want to see yourself, you can actually wear earrings even if you have come to the care centre and are demented. So when you look in the mirror, you look like yourself. It is also a part of dignity. After all, we have had these service declarations, which have been very firm: then you can get so much cleaned up, then you get up by 8:00. 8:00 in the morning. The way politics has been run has been very machine-like. Now we want to look down and look at the dignity of the individual and treat people differently. There has to be room for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133751	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133753	I think it's really interesting. I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether this dignity billion can be seen as a kind of first step to seeing the Danish People's Party become more interested in measuring public service more on values than necessarily economics, i.e. on increases in those values. Could it, for example? At a later stage, are we talking about a confidence billion for public employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133829	There is no doubt that in the first place we are doing this because we have unfortunately become clever with damage, too, along with other parties, that we are putting a little bit of bureaucracy on this, which ensures that this dignity billion is placed on top of the adopted budgets, so that you get to work with it. We have also said that it is important for this money to be used to implement the policy that is then agreed in the municipalities. We haven't put down the fact that you can't think freely. But we have also laid down the need for staff to be brought in; we have to have relatives' organisations in place; we have to have voluntary organisations which also work with the elderly in order to look at how to gain more dignity in the care of the elderly. So this is really very free, but, you know, within a limited framework, you could say, to get it started. Then it is the case that in 2018 it will be given freely in the municipalities, then we release the reins.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133918	The next question on short remarks is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216133924	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke of crying children before. The Ministry of Finance's calculations have shown that up to 33,000 children will be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. Save the child has called the government's and DF's cash aid ceiling shameful. The fact is that we will have more delays with the cash aid ceiling and that we actually saw a decrease in delays of 28% after the cash aid ceiling was abolished last time. I'm worried that the real losers here could be the kids. The rapporteur himself mentions the previous ceiling on cash benefits. I would like to hear how it might be that the DF agrees to a ceiling on cash benefits that hits even harder than the previous ceiling on cash benefits, which at that time led to greater poverty. Does the rapporteur think it reasonable that 33 000 children in Denmark should be affected by the government's and DF's ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134023	Now we must not ask questions from up here, but one question might be: does one really believe that if one is a single provider and has free free space in one day's institution and another, with the new ceiling on cash aid, then one is poor? Does it mean that this group of citizens will then be regarded as poor from the point of view of social democracy? So the debate is just gonna be really hard on how to deal with these concepts. So we do not believe that you will live in poverty if you are on cash aid and are a provider. That is what the Social Democrats think. We just have a deep disagreement. You don't. Of course this is going to affect these families. They get less than they get today. That's the way it is when you make a ceiling, and we do it with our eyes open. At the same time, we also say that with the re-prioritisation contribution, we will, among other things, be voting in favour. give a boost to those places where we can see that there are people outside the labour market who are having a real difficulty entering the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134122	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134124	There will be more poor people in Denmark. I have not said that there will be 33 000 more poor children, but there will be more poor children in Denmark with the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits. The then Finance Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen said at the time at the former cash aid ceiling that it was not good enough to get people to work. Now you've been so concerned about housing benefits and the elderly in the last few days and about changing it. In fact, I do not understand why people are not concerned about changing and getting something done about the fact that there will be more poor children and more poor families in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134206	Now you have to remember that these are people outside the labour market. It is the case that an employment reform has also been carried out, and that includes, among other things: also made a refund reform. What has happened in the real world is that there are too many unemployed, including single parents, who, I apologise, have been left out there because it has paid off. Now it is actually the case with the reimbursement reform that is coming that there is no doubt that the municipalities are now getting a lot of focus on what kind of citizens we have out there, who are going unemployed and who are unfortunately not in the labour market. That is why I am convinced that a large group of these people who are being talked about here will also be very interesting for the municipalities. What is it that is needed to increase their competences so that they become attractive to the labour market? And there are job openings. When we look at how many jobs are taken by foreign labour, it's really a shame. It's gonna happen that these people can also get help to be self-supporting and thus raise their income.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134257	We can make one more brief comment. It's sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134300	So to something quite different, as I think we are saying in this context. This is, of course, due to the fact that DF's financial rapporteur has been elected where he has been elected. I think there are a great many voters on the Lolland-Falster who wonder how the financial law negotiations managed to postpone the deployment of the Storstrøm Bridge and almost hung it up on the Fehmarn connection. I assume that the rapporteur agrees with me that the Storstrøm Bridge has an independent value as a life nerve in the connection between Lolland-Falster and Zealand and the capital. So I would like to hear a very convincing reason why we have succeeded in postponing the deployment from 2021 to 2024. I do not think it is a matter of priority that the rapporteur has carried out on a local basis either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134354	Sir. Henning Hylllested, I'm surprised. That is the best question I have ever had today, and I am so happy to have it. In fact, the Danish People's Party has succeeded in getting written into the Finance Act, that we should look at this first in 2016, while at the same time having a special focus on the Storstrøm Bridge. And why should there be? Because the Storstrøm Bridge isn't just a project. It's a renovation mission. The Storstrøm Bridge is, in fact, a life-snare in relation to Europe. After all, it is also the train traffic to Germany that runs over the Storstrøm bridge, and that is why we must, of course, have it resolved. The main current bridge is not to be postponed to 2024. The challenge is then that there are some parties that are very afraid of the European Union and that you can get a letter of formal notice if you build too much. We are not so concerned about this, but we recognise it. I would like to reassure you that I am absolutely sure that we will have a good solution and that the Storstrøm Bridge will, of course, be completed before 2024.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134443	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134447	Allow me to take this as a guarantee to the electorate in the whole country, but not least in the rapporteur's own pastorate, and the rapporteur will of course be hung up on that grave and terrible. After all, a civil engineering law had been passed. The money was actually found. So I can't understand why you go to financial law negotiations and make sure you get that project postponed, not just by 1 year, but even by 3 years, because you have to go and wait for the Fehmarn connection, which you can wait for forever. So I still do not understand what kind of priority the Danish People's Party and, above all, the financial rapporteur in the financial law negotiations have had when it has succeeded in postponing the Storstrøm Bridge, which is as vital to Lolland-Falster as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134533	I couldn't have said it better myself. It is fantastic and now we are more of the same opinion, and that is very good. I am also sure that there are among the blue parties. What is the challenge here is how high the plant ceiling is, and that was also a challenge for the previous government. We just have to say that we have to look particularly at the Storstrøm Bridge, because Storstrøm Bridge is not just a new project. It's a renovation project. It is absolutely right, as it is said, that it is a life nerve. In fact, if the Storstrøm bridge closes at some point and it has happened before, you cannot drive by train from Zealand to Lolland-Falster; you will not be able to ride by bicycle; you will not be able to go from Zealand to Lolland-Falster. You have to go sailing by ferry, as you did 100 years ago, and that is why I am sure that we will move the entry into service from 2024 onwards so that we can get the new bridge faster. 'Cause I'm afraid this bridge can't stand for 2024 without us experiencing closures. So thank you very much for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134629	Now it is the case that more people have asked for short remarks, but the rapporteur has been standing up here for 45 minutes and he is not going to stand here anymore. That is why I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216134655	Thank you. As you know, the Finance Act is the whole of Denmark's budget, and it is as in our private households that the money should fit. And the government, and hence the Left, has the ambition that we will not increase the already large deficit in public budgets, but we will change the direction so that the debt of future generations does not escalate, but instead in the long term will be reduced. We want to strike a balance between revenue and expenditure in the public sector. It may sound a bit boring when it comes to borrowing a quick loan and spending the money for various good purposes. However, this is absolutely necessary if there are also to be funds for the welfare of coming years in various forms: education, care for the elderly, health care, etc. As you know, quick loans are extremely expensive in interest payments, but perhaps even worse from the point of view of society is that they create huge and costly debts and an insecurity for private sector investors who are to create the new jobs that our welfare society must live on. In addition, if we had continued with the level of deficits that we took over after the elections, we would have entered the EU's procedure for countries with excessive deficits. And if that had happened, savings and reprioritisations, which are being set up with the Finance Act here, would in size pale in relation to the demands that we would be met with by the European Union. Believe me, we have tried this before, when the global economic crisis exploded, and we do not want that again. By the way, we would be breaking the requirements of our own budget law. That is why I take it entirely as a given case and as a prerequisite for the whole discussion here today that there is agreement that the money should vote. That is why, in my opinion, the discussion should focus not on how much money we have, but more on how the money we have should be given priority. Of course, there may be different bids, but that is the starting point. In addition, of course, there is also the question of how we can create a framework whereby we may be able to make more money for the welfare opportunities of the future. These are the main reasons why the Finance Act brings Danish economy back up from the ditch side and up to the middle of the road. I would therefore also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, together with the Left, are prepared to take the responsibility of restoring the balance between revenue and expenditure. It is not always equally popular to make such priorities, and the easiest political thing would of course be to avoid making any kind of downgrading of benefits or appropriations that have already been granted. We agree among the conciliation parties that we do not necessarily make it easy, but we do what is necessary. We create opportunities for us to set a new direction for Denmark. We give priority to funds to invest in core welfare areas such as health and the elderly, while at the same time creating room for turning the direction of some of the world's highest taxes and taxes. As you know, there is a lack of money in the Treasury. The economic room for manoeuvre is in the order of 8 billion. kr. less towards 2020 than we got the impression when we took over government power. And, as you know, the check-up revealed that the money that some thought we had before the election and were able to make various promises on the basis of did not actually exist in fact there were bills that had not been paid. Yet the Left does not shake its hand. We are ready to take responsibility for Denmark's ability to move on and back on track. We give priority to a healthy public economy and sound economic development based on a re-established balance between revenue and expenditure. We want to create better opportunities for money to be made before we spend it. And we have our priorities clear, because we dare to give priority to them. We say quite clearly that appropriations, which some may have previously thought to be forever in force, are no longer necessarily so. We want to set a new direction for development in priority areas, and that requires change. We will, for example: Special attention will be given to 2.4 billion. kr. extra for health care. This should strengthen efforts to promote, among other things: demented and elderly medical patients and ensure rapid investigation and treatment. We will ensure this with the Financial Law Agreement. We will give priority to an extra billion kroner targeted at more dignified care for the elderly. We will ensure this with the Financial Law Agreement. We give priority to 0.5 billion. kr. to initiatives to ensure effective assistance for the socially disadvantaged. We will have corporate taxes removed, among other things. Four fifths of the so-called NO x We get reduced the towering registration fees on cars, so that for many ordinary families it will be possible to buy a safer car than before, and we get a plug in the increase in the ground debt so that it becomes more secure economically for many families in owner-occupied homes. We will have the advertising tax cancelled, we will have improved the conditions for the generational shift in companies, so that the many thousands of jobs created by not least small and medium-sized enterprises can also be continued when the current owner will pass the baton on to the next generation. We will give priority to growth throughout the country, among other things. through better conditions for our food industry, relocation of state jobs, lessening of the schedule, strengthening broadband coverage, to name but a few elements. This has been an area that has been talked about a great deal in recent years, but very little has been done, but at last something significant is happening for the province. We give priority to funding for the continuation of the housing job scheme, as we promised before the elections; we also guarantee that with the financial law agreement. And we give priority to money for a new multi-year agreement for the police, so that the police will continue to have the necessary resources to fulfil the tasks they face, including counter-terrorism and visibility throughout the country. Our priority is to increase the so-called switching rate for free and private primary schools so that there is greater equality and equality with public primary schools. This will result in more real freedom of choice for parents compared to where they choose to have their children in school. This ensures the financial law agreement. On the other hand, we will find means, among other things. by facilitating at the level of development assistance. We still have to be among the countries in the world that provide relatively the most aid for developing countries, and we are doing so even after the government's re-prioritisation. We also dare to point the way to the means, so that we can have even more effect, including those relating to the environment. by strengthening efforts in the neighbourhood of conflicts. We find means, for example. by facilitating the funding for research, without that implying that we still do not meet the EU's target of spending 1%. of GNP. We continue to do so, and we dare to point the way, because in this area too, of course, the funds can be used more effectively for less administration and more research. Local authorities, as a region and as a state, must also take part in the provision of funds, so that, among other things, we are involved. can create better conditions for companies to invest in Denmark and thus create the jobs and income which the municipality's economy also depends on • and therefore also the citizen-friendly welfare. Things are connected. In this context, however, it should be pointed out that the municipalities' total economy for 2016, after taking into account the re-prioritisation contribution and the added dignity billion for the elderly, really has an economic boost of 500 million. kr. to provide citizen-close service for. This ensures the financial law agreement. In short, we prioritise, and we lay out openly what we will spend the money on, and where we will find the money • crown for crown so that the money fits. In the face of this, I have immediately seen a very sparing attempt at a draft budget from the Social Democratic Party. In my opinion, a little more could have been expected from the leading opposition party than some loose remarks without indicating any priority or funding or anything that is simply reminiscent of it. But, of course, I have also taken note of what Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's earlier speech today, some amendments which have been tabled for the government's bill. I have also taken note of the amendments which have not been tabled. For example: The Socialists have criticized the government for the savings in foreign aid, but then no amendment is tabled to correct it. The government has been criticised for its re-priority contribution, but there will be no amendment; S has criticised for savings in the field of research, but has not tabled any amendment; S has criticised the government for the re-priority contribution in the field of education, but there will also be no amendment to correct it; S has criticised the government for savings in the green area in relation to urban renewal, culture, etc., but there will be no independent amendment in that area. Now I understand that only amendments have been tabled, which should be targeted at the Danish People's Party, and of course I am a little disappointed about that, but nevertheless I note the critical points. That's gotta be it. However, there is also a saying that anyone who is silent agrees, and I do not know whether that is true here, but I believe that the Socialists are actually standing by the criticism, and all the more so there is reason to find out how they intend to honour those promises when they do not intend to make it as concrete proposals in the Folketing. This may, of course, be due to the fact that it is easier to criticize others without having to face up to their own goals or accounting for alternative proposals, including finding the money for it. Some may wonder why the government makes it so difficult to take a strict financial law. The easiest thing would be just to give some more money. We do not want that, we want to have a financial law where the money will fit. We are not going to promise gold and green forests, nor are we promising as much as some might want, but in return we keep what we promise. It is about prioritising, it is about making the money fit, it is about setting a direction, and it does the 2016 Finance Act, which the Left naturally supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216135653	There are a number of brief comments. The first one is by sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216135657	I understand that it's going to be okay, sir. Jacob Jensen very much believes that we have such a strong focus on the Danish People's Party with our amendments as we do. It must also be unpleasant to be the second largest party in the government bloc, and thus to have to face all the challenges that are now trying to get the ends to meet in the government bloc. We can see, among other things. with the chaos today that it can present certain challenges. I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Jacob Jensen to confirm two things in relation to the August cashier's check-up: firstly, that the listing of the room for manoeuvre up to 2020, as shown in the August cashier's check-up of 31 billion. kr., is no longer true; second, that the deficit that appeared to be expected would be for 2015 on the basis of the August cashier's check-up is no longer true either. That's just what I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216135800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216135800-2	So we looked into the box when we took over the government, and then we found that the money that was thought to be there before the elections was not there. And it is on the basis of that that with the financial bill and the overall financial bill, which I tried to describe as a little pictorial, we are not drawing Danish economy from the ditch side, there we could have ended, but we didn't get that and looked up to the middle of the road again. That is to say, we are tightening up by 5 billion. kr. the fiscal sustainability. That is what we are doing with the financial law agreement, and we are, of course, doing so because the room for manoeuvre was not what we thought it was or what some people thought it was. It is, of course, regrettable that this was not the case, because then we would have had some more money to do with, but we have not. And we do not want to make different promises, like other parties, either directly by means of amendments or by criticising others, because we must then understand that we are going to roll back what we are criticising. We don't. We want the money to fit, and they do so with the financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216135901	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216135903	I understand, sir. Jacob Jensen just won't answer it, and that's so fair enough. And I can actually understand that because the truth is that it is quite true that there was no 31 billion. kr. There were 42.5 billion in scope up to 2020. kr. That is quite a lot more than the 31 billion that appeared in the cashier's check-up. The second is that the debt was not as high as expected. I am here with the December Economic Report it has just been published last week and it shows that the deficit is 20 billion. kr. less. This means that the deficit is 2%. Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 21 December 2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Actually, that's what I was trying to get, sir. Jacob Jensen to confirm. Well, things don't look as black as they did at the checkout.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216135945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216135946	I would like to confirm that they do not, and that is one of them. For this reason, we have made some political choices. After all, we have made some political choices which have made it look better than when we took over government power, among other things. Because we've cut on foreign aid. After all, it is the politically active choices that we have made that have released funds and that have made the room for manoeuvre that we have greater than that which Mr. Benny Engelbrecht had, it can be said, at the same time last year, because we did not accept the reprioritisations, the savings that we are now proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140019	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140021	Thank you very much. I have to say as it is, namely that it is rare for us radically to have seen a financial law that we think is so poor, points so little to the challenges of the future and is as clumsy as the one we are facing now. So I don't know which of the many things I have to tackle, because there are really enough bad things to tackle. But let me just say now, I have the chance, that the thing about taking over a bankrupt man, you know, you're wrong. The last economic statement shows the opposite. Nevertheless, the choice is made, and that is the one thing I would like to mention today: to make a historic saving on development aid. But not only do you cut it down to 0.71%, you eat it up from within, so that the development aid we can give beyond the country's borders is now down to something that looks like 0.4 percent, that is, more than half what was last year. This has dramatic consequences not only for Denmark's reputation in the world, but above all for the many people who have expected development aid. Is there a limit to how far the Left will cut development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140137	Well, we have said that we will live up to what is the UN's objective, and we are doing so. And that means that Denmark is still away, as far as I remember, in top five of all the world's countries, compared to who gives relatively most in foreign aid. We will do so even after we have made a re-prioritisation in this area. In addition, as I tried to say in my speech, it is not just a question of how much money you spend in one area, nor of developing countries' aid. No, I guess it's about what you get out of it. That is why we have also increased our efforts in the area, which I have the feeling that there is broad political support behind it, but nevertheless we have done so: we have increased that part of development aid that will work in the neighbourhood, among other things. with an effect intended to counteract the current flow of asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140224	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140226	After all, this is the hardest saving for several decades in terms of both Danish development aid and the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's something that hurts. It is something that harms Denmark. It is something that harms Danish business. It is something that harms Danish interests. But what my question was about is that we are now cutting it down to 0.71%. At the same time, we are doing what we did as a government, namely using development aid for pre-asyl expenditure. However, the fact that many refugees are being cut down so hard and at the same time they are receiving development aid that is left to prevent very much in the neighbourhoods will be much smaller. Is there a limit to how far down the sum of funds going out of Denmark can come before the Left says stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140312	Well, I'm just gonna have to arrest the fact that with the financial bill that's now in place, we're increasing the funding for a community effort compared to when Mr. Martin Lidegaard was in charge. We are increasing the funding for the neighbourhood effort by 50 million. kr. Then it is true that, in relation to the flow of asylum that is coming, we can say that we have done what we can to tighten up the rules in Denmark so that it does not become so violent, so that we have a chance to deal with it. That is contrary to what the Radicals stand for. There, however, we are trying to say that the money must of course also be taken from development aid, as is normally done in Denmark, and spent in that area. But we are increasing the funding for the community effort in relation to what Mr. Martin Lidegaard did when he had government responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140351	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140352	I would like to ask a few questions about the issue of housing benefits, which has, of course, been a subject of great debate and on which there is a great deal of uncertainty. So, first of all, a very large sum of millions would be cut in the draft budget right now, and then, under clear pressure, we had to say that, oh, that is now being postponed. It will then come to light today that hundreds of thousands of pensioners will still be affected in January, and it has also been agreed that we have not dropped this saving, this reduction, compared to Danish folk pensioners and early retirement pensioners, but we have just postponed it until the storm may have just passed. Then we hear that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is standing here making it sound like it has been taken off the table a little and that no pensioners will be affected. So can we not just get a clear answer from the government party's rapporteur: is it correct to understand that the agreement reached yesterday obliges the Danish People's Party to help find the amount agreed in the financial bill when we come across the other side of Christmas and that that amount must be found on the housing allowance for the country's folk pensioners and early retirement pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140507	I think it is very simple, and if you are in doubt about what has been agreed, then I think you should read the page, I think it is an A4 page, where it may be shown on half a page what exactly has been agreed on with regard to housing benefits, and that shows that you are seeking to find the funds in the area of housing benefits. That is clear from the agreement, and I do not think I can say it more precisely, otherwise Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself read the text of the agreement that says. But that is what has been agreed: funds are being sought in the area of housing benefits. But I think that is quite right, as Mr. René Christensen has stated that it is not interesting in itself to see how high or how low the housing allowance is. Well, I would like the housing benefits to be lower, in the sense that we might then be able to spend the money better. Now we have set aside a dignified billion, but we could do other things and, in return, bring down the rents so that, overall, we get an economic boost. That is what has been the political aim, and it remains so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140601	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140602	Yeah, well, now the money's spent on, among other things. tax relief for luxury cars and other things, so it is not money that you are going to spend, but it is money that you have agreed to spend and that you are going to find in the spring. But when I ask and not just read the agreement, it is because it does not appear in the agreement and because the Minister for Finance answered two different things yesterday in a consultation. First, the Minister for Finance replies to me that we must find the full amount of funding, that is to say the full amount of 1.9 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It creates insecurity out there, and I think that, as a responsible governing party, we must be able to respond. You have to find 90 million. kr. in 2015, or you're going down to find 1.9 billion. kr. We can also just say in 2020 that we can say 500 million. kr. In the pocket of Danish folk pensioners? Is that one thing or the other? Surely we must be able to get a clear answer from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140654	I can at least say that we should not find anything in 2015, but I think it was a statement, and it was probably 2016 that was referred to. There must be 90 million. kr., that is what is stated in the agreement, and that is where you seek to find the funds in the area of housing benefits. But it also says that we were going to have the rents put down. After all, this is what the government is going to do in dialogue with KL about, and something needs to be found in relation to the 2017, 2018 and 2019 forecasts. It is true that that is what has been agreed, and I do not know whether it is not clear from my answer, but now I hope it is clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140725	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140726	Well, it is a relevant discussion, because it was quite late last night that we got the amendments from the government and, of course, to note the amendments that we are going to be dealing with here today, when we have the third reading of the country's Finance Act for the coming year. And we can see that there has already been an advance on the benefits in the Ministry of Finance and Disbursement Denmark, where it has been ensured that 325 000 pensioners and disabled people have received less housing benefits in January than they will now actually be entitled to. I'd like to follow up on what Mr. Pelle Dragsted asked about a little earlier. The Danish People's Party was out to say that pensioners should be freed from this housing allowance. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: can we find this 1.9 billion? kr. in savings over the coming years, while at the same time fully releasing pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140825	So, first of all, it can be said that there is nothing so bad that it is not good for anything, because at least now we have a vision of legend, in relation to the calculations that have been made, shows that this is not about the exorbitant amounts of $16,000 or $8,000, and I do not know what some parties are running around with to create unnecessary insecurity among pensioners. We can then use this opportunity to check whether this is such a large amount of money, but let me stress that it will of course be corrected immediately, that goes without saying, and the Minister for Finance has also said this earlier this day. But in terms of how to find the amount, I can just refer to what we have agreed: the amount must be sought in the area of housing benefits. And then I know that sir... Jonas Dahl will say that when you look 30-40 years into the future, it will be a big amount. Yes, it does, but the costs that housing benefits would also entail and which we would have to take in other areas, if we did not do something, would also remain if we did not go in and look at if that money could not be spent more sensibly, for example, into a dignity billion, which we have now made available to the Danish elderly in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140931	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216140933	Well, I guess we can agree that when the government and the rapporteur stand and say that you spend over 2 billion. kr. e.g. Health, it is also accumulated over the coming years, just like the figures we are now using in terms of housing benefits, which are, moreover, the Ministry of Finance's own figures. However, I would just like to ask one more question: can the rapporteur assure me and the country's pensioners that it will be possible to cut 1.9 billion? kr. in the housing allowance and at the same time ensure that the pensioners go free, as the Danish People's Party has promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141007	In other words, if you are referring specifically to housing benefits, the answer is of course no, because that is the whole point. That is from where we want to spend the 10 billion. kr. But whether you are free financially is a different story, and that is why we repeat time and again that the whole idea of this exercise is to try to bring the rent down, so that the economy, not least for the economically disadvantaged pensioners, can improve, but at the same time also release funds, so that we have the means to spend on, for example, a more dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141040	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141041	It is a little interesting that the rapporteur of the Left keeps mentioning this check-up. If it were so wrong with the Danish economy, it would be a rather odd priority to spend the money on cheaper large luxury cars if there is so much money missing in the box as the rapporteur claims. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party would not give an answer to that, so I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it possible that some of the money taken from housing subsidies will be spent in the spring on tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141117	I think I have talked about this in a similar way to a question that came before at second reading or first reading about the re-priority contribution to the municipalities, and I said something like that, and I would repeat that we cannot say if cold and hot water runs together where the cold and hot water ends. Similarly, there are different sources of funding, and then I cannot identify the crown that comes from one purpose and say that it runs somewhere. Of course, we take note of the political views, but I also take note of the view of the government and thus the Left, namely that we would like to bring taxes down on labour income for the simple reason that it should pay better to make efforts in the labour market. However, I cannot stand by and say that the crown coming from a particular source of funding flows exactly in that sewer pipe to a specific location. I can't, because it doesn't work that way. The economy is, of course, linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141206	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141208	So what the rapporteur stands on the platform of the Folketing now and confirms is that money taken from the elderly's housing allowance can easily go to tax in the spring. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141222	Well, I don't know how to explain this more clearly with economics and budgets than that it is like that when Mrs Trine Bramsen makes her own personal budget, she sits there looking at: what do I have of revenue and what do I have of expenses? And that's where it's supposed to be if you don't have to take out a loan. I hope not, and certainly not from the point of view of society. That is why it can be said that the revenue that comes in comes into the box, and then you take that money up and say that you want to give priority to different places. And we have then set out our priorities. It is difficult to hear what priorities the Socialists are dealing with. For the time being, I have taken note of four amendments which are apparently aimed at a completely different party from my own. But that is what happens when you look at it from the point of view of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141302	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141303	Thank you. On top of the conclusion of the Finance Act and in some of the calculations that came in this context, it emerged that there would be growth in the public sector of 0.8%, and this whole discussion about growth in the public sector is something we have spent a great deal of time in the last year. In this context, the somewhat pressured chairman of the Danish People's Party said that the objective had now been achieved and that this growth had been achieved in the public sector. Actually, I'd just like to ask, sir. Jacob Jensen, as a representative of the government party, confirms that when one has gone from a rather small growth in the scenario of 0.3 per cent. At 0.8%, it is only about increased expenditure in the area of asylum, which is paid with money from development aid, you move back to Denmark to cover the cost of asylum, and it is also due to a technical change. When we look at what public expenditure was last year and what it is this year, it appears that there is a greater difference than was thought, and that is what makes you reach the 0.8%. In other words, the government has not increased expenditure on, for example, its financial law. In other words, there is a need to improve the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life. Isn't it correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141419	Well, in case Mr. Keating isn't here. Jesper Petersen had stopped just before the last sentence, I just wanted the answer: Yes, that's quite right. For that description, sir. Jesper Petersen gave of why the public growth of the economy or expenditure, you might say, increases by 0.8%, was right. That's exactly what it is, sir. Jesper Petersen said, but it was not so correct what he said in the last sentence, namely that there is no increased financial allocation to the municipalities. There is, in fact, a net allocation of 0.5 billion. kr. to the municipalities in 2016 with the financial bill that lies here. Yes, there is a re-priority contribution, but in return they will also be added to 1 billion. kr. But the first part of the explanation, sir. Jesper Petersen came, I can fully confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141454	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141455	I am glad to hear that, because it shows some of what has been said by the Danish People's Party. But then I will use my second question on what the rapporteur himself started with. I think the rapporteur has had his old speech taken with him from the beginning when a cashier's check-up was presented after the elections. We thought that by 2020 public expenditure could be increased by EUR 15 billion. kr. more than we are doing today and could dispose of the funds for various welfare measures. I now understand from the Economic Statement which has been presented that the government expects them to be 17.5 billion. kr. higher. Is it not true, then, that it is actually more than we expected and that the whole reason for saying that the box is empty and so on has actually disappeared with the government's own figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141544	No, because, as I tried to say a moment ago, the reason why we have more money to be able to dispose of for municipal welfare, for tax and tax relief, or what we think should be given priority is that we are actively taking political decisions on the decisions that Mr. Jesper Petersen is opposed to it. This applies, among other things, to: Some of the cuts in foreign aid, research and so on that we have been around. That is the reason why we have more money than Mr. Jesper Petersen has been a little square.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141614	Next in line, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141619	Thank you. It is also about growth. I would just like to ask the Left, because I thought it was such a slightly muddy answer: is it not true that there will be an increase of 0.8% and that only the 0.3%, that is, a small part, relates to the fact that more refugee and asylum expenditure has been incurred?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141640	Yes, I can totally confirm that. It is quite true that 0.3%. of the economic growth of the public sector is due to the fact that more asylum seekers have arrived and then the second, up to the 0.8%, is due to the other elements mentioned by Jesper Petersen, among others. that there is a lower estimate in 2015, and when you come from a lower starting point, there will be everything else relatively a higher growth estimate for 2016 than had otherwise been estimated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141704	It's called sir. Jesper Petersen. Jacob Jensen, I'm sorry, sir. Jesper Petersen. ) The next in line is Mr. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141711	Thank you. The rapporteur replied a moment ago to Trine Bramssen about mixing cold and hot, that it was difficult to find out whether the crown went out of one drainhole into the other sewer hole. I think that is how it was formulated. So I would like to ask: has the DF obtained any prior agreement that the money that comes home by saving housing benefits should not be spent on tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141739	I think this is such a strange way of asking, because the Danish People's Party can explain their policy and what agreements they have been promised and what we have agreed with the Danish People's Party. We all know sir. René Christensen and the views of the Danish People's Party on this. We have a policy that we want to modernise and prioritise in various areas, including creating a better space for tax relief. That is what I am explaining, and I am still standing away for it, and it is still the policy of the Left that is so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141814	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141815	However, in relation to revenue and expenditure, it is quite correct that the revenue received can be used for some additional expenditure. But it is quite interesting to hear whether there are in fact some prior agreements that the extra revenue that comes in here cannot be used for tax relief. I understand from what the rapporteur says that there are no agreements on this. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141842	It can be said that there is no new expenditure in the sense that the 90 million. kr. from 2016 from the housing service, if that is what the rapporteur is asking, is indeed committed to the Finance Act, and therefore this slightly technical, negative budgetary regulation has been made. But the money has already been committed, so the money, I can at least say, cannot be used for anything other than what it has been used for, namely to finance the Finance Act for 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141908	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216141910	Thank you. I have noticed that the rapporteur is very interested in the national economy and, I think, is also relatively well versed in it probably more than I am. Does the rapporteur agree that when reforms such as the unemployment benefit reform, the early retirement reform, the reform of cash benefits and now also the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are implemented, i.e. reforms which, in one way or another, limit or reduce social benefits, serve two purposes: one is to create room for manoeuvre, as it says, for tax cuts, which are mainly for the benefit of the high-paid and the rich, for example. In the form of reliefs of top tax, fortune tax and such? The second objective is to reduce wages. Can the rapporteur confirm that both are very much in the interests of the employer?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142003	No, I cannot confirm that, because wages are not something that we politically approve here in the Assembly and good for it. After all, it is the social partners who do this sort of thing. But we would like to relax some taxes and taxes, because we think it is important that some people take the initiative in Denmark, create some jobs in Denmark and thereby create the revenue which Mr. Finn Sørensen and I and other good colleagues so that in here we can discuss how we can prioritise. Therefore, the whole philosophy of reducing taxes, at least the tax on labour, is that there is a greater economic incentive to work. We know that economic incentives work. I am not the only one to say that, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen and other good people have said. So we stand broadly in the Folketing as a unit around, and that is why we are trying to set a course for tax on work to be reduced, also like other taxes, which we among other things. has added up with our Finance Bill for 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142057	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142058	Thank you. Well then, thank you for confirming the first part of it, namely that the tax cuts that are granted are in the interests of employers, companies and business owners. The second question: does this mean that the rapporteur, as well versed in the national economy, does not agree with the economic wise men who said, as recently as October in their report, that lower public services are putting some form of ground below wage levels in the labour market? If benefits are reduced, it will draw in the direction of lower wages. Does the rapporteur disagree with the generally accepted conclusion, and will the rapporteur now confirm that the second objective of reducing these benefits is to push wages down?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142151	I should just like to point out that when I stand up, it is because time has passed and then you have to round off your question. Excuse me, President). Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142157	In relation to whether it is for the sake of companies, I would say that no, it is not. It is for the sake of the thousands and thousands of jobs that are in the companies, and hence the employees who every morning have something to stand up to, who drive to their workplace and are happy to do a job and earn some money that we can then again dispose of. That is the purpose. In relation to whether or not it should help to reduce wages, it is, after all, an issue that concerns the social partners and the debate that is taking place there. It is true, of course, that it helps to make a smaller wage squeeze. That is not the way to put it. However, it is the aim that we make ourselves more competitive, so we have the opportunity to make money in Denmark for the benefit of health and the elderly and all the other good purposes we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142244	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142245	Thank you. There are, in fact, many things in this draft budget that concern me and I think there are a lot of bad priorities, but I think that one of the things that concerns me most is if you do not take seriously the warnings that come from the real world, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. We heard earlier from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, that he thought that you should stop with all the scare pictures, and that there will be no more crying children out in front of Christiansborg, when you now start rolling out the cash aid ceiling. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left how he feels about the consultation answer that has come from BL, Denmark's General Housing Office, which strongly warns against the introduction of a cash aid ceiling, because very, very many, especially single people with children, will be hit hard, and it is predicted that very many will risk being put on the streets. Does that impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142334	After all, we have just had a long discussion here at the beginning of the day about consultation answers and what you listen to and don't listen to, and of course all the consultation answers make an impression, they do. But that does not change the fact that at some point we have to make a political decision on how we view the coherence of things. And we think that the ceiling on cash benefits is fair and reasonable, that is to say, that you try to look at the fact that you have a ceiling on how much someone can get overall in public benefits when they are on cash benefits, where you can feel freer, among other things. The children's benefits so that someone doesn't get hit compared to the children's check. We think this is politically reasonable, because it is, as it were, the first stage in achieving a greater difference between being on cash benefits and receiving various public services and being on the labour market and providing, it can be said, an activity and thus a profit basis for our society. That is our political objective with this, and that is why I am quite happy with the proposal, but of course we take note of the consultation answers that are also coming in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142431	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142433	But I am glad that the rapporteur takes note of this and that he does not, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, just think that we should stop with the scare pictures of weeping children who will stand on the street, because that is the truth, and that is the reality that is going to happen, and that is also what BL is warning against. And that, in fact, was what we looked up through the 00s, from 2001 to 2011, when it was that the number of families put on the street increased, even explosively, among other things. due to the poverty benefits provided by the quite old government, while the number of deferrals from 2011 onwards decreased by 28% because the S-R-SF government abolished the poverty benefits. So I would just like to ask once again: could it not be that the rapporteur could revise the view that this might be a proper way of encouraging people to work and whether one might be able to look at if there were no other places to adjust?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142529	On the other hand, the number of homeless people increased significantly during the reign of that government, which is why I do not think there is any connection between the two things that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen here is trying to express himself. For I believe that homelessness is a complex size that consists of a great many other social elements. At any rate, we note that the number of recipients of cash benefits has increased by about 20%. Since 2011, and that is why we have to do something about getting these people done, you might say, labour market preparation, and when you are, then we have to make sure that there is also an economic incentive to enter the labour market. Because it works, and I say so, and so does Mrs Mette Frederiksen, and that cannot be entirely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142611	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142613	Thank you very much. Sir. Jacob Jensen mentioned earlier that the government does not want to borrow quick loans. I think that is an entirely sensible approach to that. I see a quick loan as something used for some consumption here and now but which will cost in the long term. Unfortunately, I see something in the draft budget in the field of education and research that I see as a kind of quick loan. Is the rapporteur not concerned about the long-term consequences of cutting public investment in the field of research by 1.4 billion? kr. 2% and 2%. in state education? Could the rapporteur imagine that in the long term these cuts will actually have a negative impact on the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142701	That would be the easiest politically in the world. That is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech if we did not have to change these things if we had unbridled funds. We do not have that, and that is why we think it is reasonable that we should also look at what we get from the funds, including in the field of research. However, let me just stress once again that, even after the re-prioritisation that we are making, we are in relation to what we are using for research, above the EU's recommendations on 1%. of gross domestic product. I think we can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142738	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142741	I absolutely believe that we agree that we must have a level of research that we can be familiar with. I would also just like to point out that this is perhaps a really good investment in society, perhaps better than some of the other investments included in the Finance Act. I should like to return to the 2% cut in state education. Does the rapporteur think that this could have some unintended consequences for places far away from the big cities? We know that the smaller educational provision, which is far away from the large cities, is more likely to come into the firing line as they become more expensive to operate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142824	I think that this is a very relevant issue that is being raised. I also remember that, at first reading, it was both myself and, I think, Mr. René Christensen had an exchange about it. That is, of course, one of the things you are aware of. But I must also say that there is the structure that we have an arm's length principle. We have independent boards out in these educational institutions, which then have to handle and assess how they get the most out of the funds. But, of course, in the agreements you make with the educational institutions, we can send out some political signals to the boards that have to administer it, about what we want to do. There I can send the political signal that we would like to have education, even where there is a long way between rooftops.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142902	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216142919	Today and tomorrow we are discussing a Finance Act which will have a huge negative impact on many Danes. Poverty, inequality, insecurity are the direct results if tomorrow a majority votes in favour of this Finance Act. One of the issues that has stirred the minds of the last few days, and that is with good reason, is the agreement to cut pensioners' housing benefits. Thousands of retired people will be affected by these cuts. And I understand that many have been surprised. I disagree with the Danish People's Party in many ways, but exactly in the area of the elderly, I actually thought that we agreed that when you were going to find some reduction opportunities, you did not go after pensioners and early retirement and people who are affected by disability. In fact, I was confident that the Danish People's Party, just as Enhedslisten did when we were parliamentary foundations, would be wary that there should be no plundering of the country's national pensioners, who are of course some of the people in our society who have the very least. That is why I was actually surprised that the Danish People's Party was involved in making a financial agreement which in this way attacked the country's folk pensioners. And I am just as surprised that we are still prepared to do so, because we have been told that in this debate today. It's not like you've dropped that cut. It is simply a delay until the storm has passed. But then you still have to find 500 million in the next few years. kr. the housing allowance for pensioners in the country of residence. We have also heard that, as early as January, over 100,000 or perhaps over 200,000 or over 300,000 pensioners will already be cut in their housing benefits because of the chaos that has been there in recent days. After all, the insecurity among folk pensioners is with good reason extensive right now. One can only call this a clear electoral deception on the part of the Danish People's Party. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that the Danish People's Party did not even once tell even before the elections that the first Finance Act, the first time you sat down at the negotiating table, wanted to cut the benefits of pensioners. That does not stop there, because there is actually a group that is hit even harder than pensioners, and it is the Danes who are so unfortunate to be affected by unemployment or disease. Families and singles with children will lose thousands of dollars a month. These are families who are already hard on it, who must already turn every penny when they reach the last week of the month. The government says it has to motivate it to work, but it knows for itself that it does not work because it has been tried before and there are no jobs for these people. There are more unemployed in Denmark than there are jobs available, because in many cases employers would rather call the temporary agency down in Lithuania instead of employing local labour. The only result of this is that many Danes will become poorer. In one of the richest countries in the world, we must again see children who cannot afford to go to birthdays or go to football, which is coupled from social communities with their comrades. I think it is sad, and I really hope that the champagne party that was held at the Liberal Alliance after the Finance Act was not a celebration of this part of the Finance Act. To celebrate the calamity of other people, to put it bluntly, it is inconvenient. I can also understand if there are many people out there who are affected by unemployment who feel well and thoroughly cheated by the Danish People's Party. For Kristian Thulesen Dahl stood in one of the final electoral debates and promised that he would not help make the recipients poorer. What is the money that pensioners are going to get from the people affected by unemployment? They go to lower the estate and inheritance tax, just not for ordinary Danes. We still have to pay inheritance tax if, for example, we are to pay inheritance tax. Inherit from our parents. No, the estate and inheritance tax should only be relieved for a specific group of heirs of family-owned companies. And then the registration fee must be reduced. Does this mean that low income families in Denmark can get a cheaper car? No, it does not, because you only lower the tax on half the cars sold, and that is the most expensive half. The two low-income recipients will not be able to afford to buy a better car. On the other hand, a good deal of revenue is spent on lightening taxes on a small group of cars, namely luxury cars, which are up to 0.5 million. kr. cheaper than today. As far as the root cause is concerned, it may be sensible to look at its development, but the way it has been done is as crooked as it can possibly be. Do you have a villa of 7.5 million? kr., save 3,000 kr. a year. Do you, for example? a small house, located outside Copenhagen, to DKK 700,000, saves you DKK 130. And if you're a tenant or a co-owner, then you're exempt. The law is so clever that only people living in owner's residence are included. All of the tax changes that are being made here benefit those who have the most, while the low-income groups, in other words many of those who work hardest in our labour market, are left with a long nose. How biased and inequitable this finance law is maybe best illustrated by telling us what it means. Let's make up two fictional Danes. We could call them Johan and Arne. Johan is a lawyer living in a villa at Frederiksberg, while Arne is a warehouse worker living in a general residence in Holstebro. When the Finance Act freezes the land in crowns and ears, it means that Johan at Frederiksberg will release thousands of kroner cheaper in 2016. But Arne, like 2 million other Danes living for rent, has no benefit whatsoever from the freeze because the legislation only serves homeowners. Like everyone else's next year, Arne's rent will be adjusted upwards as it happens. The lowering of registration fees on luxury cars by the Finance Act will mean that Johan at Frederiksberg can save DKK 250,000 if he changes to an Alfa Romeo. But Arne, who never gets near being able to buy such a car but has saved up for a Kia Picanto, has to pay exactly the same for his car as before the Finance Act. In a few years' time, when Johan will inherit his father's business, he will be less expensive in inheritance tax, but Arne, who inherits a summer house from his parents, will have no benefit from the millions that the government allocates; he will have to pay exactly the same in settlement tax. Arne could also have been named Susanne and worked as a shop assistant and lived for rent in the Copenhagen West. Or he could have been called Peter and worked as a SOSU assistant. For the tax reductions in the Finance Act, all the Danes who earn the least are targeted. On the other hand, Arne, Susanne, Peter and all other ordinary Danes can look forward to paying the bill after the party that the conciliation parties have invited Johan and the rest of the upper class to join us and it will be an expensive bill. 7.2 billion kr. The municipalities are gonna have to save because of this finance bill. So when Arne returns the kids in kindergarten, there will be fewer educators. And the visits from the home helper of Susanne's parents will be significantly reduced. If Peter wants to retrain, he must live on much less because adult training aid is cut, as is labour supervision and the fight against social dumping. These things don't mean a pat on Johan, but they help to secure Arne and his colleagues from industrial injury and social dumping. If Denmark is hit by a new crisis and Arne, Peter or Susanne becomes unemployed, they can look forward to living for a severely cut cash aid. And when Arne's kids are going to train in a few years' time, it will be in an education system that is considerably worse than it is today • after years of billions cuts in everything from high schools to seminars to universities. I think it's very, very clear that this financial law is so crooked that it's beating. Those who have the most get more and those who have the least get nothing or even less. We have tabled a number of amendments to the Finance Act, for example. on the elimination of cuts for pensioners, on the elimination of cuts for families affected by unemployment. This is what we are doing to give the Danish People's Party a last chance to live up to the promises they made to the Danes before the elections. Just a few of the DF-elected can stop these attacks on folk pensioners, early retirement and the unemployed. If not, we will just have to note that the Danish People's Party unfortunately joins the rather too large group of parties who say one before the elections and do the opposite afterwards. If the draft budget is adopted tomorrow, and it probably will, it will have very different consequences for different groups of Danes. For the upper class, which is about 3%. of the population, and which already has the highest revenues and the largest fortunes, 2016 will be a really good year. For ordinary Danes, there will be more insecurity and worse welfare. And for the Danes who are so unlucky to be affected by unemployment, to be affected by illness, or who have a disability, it will be a year of greater deprivation, with greater humiliation and with more worries. In other words, the Finance Act leaves Denmark as a more class-divided society, as a more insecure society and as a more cynical society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216143926	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216143928	Yes, there was almost no end to the horrors, but I could understand that it was a little positive that Enhedslisten is very interested in low-income groups. Then I look forward to inviting Enhedslisten to negotiations on a tax reform where we are precisely planning to reduce the tax on small incomes. It must be to the right of the Enhedslisten to vote for it. Now the Enhedslisten has been talking a great deal about the unemployment benefit reform over the last year... how unfair and unreasonable it is. There has been a great deal of anger here recently about the benefits of integration. It means a lot to Enhedslisten. That is why I really want to ask: if one imagined the hypothetical situation that all of the amendments now tabled by Enhedslisten to the Finance Act were adopted, would there be more money for cash benefits or for the benefit recipients yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144026	Let me start by answering the first question about tax reform. Well, we look forward to being invited to negotiations on tax reform if what the government really wants is to give tax relief to people with the lowest incomes. As far as I can see, it is just the employment allowance that will be made easier, and in this way people with the lowest incomes will be ignored. Folkepensioners get 0 DKK, early retirementists get 0 DKK, people affected by unemployment get 0 DKK. These are not the lowest incomes, I would say to the rapporteur. After all, they will be cheated again, as they were cheated in 2010, as they were cheated in 2008 and in all the other tax reforms that have been carried out by changing majorities. Every time they've been cheated. With regard to our amendments, I would say that we could have tabled many more. We have tabled a number of amendments to the proposal submitted. We believe that there is a need to invest more money in the benefit system, and we will work for that as soon as we have a new government, just as we believe that there is a need to do away with integration benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144120	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144121	It is quite legitimate to work for more money to be created in different areas, but the classic question is: where does that money come from? Then I know that the rapporteur will shortly point out that we can cancel all the tax concessions. However, I have sat and spoken together in the amendments tabled by Enhedslisten here in the Danish Parliament to the draft budget, and already there it is negative. In other words, more money has already been spent than can come from the sources of funding, even the totally hypothetical sources of funding identified. Even if they came in, you'd still owe it to them. So I just ask: if all the amendments that have been tabled had been implemented, how would it be financed to create more money for example? the cash benefits and allowances area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144201	Well, then, sir. Jacob Jensen did not read our proposal well enough. There is complete agreement between the amendments we have on the revenue side and those we have on the expenditure side. This is always the case when Enhedslisten makes suggestions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144211	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144213	Sir. Pelle Dragsted and Enhedslisten want to patent to do something about the imbalances in society. That's not the reality. Enhedslisten cares about a certain type of bias. The rest of us are concerned about other imbalances, including, for example: about the bias that lies in not getting enough to go to work. But there is also an imbalance in the ground blame, according to Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Let me tell you about a bias. Since the year 2000, taxation on the property value of condos has decreased, while taxation on the property value of single-family houses has increased. It is now so glaring that a house in Albertslund Municipality is taxed 64 per cent. Harder than an apartment of the same value in Albertslund Municipality. Sixty-four percent. more tax on the same property value, depending on whether it is a family house or a condo. Isn't that a bias that should be addressed? We should not make sure that those who live in houses do not pay 64 per cent. more in treasure than those who live in condominium, when house and condominium have the same value?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144318	I think there are major problems in our property tax system. We have also supported some of the measures that have been taken in connection with the change that is coming. I think that there is reason to look at some of the things that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions. What I am pointing to is just the concrete proposal we are discussing today, namely freezing the ground blame. I can only say that it is extremely wrong. With those who have the largest houses, the largest villas you can also see it in the municipalities... the majority of this less revenue is spent, while a lot of others will not experience the same. That bias is there. We would have liked to have seen this, and we have proposed this in the debate: a different kind of change in the basic debt, namely a social change for the benefit of those families who have low incomes and who find it difficult to keep up with the increase in this debt, because the basic debt is increasing faster than their incomes. I recognise that is a real problem, because we have families who are affected by the fact that we have such a low rate of real wage development, which is something that I know, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen is glad we have. We want to help to see that they could be allowed to freeze their basic debt payments, just as people's pensioners can today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144428	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144429	That too is wrong. It's not the ones with the biggest houses that make the most of it. Here's a new example. If we take a small row in Copenhagen for 1.5 million. kr., then the tax on it is 32,000 kr. a year. For 1.5 million kr. In Tønder you can get a new house of over 200 sq.m. where the tax is only DKr 13,000. a year. So there is clearly also a bias that Enhedslisten does not care about, namely the bias that people with small incomes in Copenhagen are taxed much, much harder on the value of their housing than people with larger incomes in the province are taxed on the value of their housing. So it has nothing to do with justice. That, sir. Pelle Dragsted is all about scratching money into the treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144511	That, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says is simply nonsense. We would very much like to see a change in the entire housing tax system. We think there are a lot of problems in it. We think that the most appropriate thing would be for one not to be taxed on an ongoing basis by one's home, as one does today. Instead, one should be taxed when the value is realized. We find it strange to say that it should pay to work, that people can sleep at a billion dollars just because the market makes their homes more expensive. We would like to see a significant change in the housing tax system so that ordinary families are not burdened by it in the way they do today, but so that in return they paid tax of the value just as they pay tax of going to work. It is strange that you are taxed harder by your work than by money that you have come to sleep, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144554	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144556	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the rapporteur. A number of amendments have been tabled by the Enhedslisten, and one of them says that some money is needed to finance some other wishes, some other priorities. This means that we will have 1.2 billion. kr. on the housing job scheme. That is quite a lot, given that 400 million have been set aside. kr. to the next year. Where's the last 800 million? kr. From? Is that a clever way to invest, or is it just another way to count in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144631	I'm not sure what exactly the answer is to this question. I believe that it has been based either on the loss, the costs associated with it this year or, alternatively, it is a cost that is before the calculation of reflows and behavior changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144651	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144652	When I ask, it is because the rapporteur made a relatively big deal of standing if not showing off then at least make himself important against the background that revenue and expenditure always vote with the Enhedslisten. So they just don't do that here, where you spend an amount three times greater than what is set out in the draft Finance Act. Is this the overall context of Enhedslisten's economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144716	It certainly isn't. Unfortunately, I do not have the amendments here, so I cannot give Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Once we have tabled a number of amendments, we have been able to look back on all other financial laws, and you will also be able to look back on the expenses that we are making. We think that is extremely important. We are not in favour of the deficits in government finances increasing. That's a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144742	I'll remind you that we don't use the puppet on the platform. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216144758	During the first reading of the government's draft Finance Act, I welcomed the basic elements of the draft Finance Act. I particularly welcomed the re-priority contribution, which the Prime Minister has chosen to call a development pressure on all parts of the public sector. I think that is an excellent expression, i.e. to put development pressure on all parts of the public sector. For the public sector too must feel an incentive to do things better and cheaper, and we do not really have any other and better tools here in the Folketing than to grant a little less money next year than we did last year. And that is what the re-prioritisation contribution is all about. I also welcome the fact that money was set aside for targeted business tax incentives, among others. the abolition of the NOx tax, which then became a very heavy reduction in the NOx tax, and also of measures in the area of generational change of family-owned companies. On the other hand, I also said at first reading that there was a lack of citizen-centred relief that would allow the ordinary citizen to feel a burden relief in everyday life. And here I mentioned three things in my rapporteur's speech at first reading. I mentioned that we should have stopped the skyrocketing of the land; I mentioned that cars in Denmark are too expensive because of world registration fees; and I mentioned that the public contribution to free and private schools is too small, so it becomes unnecessarily difficult to run free and private schools or to seek free and private schools. The welcome announcement here today at the third reading is that all three areas that I mentioned in my first reading have been met. It is now the case that we have frozen the ground debt at 2015 level, so that the injustices that have already arisen in property taxation in Denmark will at least not increase in 2016. We have had the top rate of registration tax reduced from 180%. For the first time, cars for ordinary families in Denmark are becoming cheaper. And we've got an increase in the connection rate for free and private schools from 71 to 73, so parents who send their children to a free or private school no longer only get 71 per cent. of the public cost of running a primary school but gets 73 per cent. None of these three points is the final big utopia for the Liberal Alliance. These are steps in the right direction. We do not just want to freeze the ground debt in 2016. We want to freeze it from now on. There is no reason for it to increase, and we would prefer to see a change of priority in real estate taxation in Denmark, so owners of single-family houses come down to the same level of taxation as owners of condos today. Nor do we want to tax cars by 150 per cent. in registration tax, but we have got it down from 180%, and this is the first step towards the complete abolition of registration tax, which is our objective. There is no registration fee in Germany, there is no registration fee in Sweden, and it is both well-functioning societies. It is, despite the fact that they do not have a registration fee. We got the connection rate up from 71 to 73 for free and private schools. That is not our ultimate objective either. We think it should preferably be 80%, because we think it is a fair percentage compared to what a public school place costs. These measures must be seen in the context of the fact that, contrary to the left, we take seriously the words that the widest shoulders should bear the heaviest burdens. This is something that the left is talking a lot about, but I do not think the left is doing much about it. We are in favour of people being taxed at a fixed rate, which means that the more they earn, the more they have to pay in tax. Our provisional goal is that there should be a 40% tax, and you have to pay that regardless of whether you make DKK 200,000 or DKK 1 million. or 2 million kr. a year. 40% This gives a considerably higher tax burden on people with high incomes than on people with low incomes. On top of that, we believe that the first 7,000 kroner's monthly salary should be entirely exempt from taxation. That is to say, we have a very strong element that the widest shoulders must bear the heaviest burdens. But these taxes that we've put down have nothing to do with income. It is not the case that people who need a car necessarily have a higher income than people who do not need a car. It is not the case that if you live inside Copenhagen K and have your daily work in Copenhagen K and therefore do not need a car, you will necessarily have a low income. You just don't need a car, and that's why you don't have to pay 180 percent. in tax on the car. And it is not the case that because you live in Jutland with 50 km to your workplace and need to buy an Opel Astra, or whatever it may be, you necessarily have a high income, and you can easily pay 180 per cent. in tax. It is a complete arbitrary taxation of people based on their lifestyle and based on the place in the country they happen to live. It has nothing to do with the widest shoulders. Nor is it the case that when you have a house in Copenhagen at 1.5 million. kr., then you have a much higher income than people with a house of 1.5 million. kr. in Tønder. But the tax on the house is 1.5 million. kr. in Copenhagen is four times as much as the tax on the house is 1.5 million. kr. in Tønder. Nor is it the widest shoulders that determine how much you pay in taxes. It's just a desire to tax houses really hard. We'll take a fight with that here. Finally, it is not the case that because you have a certain desire for a particular school for your children, you have more money to do well with than if you, like me, can settle for the local municipal school for your children. In Vanløse, where I live, many different parents live. Some send their children to community school. I and my wife have done that. Others send their children to private school. It is not the case that we who have children in municipal school have more money than those who send their children to private school. There's no connection between those things. Nor does it make sense, therefore, that those who send their children to private schools should pay so much extra to be allowed to choose a school solution that is not public simply because they are different from the other families who can settle for the municipal school. When you hear people on the left, you sometimes hear the more you come out on the left, the more you hear that social structures in Denmark favour a petty bourgeois way of life. Even further out on the left, in some classes of the left, it is said that there is a heteronormous favouritism of families and their way of life in Denmark. I can assure you that there is not in the tax system. Those who pay the highest taxes in Denmark are those who live the most occurring lives. So, the most common way of life in Denmark is the most heavily taxed. That's the thing about when you want a villa, a Volvo and a dog dog, you really pay a lot more in tax than if you don't want those things. We have now done something about the villa. We have done something about the Volvo, and at some point it can also be, although I cannot imagine the solution, that we can make it cheaper to have a dog. If that is possible, we will certainly be open to it. But it is just to say that the taxation of the ordinary way of life in Denmark has gone too far. There is an overtaxation of the ordinary way of life in Denmark, and we would like to do something about that. And we're gonna take a little bit of an asshole here in this finance deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216145720	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216145724	I'll start by reassuring Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen with the fact that the dog tax was abolished in 1970, an otherwise excellent year, and also the year I was born. We can then be delighted about that. I assume, and I assume, otherwise the rapporteur will have to correct me that the Liberal Alliance is relatively happy with the tax freeze that is included in the government's government base. That is why I would like to ask a few questions about the fact that the Finance Act and the Finance Act break the tax freeze. After all, the Prime Minister has openly acknowledged this last week. Is this a situation that has arisen as a result of pressure from the Liberal Alliance? Is it the Liberal Alliance that has wanted the government to break its tax freeze?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216145820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216145821	Now a tax freeze can be defined in several ways. Anders Fogh Rasmussen had some sort of tax freeze, and I think we still have the benefit of hearing what kind of tax freeze this government is practicing. However, it is clear that the increased taxation of the funds, which lies in the Finance Act, breaks with the tax freeze that Anders Fogh Rasmussen had. We in the Liberal Alliance actually like tax stops. On the other hand, we also like to do things that benefit the country, and sometimes they can break with the tax freeze. There may be, for example: be some who have some special tax privileges and who are particularly well treated by the tax system. If one then abolishes the advantage of those companies and uses the proceeds to lower general taxes, then we actually think it is a good thing. We would rather have lower general taxes than we would like special treatment for certain people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216145925	I think we can still say, Mr. President. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216145933	Thank you. The reason why I am asking about this is that the Prime Minister, in an interview with the Stock Exchange, or at least with the Stock Exchange, has indicated in an assembly where they have been present that the reason for breaking the tax freeze is that there are not very many mandates, that is that there are situations where other parties can press the government to break the tax freeze. That is why I would just like to know whether it is the Liberal Alliance that has brought in this proposal on the funds and further taxation. I am counting on the rapporteur to say no, but nevertheless. Just for the record, is that it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150018	No, it's not the Liberal Alliance that brought it in. I believe that what the Prime Minister's statement is all about is, and if you are in such a financial bill negotiation situation, you may need money to meet the wishes that are around the table, and then it may be necessary for the government to do things that it did not actually plan to do. I assume that is what the statement means.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150044	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150046	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I always enjoy these little ideological swordfights we have with the Liberal Alliance. This shows that politics still exists in Denmark, and that is wonderful. You might think that there's gonna be a little midsump in it, by the way. And congratulations on the Finance Act. In a way, I understand that champagne was toasted. I don't think you toasted other people's misfortune either, but because you got some improvements for some groups that you have chosen to improve the conditions for. So congratulations. I'd like to ask you something. This summer, and also later, the rapporteur's party chairman, who is also sitting down here, has come out with quite brittle statements that if you did not get a relief from the top tax rate, you would be prepared to overthrow the government. That was not achieved here in the context of the Finance Act, and I noted that Mr. Anders Samuelsen then said that no, no, but that it wasn't now, it was in the spring. So my question is really just: is that threat still in effect, that is, if a tax reform in the spring does not provide for a reduction in the top tax rate, will the Liberal Alliance pull the curtain away under the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150153	I shall not be able to say that, nor will I be able to say whether we can have the opportunity to do so. I think it should be noted that the Liberal Alliance is today a very helpful support party for the government and a very loyal support party for the government, and we are, among other things, because in the government base, which is the policy for which the government is working, we have introduced the government's work to reduce marginal taxation by five percentage points. And as long as that is the intention of the government, I believe that we will be a very loyal support party for the government. Should the government give up that ambition, then the conditions under which we have made the government into a government are no longer present, and then we will of course not know exactly how this will take place at least not be as loyal a support party as we have been in the past, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150238	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150240	That's a pretty fancy answer, I think. Well, it was said fairly clearly by Mr. Anders Samuelsen this summer, that this is what the government was doing. And, of course, you can change your attitude and congratulations on the fact that it has been written into the government base. I have seen the basis of government in the past, which has not been given the letter to the letter. Then the electorate of the Liberal Alliance can count on that when you look at Mr. Anders Samuelsen's blue eyes, are they just as firm when we get there in March and that means that if the top tax is not relieved, then the government will fall?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150323	The government base of previous governments, and the extent to which they have been implemented, has also been dependent on the support parties that governments had and to what extent they were willing to fight for the implementation of the government base. It may be that Mr. Pelle Dragsted to consider whether you could have done better in the last 4 years if you are from Enhedslisten. We are full of confidence that we can make sure that this is done, and we have no presumption of anything else but that the government itself wants it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150355	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150356	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, and above all congratulations on the financial agreement. I understand that the Liberal Alliance celebrated with champagne. Thank you, too, for the direct speech that the rapporteur has made today. I have two questions, and I am sure the rapporteur can deal with that. In his speech, the rapporteur said that the re-priority contribution was a sound principle, as it put a little pressure on because every year there was a little less money. So my first question is: is the re-prioritisation contribution in the Liberal Alliance's optics worth anything if you with one hand remove the money in a re-priority contribution and then with the other hand give it back to the municipalities, as some other parties say they will? The second issue is in relation to the tax reform. There you have been told that you have had so much in the Finance Act. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said. You've gotten so much in the Finance Act that you don't have to count on anything in relation to the tax reform in relation to top tax incentives. Is that your opinion in the Liberal Alliance, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150453	A re-prioritisation contribution that cuts off unnecessary bureaucracy and fat in the municipalities and then provides money for targeted welfare initiatives that you want to prioritise is also an improvement compared to the situation we have where money is wasted on things that are of no use. However, we want to use the proceeds of the re-priority contribution to alleviate the burden on citizens. That's what we went to the polls for. We actually went to the polls on a re-priority contribution. That was one question. The second question was that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl should have said that we have had enough in the financial law negotiations and that now we cannot also get top tax relief. I think he is the one I have heard say that Mr. Søren Espersen, who said so, and he is not the leader of his party. It's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, we should not assume that it must stand for Mr. Søren Espersen's own bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150545	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150546	I am sorry if I have done something wrong there, but then I can just ask the Liberal Alliance, in other words, whether the Liberal Alliance thinks it has had enough to live by not having top tax relief. In relation to the re-priority contribution: thank you for the clear answer, but I also understand that the Liberal Alliance wants there to be minus growth in public consumption in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150613	That's right. That is what we went to the polls for, because we want to lighten the burden on our citizens. After all, we want a tax burden in Denmark that goes from 48-49 per cent, perhaps even 50 per cent, and down to being at Swedish level, 43-44 per cent. That is what was in our 2025 plan, and that is what we still want. No, we certainly do not believe that we have had enough of the financial legislation negotiations to give up the desire for the top tax to be lifted by spring. We certainly still want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150642	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150645	Thank you. And I will vote with the choir because I understand that the rapporteur welcomes this financial agreement and that the Liberal Alliance let the champagne corks go, because you managed to get through an agreement that is historically skewed from where I come from and where it is the cash aid recipients who have to pay for the expensive cars being cheaper. That's where we disagree. I also understand from the rapporteur that you have just not reached the goal that you still have great dreams in terms of getting the tax even further down. So I do not entirely agree with your vision of the broadest shoulders, that is, how it is connected, but peace now be with it. But can the rapporteur today answer whether it is the Liberal Alliance's view that the proceeds from the housing benefits package should go to finance tax cuts in the spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150747	Oh, it has to go to improving public finances, and then it has to be up to the parties that are behind the Finance Act, what it has to do more specifically. I do not even think I can say that we in the Liberal Alliance have made our position clear, as regards whether the money coming from the housing allowance package should go to lighten taxes or whether they should be used to expand hospital capacity because there are more older and such things. Basically, it is true, as Mr. Jacob Jensen, the rapporteur of the Left, has said in the past: when you pour hot and cold water into a bathtub and mix it all, it is a little difficult to say when you pick up a cup of water, whether it comes from the hot or the cold. It's a mix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150831	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150833	It is an easy way of avoiding such a real answer to the question. The rapporteur himself says that we have to ask the parties that form part of the financial law agreement how that is to be put together. And that is also why we are asking today very openly and honestly: is it the view of the Liberal Alliance that that money should go to finance tax reliefs? The rapporteur will not reply to that, but will the rapporteur say clearly today that no guarantee has been given, that is, that it has not been agreed that the income from the housing benefits package cannot be passed on to tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150907	Well, I would certainly like to answer the question, but my answer was that I cannot actually say it right now because we have not talked about whether it should go to one or the other. So I'd like to answer, but I can't. A guarantee that the money is not going to lighten the taxes in society, I certainly will not give, because I can imagine some of the money could be used for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150930	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216150934	I understand that the rapporteur is very pleased with this Blue Finance Act, where 360 million are being spent. kr. for cheaper cars. 755 million will be spent. kr. for the freezing of land for the landowners. And then there'll be cuts in some places. Among other things, you can... I would also like to point out that research and development funds in the energy sector are being cut by half with this draft budget. The geothermal system under construction will be abolished. The large heat pumps in district heating systems are also being abolished. In general, there is a massive roll-back of the green measures, which have otherwise been an important part of previous financial laws and which help create 75 billion. kr. in export. I would like to hear from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur whether it is climate dissidents in the Liberal Alliance who are responsible for making this priority for energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151034	No, it is not the Liberal Alliance that has specifically demanded the savings that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen talking about. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151044	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151047	In his speech, the rapporteur spoke on the grounds of guilt, that is to say, that the injustices will not increase in 2016. I have some difficulty recognizing that picture, because what is real is that the homeowners have the prospect that their ground debt will not increase by 755 million. kr., while the two million people living in a rented residence have the prospect that the land debt will rise by 225 million. kr. in 2016 before re-entry. It was also said that the widest shoulders should bear the heaviest burdens. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the two million people living in rented accommodation having the prospect of a higher ground debt in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151135	After all, the major problem with the explosion of the root cause is in one-family housing. I think I also illustrated that in the question I had earlier on to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, i.e. that condos have fallen in taxation per year. property value, while one-family houses have increased in taxation per year. property value. The same applies to rental homes for which the tenants then pay the rent. There has been a distortion of the taxation of housing in Denmark in recent years, which has meant that people coming to a family house will pay a lot more, and that is what we are doing something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151214	Then it's mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151217	Now I am new to this House, and I look forward to asking a question here as well. There's something I don't understand. The rapporteur is talking about a tax burden of 48 or 49 per cent, but how is that reflected? How is that calculated?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151235	It is the OECD, which is an organization with 34 Member States, which is more or less similar to each other, which publishes an annual report on taxation in the countries concerned. Here you add all taxes, including compulsory labour market contributions and the like, and then you say that it is x million, and then you share it with the country's GDP and get a percentage that you call a tax burden. As far as Denmark is concerned, we have just reached 51 per cent. of GDP, but it is for 2014, and this is due to some exceptional measures. Maybe we're at about 47-48 percent. of GDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151311	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151313	This then gives me the opportunity to follow up on the issue, because in the December 2015 Economic Statement there is another figure, and I am just wondering about that difference. It says that for 2016 we are moving towards a tax burden of 44.8%. Where does that difference occur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151332	I do not think so, and I cannot imagine it, but it may be that I am mistaken that we are going to come down to a tax burden of 44.8% if it is a tax burden as a percentage of GDP. It could be another type of calculation, namely, tax burden as a percentage of GNP or as a percentage of something else. I can't imagine that we're going all the way down to 44.8%.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151357	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151401	Thank you. Allow me to begin by expressing a certain sadness about the way in which the rapporteur refers to primary school when he talks about his having to settle for that, I do not think that is the way to talk about primary school. Enough about that. Could the rapporteur not reveal anything? Since it is not the Liberal Alliance, is it the Conservative or the Danish People's Party that has had a desire to change the taxation of the funds that has meant that the tax freeze that we have talked about has now died?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151434	I don't remember telling you I had to settle for primary school for my kids. If I have said so, I certainly did not mean it in the way Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen says. I think that the primary school is often excellent, especially when you have the good teachers, because there is also a difference between teachers. In any case, the primary school is local, and it is also important for many that you want your children to go to school in the local area, and it is important for me and my family. Then the question was where did the fund tax come from? It was a game during the negotiations, but it didn't come from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151514	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151517	Thank you. I think it was an appropriate and very fine correction that we heard from the rapporteur here about primary school, and I was pleased about that. I specifically asked where the desire to change the fund tax came from. Will the rapporteur not answer whether it came from the Conservative, the Danish People's Party or perhaps from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151536	Yeah, I can do that. I have some doubts about what is and should be said and how much can be said from the negotiations, but I think I can say that at some point in the negotiations, when it looked as if there was a lack of money for everyone to have their wishes met, the government played out with a proposal that some money could be found in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151556	Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151559	I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on the forthcoming purchase of new fighter aircraft. It's probably going to be in the new defense agreement first, I'm thinking that that money is going to be spent. But everything else equal is a pool of money, which I think is difficult to find in the existing financial legal basis. But I've been told they're set aside. And without having to talk about pears and bananas, I wonder whether the rapporteur could try to tell us whether there are challenges from the point of view of the Liberal Alliance that, in a future rather early period, we must go out and have such a large investment of 30 billion. kr. plus. Is it the right priority to buy fighter planes for such a large amount of money?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151647	Frankly, I do not know much about this, and it is not in the 2016 Finance Act that 30 billion have been allocated. kr. for the purpose. It has not been necessary for me to get to grips with this in the course of these budget negotiations, so I cannot give a proper answer to Mr Seligman's question. René Gade's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151705	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151707	I think that is quite reasonable. It was more a question of an opinion that it has been said that the money has been set aside, and that is why they should actually be found in what we are sitting with now. I've just noticed that only a few billion dollars of each year have been set aside for this maintenance. It is possible that we are not getting closer, but on the other hand I would just like to ask the view that we have this forthcoming procurement, which everything else needs to affect a future financial law. And we have been told that the money has already been set aside. Can the rapporteur follow me in my question about where that money is? I haven't been able to see them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151743	I have not properly dealt with the question, but I assume that they are like an expected future pool to buy them; they are somewhere, possibly as part of a defence settlement. But I'm not very good at answering questions, I must admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151803	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151805	When the Liberal Alliance is now helping to conclude a financial agreement, supporting a financial law that reduces investment in climate, environment and nature across a broad front, is it because you believe that the climate challenges that are in the world have diminished?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151827	No, but we may think that some of the tools used in the past have been mistaken. Take something like Denmark's wind turbine plans, where you have built a lot of wind farms, which cost a lot of money, which is financed by the PRS tax, which is charged to the electricity that ordinary consumers pay for, and which delays electrification of Danish society. In fact, electricity generation is an excellent way of producing energy for consumers. It is certainly better than having your own local power plant in the form of an oil pine or the like. It is also good to drive in cars that drive on electricity. There is greater energy efficiency in it. But we have taxed electricity with a very high tax in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151927	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151929	Okay, but when the rapporteur thinks that some of the initiatives we have taken for the time being are wrong or not sufficient, what ideas do you have, in that you are a entrepreneurial and entrepreneurial party, to reduce the problems that are in relation to climate and the environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216151945	Well we certainly have an idea that will work much better than setting up a lot of wind turbines with subsidies from the state, because it doesn't actually reduce CO2 but our idea doesn't have the support of other parties in the Folketing than ourselves, so it doesn't happen. But one could get a real CO2 2 that would be incredibly cheap and that would actually lead to a reduction in CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152018	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152021	Thank you very much. Now it can be said that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur scrubbed a little at the beginning and said: what we have got was exactly what I said in my speech at first reading. And that was enough because the rapporteur had a clue at that time about what the Liberal Alliance could and could not get. It is not exactly a reform finance law that has been made here. It is such a little bit of tax relief here and there, and that is why I just have to ask: would the Liberal Alliance not have used all the various tax reliefs to properly alleviate income tax, for example. The top treasure? It would have created growth, it would have created job opportunities, it would really have battled something instead of the climbing work that the Liberal Alliance had to do with the Danish People's Party and the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152110	First of all, when I spoke at the first reading of the draft budget, I had no idea what we could get through with. I knew what our priorities were, and we have then got through that, but I really had no idea that we could get through with it. The whole party was nervous about what we could get and what we could not have and what the negotiating climate would be like. But we wanted it there, so we brought it to the negotiating table, and that's why we got it. Would it have been better to spend the money on top tax relief? Well, the relief of registration tax is, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard knows, more efficient in terms of creating increased labour supply than facilitating top tax. We are in favour of a top tax reduction, also because of the supply of labour, but if you only look at what should provide the most labour, you should further reduce the registration fee. Any money that could be set aside for tax relief at work should be used, from the point of view of labour supply, to lower vehicle registration tax instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152215	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152216	Is it the case that the rapporteur did not know what was going to happen? When I ask, it is of course because the Danish People's Party had banned top tax incentives, so the Liberal Alliance could not expect to have them. I will try to ask in another way: if the Liberal Alliance rapporteur had, shall we say half a billion or a whole billion that he could do with, exactly what he wanted, would he then like to lighten the top tax, or would he prefer to lighten the registration tax? If he could make his own choice, where would he rather spend the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152248	I think I'd flip for it. It is difficult, after all, when you have a lot of political considerations and a lot of political priorities and you think that everyone is right, really important, to say whether one is more important or the other. It's actually really hard for me to answer that question, so heads and tails would be a good answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152311	Sir. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152315	Thank you. I hope that the Finance Act has not been settled by the fact that it has been played with a tail and a crown, but we can at least say that if that is what has happened, then the Danish People's Party has obviously lost every time you play. I think that is a bit of a sin, and it may also be statistically unlikely, but leave it at that. I would like to return to this whole debate on housing benefits. What is rather strange about this is that one has agreed that housing benefits should be cut to the poorest, mainly pensioners and disabled people, but at the same time this financial agreement has been agreed that property taxes should also be made easier for the wealthiest homeowners. Does the Liberal Alliance not think that there is something strange about the poorest people basically going to finance the tax cuts? It has been the Conservatives in particular who fought for it and all honour and respect for the Conservatives. But does the rapporteur not think that this is the crux of the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152415	First with the Danish People's Party, and who has gotten the most in the financial negotiations: I know that the left has the theory and it also seems that if you just talk a lot about the Danish People's Party having got nothing at all in the negotiations, then the press will probably write it. And congratulations, you've had luck with that. The press writes exactly what you say about the Danish People's Party having got nothing at all. But I don't agree. The Danish People's Party has had a lot in the financial law negotiations. The Danish People's Party has got what is approximately the size of the party, and so have we, and that is why we are all happy. But the press, of course, writes something else. About the ground debt and the poorest: Listen to me, in my neighborhood there's an elderly lady who just put her house for sale because she can't pay the ground debt. She can't pay the debt, and that's why she put her house up for sale. This is the same house I have mentioned so many times before, because it only costs 1.5 million. kr. and is located in Copenhagen. Now it is reduced to 1.3 million. DKK 32,000, but the total property taxes are DKK 32.000. a year, and for that reason she has put the house up for sale. Because she can't live there anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152525	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152528	This is the reason why you wanted to cut the housing allowance. But let us just hold onto the housing service for a moment, because the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also believes that last night an agreement has been reached which also obliges the Danish People's Party to find this funding of small 2 billion. kr. over the coming years, for example: To cover the hole that now arises because you shot it out last night? Is that also the view of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152559	Yes, that is also the view of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152601	This is the alternative to Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152606	That is in relation to lowering the tax on cars. There was a very interesting article in Altingen this morning which says that if you are going to go the way of lowering the tax on cars, then you really have to increase the tax on fossil energies, that is on car fuel. Is this a road that the Liberal Alliance could take part in?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152629	It's wrong that you have to do it. The Environmental Economic Council has calculated the overall negative externalities and costs for society by driving cars around Denmark to approx. 17 billion. kr. The taxes on petrol and diesel alone amount to approx. 18 billion kr. In other words, the taxes on petrol and diesel finance not only the negative environmental impacts of cars but also the accidents that occur and the wear and tear on the roads and congestion. So there are plenty of taxes on petrol and diesel in Denmark according to the Environmental Economic Council. We can easily remove all sorts of other taxes on cars without the motorists having to pay less than what they are burdening society with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152717	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152720	Thank you for your answer. But now it was more the green transition I asked about. Compared to the point of finding out how we are increasing the pressure to use renewable energy, it could be a way of increasing fuel taxes and diesel taxes. At least that's what this professor of the article in Altingen is proposing. But I understand that this is not a way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152747	I agree with the Environmental Economic Council, which believes that we should tax cars according to the negative footprint they put on the world and the costs associated with having cars. It is a tax, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. electricity produced using solar cells or wind turbines or coal, at the time when it is the best for society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152821	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152823	Thank you very much. One of the things that the Liberal Alliance has, after all, been given in this Finance Act is a lowering of registration fees on expensive cars in particular, and we know that this will lead to an increase in CO2 emissions. Now I assume that precisely this rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance recognises that climate change is a real phenomenon and that this is something we must do something about. So I would like to hear the rapporteur: what does the Liberal Alliance think we have to do in the longer term to reduce the CO2 of the transport sector? We have to reduce it, but it has gone the wrong way for many years. CO 2 higher than in 1990. In other words, it has gone the wrong way. And then we're gonna contribute to it with this financial law passed by the bourgeois parties. What are we gonna do here? We need to set CO2 What does the Liberal Alliance think about that challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216152925	Unlike what the author says, I am not the only one in the Liberal Alliance who recognises that climate change is taking place. Everyone in the Liberal Alliance does. I believe that virtually all people in Denmark recognise that climate change is taking place. Well, one can just look at the historical measurements and see that climate change takes place and has done so for centuries and millennia; they have taken place for millions of years. So they take place. What we need to do to reduce CO2 We need to invent alternative sources of energy and alternative modes of transport that have less CO2 That is to say, for example. should welcome the fact that solar cells are becoming cheaper and cheaper so that they can produce electricity, and also welcome the fact that batteries are becoming cheaper and cheaper so that we can put them in our cars and drive on power.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153025	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153028	Thank you for your answer. But does the rapporteur not agree with me that if we are going to reduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153055	Most adults and mature people can live with the fact that there are different considerations that must be taken into account in the world and that some considerations conflict with other considerations. We in the Liberal Alliance can make the balance, that it's okay that we get a tiny bit more CO2 2 That balance we can make.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153126	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153130	Thank you. In addition to the discussion and dramas surrounding the Finance Act, one of the things we have discussed a great deal in recent months is indeed asylum restrictions in relation to the refugee situation we see in Europe. After all, there have been various reasons for wanting to introduce these austerity measures, and one of the reasons for this has been the economy. That is why I would like to hear from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur as a member of a civil-liberal party, which normally values freedoms and legal certainty very much, about what the rapporteur specifically thinks about the proposal that was proposed a very short time ago that, in principle, you do not have to be put before a judge when you are detained in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153232	Well, I am in favour of that, because I voted in favour of it in this Chamber, and I voted in favour of it because I am in favour of it. After all, this is not a similar situation to that of incarceration. When you are in custody in Denmark, you must be brought before a judge within 24 hours, but in advance we have rules that allow you to be held for 72 hours as an asylum seeker in Denmark. So we clearly look at the two situations differently, and so does the SF, because SF also thinks it's okay to wait 72 hours. Now a new legislation has been adopted which says that if there is an extraordinary situation and asylum seekers are rushing into Denmark, you can be detained for more than 72 hours, and I think that is all right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153322	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153324	Just to specify it, it's about whether you're a national of Denmark or not, in relation to whether you have the right to appear before a judge within 24 hours. After all, you are not necessarily defined as an asylum seeker in advance. I would like to ask about something that I do not think the Liberal Alliance rapporteur gave me a clear answer to. What lies in this law is that in principle there can be infinite time before you are put before a judge. That is what the whole debate is about. What does a liberal person, the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153408	It is not only Danish citizens who have the right to appear before a judge within 24 hours, it is all who stay in the country and are taken by the police and are to be held in custody for a judge within 24 hours. So it's a universal principle there. Real people live in a real world where you have to deal with what happens and if it comes in with 10,000 asylum seekers in a week, what should you do about it? You cannot deal with their cases as quickly, in other words within 72 hours, as the old rule allows; you have to have room to do so over a longer period of time, and that is what you have changed the legislation into.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153448	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216153507	When I look at the government's draft Finance Bill, I look more at a finance bill from the past than a finance bill for the future. That is at least how I interpret it when, with surgical precision, we cut all the long-term investments in research, education, development aid, culture, climate and green conversion and instead spend the money from it making petrol cars cheaper, freezing the ground blame and wanting to give tax relief to the richest. In addition, I think that the draft budget leaves more questions than it answers. There are several examples that it is difficult to see a connection between what the government has previously said outside the walls of Christiansborg, and what the government today says within the walls of Christiansborg. For example: It is not long since the government signed the UN Sustainable Goals. This is, of course, very, very good, because it obliges Denmark and the other countries to work to stop all forms of poverty by 2030. But how on earth does that aim relate to the government's intention now to lower development aid from 0.85%. of GNP at 0.71% of GNP per year? These are serious cuts which affect the poor in Africa, among others. bilateral aid falls from 2.5 billion. kr. in 2015 to 551 million; kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). And how does the ambition to reduce inequality and poverty relate to the fact that the government at home cuts in cash aid and in social benefits for refugees? In short, how is it that the government says it will work to reduce poverty when it soon tries to implement a financial law that increases rather than limits inequality? Another example is the relationship between the Finance Act and the historic climate agreement which has just been concluded between 196 countries in Paris. I would like to make it quite clear that, in the alternative, we are extremely pleased with the Paris Agreement, which means that for the first time the whole world is united on a common climate agenda. I understand that we share both with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Climate. But what I cannot understand is how the government can stand in Paris one day and commit itself to raising the green ambitions a few days later to stand in Copenhagen and present a draft budget that increases Denmark's CO2 x The answer is surely that the content of the two things is not connected. But shouldn't they? Nor is there any connection between the fact that the government excuses the large number of refugee deteriorations and savings in development aid with the fact that the municipalities are under pressure at least not when the government chooses at the same time to finance large parts of the Finance Act by cutting municipal budgets. We are clearly in favour of the 86 per cent concern. by the municipalities, who say that the cuts in the Finance Act will reduce the level of service in municipal offers, because until 2019 the municipalities will lose 7 billion. kr. But this is primarily because of the cuts that the government itself has chosen to make in order to find funding for the Finance Act. For the alternative, however, the biggest problem with this financial law is that we do not really address the major challenges that we, as a society and as a planet, face now and in the long term. This may, of course, be due to the fact that we look at these challenges differently, and that is why I actually want to ask the government, represented today by the Finance Minister, what the Finance Act really is an answer to. What are the thoughts behind the Finance Act, what is the vision, where is what you want to go, what society do you dream of, and how do you intend to contribute to solving the climate crisis, the inequality crisis and the refugee crisis? You don't solve those crises by lowering CO2 so what's your answer? I hope that the government will already answer those questions today, just as I hope that it will provide some major vision for the society of the future. In this context, as an inspiration, I would like to spend some time describing what the vision of the alternative is. Our vision is about creating a sustainable society, a sustainable society in which we accept that we cannot use unlimited resources because we live on a planet with limited resources, but where we also recognise that growth and prosperity should not be created at the expense of people and the environment. Our vision, therefore, is also that we are completely prepared for another social model, where we are working not only on an economic bottom line, but also on a social and environmental bottom line, and where there should be positive figures on all three bottom lines. The idea of the triple bottom line and the dream of sustainable society is the framework for the amendments proposed today by the Alternative. In fact, I would like to elaborate on those amendments based on the threefold bottom line, and I would like to do so for two reasons: on the one hand, the current draft budget is very far from what the alternative is a good financial law; on the other hand, it may serve as a different input in the debate, so that we can have a more nuanced discussion on how to create a good society. If I am to start with the economic bottom line, it is important for the alternative that growth and prosperity do not happen at the expense of people and the environment, but it is also important for the economic sustainability of society that we have the courage to think longer than just one government period forward or one year forward when we conclude political agreements and adopt financial laws. We must dare to invest in long-term initiatives, and we must dare to invest in green business, in innovation and in education, even if we may not reap the benefits for many years. If this were to be the alternative, then, first of all, we would roll back the savings in education and research and, secondly, we would increase investment in sustainable jobs in renewable energy, green entrepreneurship and ecology. In relation to the social bottom line, it is important for us that the state's money is invested where it is most beneficial. It is both about having a strong social safety net, but also about promoting equality and equal opportunities at home and abroad. In this context, I would like to roll back the savings on development aid and, in addition, raise it to 1%. of GNP. If we do this, we will send a signal that we take the UN's sustainability targets seriously, just as it will give a boost to the world's poorest, because development aid is the money that makes the biggest human difference per person. crown. Social sustainability is about more than development aid. It is also about ensuring coherence, equal opportunities and equal access to culture, whether you live in Ringkøbing, Rønne or Rudby. In addition to rolling back savings in the field of culture and cash aid, we will therefore strengthen the balance on the social bottom line by introducing traffic equality in Denmark so that it becomes more attractive to live and work outside the major growth centres and cities. There is no doubt that the environmental bottom line is the most important for the alternative. It's primarily because it's going to have a significant impact on the other bottom lines when it's negative. For the same reason, in our amendments we have proposed to roll back the announced savings in the green area. However, this does not stop here, as we believe that Denmark should increase investment in, for example. renewable energy, electric cars and heat pumps to speed up the green transition. We must do this both to help the world and the climate, but also to help our economy, as the jobs of the future must be created in the green sector. Last but not least, we also need to look at our natural efforts for the sake of biodiversity. For example, for a start, we propose: to allocate EUR 50 million; kr. to ensure more natural forest as early as 2016. Now you may think that I am standing up here proposing changes that are not funded, but I do not, in fact, because, as our amendments show, our proposal is indeed financed crown by crown, exactly as the Minister of Finance likes it. For the sake of good order, I can summarize that among other things. is about introducing a tax on financial transactions, so that we have a more stable tax system and 26 billion. kr. In addition, for the next four years, we will gradually increase property value taxes so that we create a more stable labour market and that we will retain NOx taxes because it must be expensive to pollute and emit nitrogen oxides. Now I have tried to put some words on the alternative's thoughts on the present draft budget, and I have also tried to explain how we would like to use the money. I have done so in order to put forward an alternative to the present draft budget which lies a long way from what we would like in the alternative. For us, it is particularly untenable that massive savings should be made on climate and environment, education and research, as well as development aid and social services. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my point that we do not see any overall vision for the government and the courage to address the huge challenges of society, which are not least about climate change and the consequent need to accelerate the green transition, which is going to affect both the economic, social and environmental bottom line. With the government's financial bill, we are in the process of borrowing from the future, and that is why we are recommending that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154447	It's at the moment. Four with short remarks • It may be that there will be more but at least we will start with them. It's first, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154456	Thank you very much. One of the things that I have the greatest respect for in the alternative as a party is the slightly different process or approach to political treatment. That is why it is not a joke when I ask this quite frankly: has the alternative still been good for voting on the so-called green housing job scheme, which has now turned out to be no green contribution at all, no jobs, but which has cost a dangerous amount of money, which could have been spent on development aid or other climate initiatives or many of the things that we agree with the alternative that the money could be used for? When I ask that, of course, it's because one thing is that you can make a mistake. It's completely fair, we all do. But another thing is that it's a little bad if you keep making it, that is, if we also have to expect you to keep committing it in 2017 and 2018 and 2019. To us, unfortunately, it's money out the window.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154556	To reply briefly and clearly: yes, we are still happy that we have voted on the green housing job scheme. It is the case that it will be green here from 2016 • so the part you can get in the form of a craft allowance will be used for green improvements. And it is quite true that it has been calculated that it does not provide very many jobs, but it has not been the intention of the alternative to go along with this agreement. What has been the alternative's intention to go along with the agreement is that we want to ensure that the housing improvements that are being made are climate- and environmentally correct. That's why we've been involved in making this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154634	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154635	But the figures from e.g. The Ministry of Climate and Energy has also shown that CO 2 2 And that is why it ends up being, you might say, a grant to the wealthiest homeowners in Denmark instead of perhaps becoming an effective grant for green conversion. I wonder if the money could be spent more efficiently if it is green conversion that you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154714	Now Martin Lidegaard himself knows that I hope the rapporteur will acknowledge that these are very, very uncertain calculations. However, having said that, I hope that the rapporteur can agree that if you make an improvement in your house, which is energy-efficient, instead of making an improvement in your house, which does not then I would agree with the rapporteur that, at the time when the alternative has 90 mandates, I can promise the rapporteur to spend the money much more efficiently. But we have helped a blue government in a green direction and we are happy with the housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154755	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154756	Well, I'm gonna sign for the speech, too. I think that even though you may disagree on many things, it is always positive to come up with some fresh visions. But, you know, everyday life hits at some point. That is why the rapporteur also mentioned, among other things: the very general source of funding of this 6.5 billion. kr. initially, which will be taken from the establishment of a tax on financial transactions. It could be enticing if there were 6.5 billion. kr. around the corner and if, moreover, it would not have any particular impact on the investment climate or anything else. The alternative rapporteur can then try to clarify whether there are no concerns or concerns or any negative consequences of finding 6.5 billion. kr. on financial transactions? And why did you just land at 6.5 billion? kr., if it doesn't have any consequence, then I guess you could have taken 10 billion. kr., and then there was a little more to work with?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154857	Well, the reason why we are proposing to make a tax on financial transactions is, among other things, why we are proposing to make a tax on financial transactions. to create stability in the financial market. It's one of the ways you can do it. What is also the advantage of this is that those who are going to pay the most are primarily those behind the fast investments, and they are the ones who are helping to create instability. That's why we actually think it's a good idea to make this tax on financial transactions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154924	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216154927	What does fast investment mean? Is this the case in time, or are they the ones who so speculate short-sightedly, or how can this be understood? Well, I'm just a little worried about it. Because I heard the rapporteur say " and I am glad that the money has to take care of it." Then you can discuss it. I have taken the trouble to bring together what is found by sources of funding and what is then spent on different purposes. And according to my calculations, that's about. 3 billion kr. you owe in the alternative. But that includes finding this 6.5 billion. kr. That is why I am asking: can we now be sure that it is just 6.5 billion? kr., and that it has no negative consequences in the form of a lack of investment or otherwise, e.g. that things had to run around Denmark? If you haven't, why have you just stopped at 6.5 billion? kr.? Couldn't you have made that number something bigger?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155013	Well, it's actually because we're following the European Commission's 2012 estimate, which says that if we follow it and they're proposing 0.1%. taxation of share and bond trades and 0,01 per cent; in the taxation of derivative contracts, it will amount to 6.5 billion. kr. So it's from where we've got it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155030	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155034	The alternative welcomes the fact that the Alternative has helped to allocate money to a new green housing job scheme. I want to hear from Mrs Josephine Fock whether the alternative is actually curious about how we found the money for it in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155051	We have an agreement that they were set aside in the Finance Act. I have no knowledge of how they are allocated, but if the rapporteur wants to tell me, that is fine. I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155103	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155104	After all, we found the money through some of the savings that the alternative doesn't like. So congratulations on spending the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155114	Yes, and as I think the rapporteur himself said up here, you have to see it all in context. That is a big picture, and that is why I am, of course, pleased that it costs only 400 million. kr. a year and not the budgeted 800 million. kr. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155126	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155129	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur talking about three bottom lines, among others. the economic bottom line. I also heard the rapporteur ask the government: what is your answer? I would like to hear the alternative's response to the choice of presenting a draft budget with a deficit of 3 billion. kr. Is that financial responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155157	In our optics there are no deficits. I think I have explained where the money, among other things. must come from. Now it is important to speak positively up here from the platform, but there is something unanswered in the proposed draft budget in relation to the housing allowance that has just been withdrawn. So I guess we all have our challenges of finding an exact crown for crown funding, but in our opinion our financial bill is financed crown for crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155236	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155238	I do not think there should be any doubt that the draft budget we have presented is precisely financed crown-to- kroner. And a crown is a crown and can only be used once. However, I do not hear the rapporteur's view that the alternative's financial bill is underfunded by 3 billion. kr. Is that financial responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155257	But there it is just that I have to answer the rapporteur that in our optics it is financed crown to crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155303	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155306	Thank you very much. One of the things I was really happy about when I first read the Alternative's programme was that the alternative is so much concerned with supporting green entrepreneurs and especially companies that are interested in converting to circular economy, because this is something that we in the Enhedslisten have been working for for very, very many years. This is something we have worked for under the previous government, so there, among other things. with the budget proposals in which we took part, funds were allocated to green entrepreneurs, green entrepreneurs' houses, a green conversion fund to help businesses convert to closed resource circuits, and a whole lot of other things that were intended to strengthen the whole green direction. These are things that have now been closed down and closed down after the new government has arrived. The green fire-soul pool, which should support the commitment and mobilisation of the people throughout the green transition, is also closed, all of which is closed. You could get very, very far if you spent the 400 million instead. kr., which has been set aside for the housing job scheme, to support all these good initiatives. That is why we have tabled an amendment. So I just want to hear the alternative's position on that amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155416	Well, the alternative backs that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155420	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155422	I'm very pleased to hear that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155426	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155428	I'll say thank you, too. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155444	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I have to say that, from the point of view of the Radical Left, this Finance Act is one of the biggest mess we have seen in many years. That is because the framework is wrong, the content is wrong and because the process is wrong. We cannot stand by the framework because the entire budget law is completely blown away for reform. There is not a major constructive approach that shows that we have a blue government that could give us more opportunities, more financial resources to invest in the future, create jobs and give us the economic space to move Denmark into the future. On the contrary, the two legislative proposals that we will be adopting tomorrow, namely L 2 and L 3, have decided to make a completely unconscious change of priority contribution, as they call it, where you drive a green harvester across the municipalities and collect the money, so that you can sit and play Santa Claus in the Struensee Room in the Ministry of Finance together with your support parties. It is unbelievable, it is pointless, and it is certainly not something that we are going to contribute to in the years of estimates when we do not even have an agreement with the municipalities to do so. In 2016, you don't have it in 2017, 2018 and 2019. It is therefore also, we believe, that violence on municipal self-government is being done. We cannot believe that the Danish People's Party will vote for it. So much for the framework. Time and again we have heard the Minister of Finance and others say that the reason why the savings have been made in the field of development aid, research, education, education, etc. is that we have to understand why we have taken over a bank account. Now, in the last Economic Statement, we have been told that this was notoriously wrong. There is not one of the savings made by the government that can be justified by narrow necks or by the fact that a poor economy was taken over. Every penny this government has saved on our next generation in terms of cutting education, the number of educators, the green transition, development aid to prevent conflicts and flows of refugees, etc., has chosen to spend on something else: something hopeless, pointing back instead of pointing forward. For what has the money been used for? They have been used on a number of flat-rate tax reductions. Some tax reductions have been made compared to NO x kr. For the elderly, we do not know exactly how that money is to be spent. It is not something that brings Denmark forward. This is not something that invests in our future. On the contrary, it is something that risks passing unpaid bills on to the next generation of Danes, because it is not doing anything to ensure long-term economic responsibility, environmental sustainability or social sustainability. One of the things you do is cut. also in the integration service to the new Danes, the refugees who are coming, making it much harder to integrate them and make them useful in Danish society. All in all, it is a Finance Act that looks back instead of looking forward. It is a mess because it is also a strange patchwork that shows that you have so many different support parties, you have to take into account that there is not really any overall picture. That brings me to the process of this financial law, which has also been, it has to be said, a real mess. Those who heard our question this morning can testify that we are now in a situation where, because the government has not managed its parliamentary majority and has not managed its agreements, the country's pensioners must now first get a housing allowance, which then has to be re-regulated, because they have started to administer according to a law that could not be adopted after all. It's not an impressive character, you can give no framework, no content, no process in this Finance Act. The only thing that can be called for is that the political parties holding hands under this small government may at least consider making demands that the next financial laws that we must have, if they are to take place under the current leadership, become a little more forward-looking and have a slightly larger wingbeat, so that our children and grandchildren and the next generation of Danes can see themselves in these financial proposals, instead of everything pointing back.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155931	It's at the moment. Two brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216155936	I have to promise that the radical rapporteur has put the no-hat on today, but that is something we must try to save ourselves from. I am quite sure that the radical rapporteur agrees with me that the money should fit. There must be funding for what you do. It's usually a good radical policy. That is why, as I have done with a few of the other parties, I also take note of the amendments tabled by the Radical Left to this piece of financial legislation. When I run down over them like that and add the figures together in relation to the effects, I can see that there are a number of amendments in which savings on development aid will be rolled back and savings on research, education and all sorts of other areas. How are we going to finance it? Yes, it will be financed by abolishing the housing job scheme, and then I think I could find a place where there is something about what is called an efficiency contribution in the field of police. All in all, there are spending demands in the region of 6 billion. kr., and then you'll finance it with what I can figure out is about 600 million. kr. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160041	I appreciate that question. This is so that we have also tabled amendments to the government's Finance Act, which means that we will, of course, have an overall result that goes up to zero. I can guarantee this to the rapporteur, and that is because we are also rolling back a lot of the tax reductions that the government wants to introduce, and because we are taking advantage of that space of 2.7 billion. kr., which the government has used to climb away on gifts to various groups. We use this purposefully, and we can actually afford to do so within the same financial space, and we recognize that there must be. In fact, as I said, we are able not only to roll back all the government's savings, and that is from foreign aid to the environment to education and integration services, but we are also able to make a number of of offensive proposals in the same areas, among others. more money for educators, climate and environment. It is simply because we do not squander the money on tax reliefs. If you take the amendments to both the government's original proposal and to the new amendments that have come after the conclusion of the financial law agreement, you will see that the money fits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160147	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160148	They say you're gonna get rid of the money. I do not see how money can be squandered if taxes are relaxed, but there can of course be different views on that. Now the rapporteur is concerned about educators, and it is in the municipalities that people have that sort of thing. Could the rapporteur just draw attention to how the rapporteur sees the municipalities' economy for the financial year we are discussing here, in other words 2016, in terms of whether to invest in citizen-centred welfare? With the financial bill, is there more money for the municipalities as a whole, or is there less money for the municipalities as a whole?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160222	Well, an agreement has been reached with the municipalities this summer, and we have said, together with a number of other parties, that when an agreement has been reached with the municipalities, we support the overall municipal budgets and the framework agreed. Then you have made a change of priority contribution and you have sent some of the money back to the municipalities, but then in this Parliament you have decided that they should go to, for example. older. So now the municipalities cannot choose to spend that money, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. Because, of course, there is room for greater efficiency in the municipalities, but why do we and the Minister for Finance have to sit and distribute that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160306	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160307	Thank you. See, I heard the rapporteur call the government's draft budget unsightly, and I also heard the rapporteur ask for a little more foresight. I think that was the choice of words that the rapporteur had. In fact, I have always had great respect for the financial responsibility which, after all, I think the Radical Left has been a representative of in the past, and if the rapporteur is now asking for a little foresight, perhaps I would like to ask the rapporteur to take a little responsibility. For what is the reason why the Radical Left chooses to produce a draft budget which is underfunded by 5 billion? kr.? Does the rapporteur think that it is to take on the responsibility of managing the Danish economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160402	I can hear that some spin doctors have sat in the offices of the Left and prepared these questions, but I am afraid they have not done their job well enough. Because if the rapporteur goes back and looks at our amendments, both those we have tabled on the original draft budget and those we have tabled on the agreements that have been reached since then, she will see that the money is of course right. They always do when the Radical Left deals with a bill of finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160427	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160427-2	Now I do not know what the rapporteur or the Radical Left is using, but it is quite clear to us that the draft budget put forward is underfunded by 5 billion. kr. Does the rapporteur consider this to be responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160446	This is notoriously wrong and so it is because the various amendments we have tabled have not been properly looked at, but only at the last part of them. So it's hard to relate to. We have rolled back part of the tax relief. We are not in favour of putting the money away at lower registration fees or lower NO x Alone it costs a total of 1 billion. kr. Then there's 2.7 billion. kr. in room for manoeuvre, which we have used in a different way from the one the government has chosen, and I could, in a way, continue, but it may just be easier if the Left reads the lesson instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160518	Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160520	I have a great deal of respect for the economic responsibility of the Radicals, and economic policy is actually quite sensible in the case of the Radicals. But what kind of question brings me to the Radical rapporteur is this halo over my head with regard to the elderly billion. Well, it hasn't grown in our garden, but in connection with the fact that we had a SRVSF government, some money was set aside, for example. targeted educators. A certain amount of money was set aside for educators, and they were to be used for educators in the municipalities, so I would just like to ask: what is the difference between the elderly billion and the pedagogic billion?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160602-2	That was 250 million. kr., but leave it alone. I think there's a very big difference. I think that for most of the elderly, I know that are both wealthy and less wealthy, what is really most important to them is that their children and grandchildren take over a good Denmark. And there is the very big difference, that by focusing on our children, our education and our research we provide a basis for those who come after us, whereas if you are aiming to distribute an older billion completely unfocused, without being focused on the weakest elderly, then I do not really see what you get from it in relation to Denmark's future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160646	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160646-2	We are in agreement with all of this. We want to invest in education, we want to invest in research, but that is the principle I am asking. In principle, is there a difference between targeting pedagogy money and targeting older people's money? Now that you havecelebrate over the elderly billions, which we can discuss back and forth, I have to ask what the difference is between the principle of having some educational money targeted at some municipalities and the principle of making a targeted contribution to the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160713	The difference is that, unlike us, the new government made a general re-prioritisation contribution of 1%. for all municipalities. In other words, the municipalities are being forced to drive a green harvester across the municipal budgets, and the money that this brings will be collected by the Ministry of Finance. And then you sit and distribute them with, among other things. Mr. Brian Mikkelsen. We didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160738	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radical Left. That's how it is, sir. Jonas Dahl as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216160746	Thank you. The government's draft Finance Bill was deeply irresponsible because the government did nothing to solve a number of Denmark's urgent problems, on the contrary, in that there were cuts in education, research and climate. It has not, in fact, been improved by the financial agreement we are holding today. It even denies that it was the economy that forced the government to cut back. For space has been found to spend billions of dollars on totally unnecessary tax relief and tax relief. In this way, the government proves that its much talk of cashiers and necessary priorities was just talk. The SF has chosen to table a limited number of amendments which, if adopted, will point forward towards solving Denmark's problems and at the same time contribute to solving the global challenges we face in the areas of climate, poverty and refugees. However, not everything is being corrected, and even if we were to remove all the absurdities of the draft budget as it stands, a very, very long list is still needed. It can be mentioned separately that the SF would like to see more investment in research, not least in free research and in green conversion and in technology. We have not tabled any amendments to this effect, as we have sought to mitigate the harmful effects of government cuts on research by agreeing to an agreement on the allocation of the research reserve. But it's not good, I'd say. The SF's amendments are financially responsible. In immediate effect, the proposals provide for an improvement in the state's finances of just over 2 billion. kr., if you count on backflows and behavior based on the Ministry of Finance's own principles. The proposals are also neutral on government finances, but the accounting principles of the Ministry of Finance are problematic in several ways, since the Ministry of Finance is not counting on positive and derived effects of investment in education, day care and health and safety etc. The Ministry of Finance is also not counting on how expensive it will be for Denmark to meet our international climate commitments, and it is in itself expensive that the government does not dare to count. Conversely, the proposal turns the heavy end down, and we need to raise Denmark's climate ambitions to a considerable extent. In addition, if we really wanted to address the climate challenges, we would at the same time do something good about employment, something which, as such, also forms the basis of SF's amendments to the Finance Act, namely that we would like to contribute to strengthening not only the green effort, but also that which creates employment in the green part of the sector. In addition, we also believe that we would raise Denmark as a whole if we employed more people in day care institutions, schools and the education sector in general, because we need to invest in knowledge; we need to invest in research and education; because that is the raw material we will be living on in the future too, not least when we look at the challenges of falling oil prices and a lack of revenue from the North Sea. This, of course, raises legitimate concerns about where the money should come from, and there is only one answer: it is knowledge, it is education, it is the young people who are getting their schooling today. It is therefore paradoxical, however, that a bourgeois-led government is so spending resources on tax relief on luxury cars, tax reductions on the richest homeowners and, above all, trying to step on pensioners, as has been done, in relation to the debate that has been going on over the benefit of pensioners in recent days. That is why it is also paradoxical that those who are going to stand up for are the weakest in society. It is the students, it is the young people, it is the ones that we should make a living on in the future. That is why I am amazed at the agreement we are having today. However, there is also reason to dwell a little on the discussions of the last few days. Because if you go back to the opening debate here in Parliament, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Chairman of the Danish People's Party, here on the platform, where I stand today, and called among other things. the savings made by the government on housing benefits for thistles. It was a number of thistles that had to be removed, but when it came to the financial law negotiations, the Danish People's Party must have forgotten what was actually going on in the negotiations, for at least an agreement was reached whereby one could see so much that the housing benefits for pensioners were being maintained. In relation to the coming years, nearly 2 billion were to be collected. kr. In the case of pensioners and disabled persons. It then developed last night that we had new amendments in the Committee on Finance and urgent consultation with the Minister for Finance, because now suddenly it had been decided to temporarily postpone the savings in question. This morning we were able to hear from the Danish People's Party's Financial Rapporteur that pensioners should also be freed in the future, what all other rapporteurs from the bourgeois wing have disowned here today. So it has to be said, to put it mildly, that, in relation to what kind of financial agreement we are dealing with today, and not least the funding that you really want to brag about in the bourgeois camp, it is somewhat disoriented and confused. I think it is paradoxical that this was the case the day before we had to deal with the Finance Act of the Danish Parliament and the Kingdom. And there was a situation in which the Minister of Finance had to draw part of the funding into the Finance Act. The Danish People's Party is basically out to pull the carpet away under the agreement you have made yourself, and thus also out to ensure that you have a financial law that has a quite considerable deficit when you look at the coming years. Because it's not just 90 million. kr. for 2016, what has been tried to preach here today. In subsequent years we are talking about an increase of three-digit millions, which means that over the coming years we will be missing up to 2 billion. kr., because it has now been temporarily postponed. But that has been made very clear today by among others. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur and also the rapporteur of the Left, that the money must be found by cutting the poorest pensioners. I think that is interesting in itself when we look at how the money has been spent at the same time. They're the ones who buy the luxury cars that need a piece of the money. Now it has to be $300,000. cheaper to buy a large Porsche. At the same time, it can be seen that the wealthiest homeowners, those who live in the areas where you have actually secured quite considerable gains by just owning your own home, must now be relieved in the tax again. Who's in charge? Well, the pensioners do, the students do, the weakest in our society. Against this backdrop, I think it is also necessary to say that the financial law that we are dealing with today is somewhat dismal. Quite frankly, I am rather sorry that there is not a single member from the Danish People's Party here in Parliament, because I think it is amazing that there are 22 members of parliament who are not only members of the Danish Parliament but also members of various municipal councils in the country and who are also going to be involved in implementing a re-priority contribution which costs a great deal in schools, day care institutions and the elderly. It must be said, however, that it is thought-provoking that there is not even a single member from the Danish People's Party present in the Parliamentary Chamber when we are dealing with the Finance Act. Frankly, I find it a little embarrassing that the second-largest party in the country cannot show the respect that at least those debates are being held. I think the Danish People's Party has a problem of explanation of the larger ones, and that is perhaps the reason why it seems to me today that it is almost a contempt for the Danish Parliament that it simply gets away from the debates. However, I have nothing further to add, just that the SF, with the funding that has been provided and the priority given by the government, will neither vote for nor against the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161512	There are, in the first place, two brief comments, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161518	According to Mr. Jonas Dahl, we cannot have a lower registration fee in Denmark without compromising our efforts to train young people; that is what Mr. Jonas Dahl's speech. I'd like to know if Mr. Kim is here. Jonas Dahl is aware that when we compare ourselves with the OECD countries, i.e. the 34 Member States that are there, Denmark is down to a 23rd place in terms of how much of a youth year gets a higher education level. So a 23rd place out of 34 and that all 22 countries that are above us have lower car fees than Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161601	But there is virtually no country with no lower excise duties than Denmark. We must also conclude that if we want to reduce excise duties, the money must come from somewhere, and I think it is paradoxical that part of the funding that is being provided is savings on education and research. In order to keep to what the Liberal Alliance is asking: do we in the Liberal Alliance believe that there are more people going to take a youth education so that we can move from 23rd in the ranking in the OECD compared to how many people are taking a youth education, by saving youth education, by dismissing teachers in the country's secondary schools and technical schools, and by saving significantly on education and research in the country's universities? I do not believe that a higher level of education will be achieved by cutting down on education. If you believe it in the Liberal Alliance and you believe that it is the larger car that then ensures a higher level of education, then it may well be that it is a completely different calculator that you are in with the Liberal Alliance. But it's certainly not the one we use in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161653	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161654	In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that all public services must be under pressure of efficiency so that they deliver better and cheaper for the money paid by taxpayers. It was also a principle advocated by the SF to some extent when the SF was in government, since it was a member of a government that had an ambition to save 12 billion. kr. by efficiency improvements. It has then become a little higher in the meantime, but efficiency was at that time an excellent principle. I am just saying this because, when you say that, because we lighten the tax on cars, we do not get worse education in Denmark, that is not how it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161737	I think we can make things better. But the difference is, of course, whether we are starting from the fact that, if we want to do things better, we continue to invest the money we hope to save, to raise the level of education even more, or whether we choose to say that that money would rather be spent on tax reductions on luxury cars and on the wealthiest homeowners, and what we are doing here means practical redundancies out in the country's high schools. That's the difference between the Liberal Alliance and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161812	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161814	Thank you very much. SF has chosen to make an agreement with the government for a housing job scheme which costs 400 million. kr. or a little more, and it is a system that has proved to be very, very skewed socially, which primarily benefits the well-off in society and which has a very, very small climate effect. Now I understand that you have made an agreement and that it can be difficult to run away from it. I fully understand that, but if it turns out that these figures are true and that it is actually so crooked and it has such a small climate effect, then SF will be ready for, for example. Next year, to go to the government and try to reprioritize these funds for something that is stronger in terms of climate and that is more socially fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161900	We will always be following developments, and if we can do things better, then we must do it all the time. But the reason why we entered into an agreement on a housing job scheme is that we think it is a good thing that the Danes get subsidies to renovate their homes. We are also pleased that we have ensured that the tenants will have better opportunities to renovate their homes, because the energy consumption that is in the homes is, in fact, also part of what contributes to the climate challenges facing them. That is why we believe that every effort should be made to improve the climate in the houses, whether they are tenants or owners, and we are glad that we have got the government involved. We would have liked to have seen it even more green and had even more perspective, but we actually think it is a good arrangement that also ensures that the wheels are set in motion, also in the outskirtsdanmark, where it is sometimes a little difficult to get the money to strike in relation to changing the windows. So I choose to welcome the fact that with the agreement we have made in relation to the housing job scheme, we are helping to draw Denmark a small step in a greener direction, and I am so surprised that Enhedslisten does not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216161959	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162000	After all, we fully agree that we must try to refurbished housing and to reduce CO2 but there is no doubt that these 400 million. kr. could be used much wiser in relation to the climate and that they could be used in a way that was much fairer so that it did not primarily go to the well-off in society. So my question is this: if the figures now available under this scheme prove to be accurate, is the SF prepared to try to negotiate it, so that we get a greener and wiser arrangement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162042	In fact, we think that we have made a good deal which, unlike the previous housing job scheme, which was concluded under the previous government, now guarantees a green housing job scheme which is precisely focused on getting things done about the transition that there are a number of challenges with out in the Danish homes. And I am delighted that we are precisely ensuring that we have a stronger incentive for people to have both the roof and the hole wall renovated and reinsulated, but also to change the windows. I think that actually means something to a lot of families, and it's not the wealthy ones. After all, there are also limits to how many times you can replace the windows. I think that has happened to a large extent in Hellerup, but I think it means something to a great many people, who do not necessarily live in a place where there have been high rent increases, so that you will actually have the opportunity to renovate the house with a grant, and I am delighted about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162126	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162129	I'm just gonna have to ask Mr. Knox. Jonas Dahl repeats something from his rapporteur's speech, which I am not quite sure I caught correctly, and I can do that very briefly: was it understood correctly that the SF has tabled amendments to the Financial Law Agreement alone, in order to mitigate the worst elements from the point of view of the SF, or have amendments been tabled to all the things that it seems to be a mistake? I'm sorry I wasn't sure when I heard that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162159	After all, we have chosen to give priority to a number of amendments which we think are the best, so that we can correct some imbalances that this financial law contains. That is why we have raised the questions which we consider to be of a fundamental nature. But it is clear that if it had been SF alone that had made a financial law agreement, then it had looked fundamentally different. I think it is also a principle that has been applied in the Left in the past that a number of amendments have been tabled to weed out some of the, yes, most stupid things that the government in question has come up with, and then you try to make the best suggestions you have yourself. I think that is the general practice that all opposition parties have been using for many years too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162238	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162240	I'd have heard it right, and I just think it's a little too bad. Because that means that the SF has only found funding for some of the things for which this agreement has been criticised, and I think that this is just something thin politically. In other words, one simply reserves the right to say: all right, we are criticizing the fact that, on the other hand, there are only some of the things we want to do something about. And I think that's kind of a shame. Sir. Jonas Dahl is very happy to look at the financial legislative proposals we presented and how we voted when we were in opposition. For what we thought had to be done, we made sure that there was funding for it. But now I understand that the SF will reserve the right to criticise everything, and then amendments will be made to some of it. And then there is a lack of funding for all the things you haven't brought.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162324	We think it is stupid to cut as much of the research as the government is proposing. This does not alter the fact that we, together with all the other parties in the Folketing, have made an agreement on the research reserve, but I think it is completely crazy that so many resources have been chosen to cut education and research. We would have liked to have corrected that, but we have reached an agreement and, of course, we stand by it. That is the reason for this and that is what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that we are not tabling amendments on this point, that is to say, because we have reached an agreement in this area. That is the way things are in politics. Sometimes some agreements are made to mitigate something that others make up and that is completely out in the fence, to try to straighten out the things that others do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162405	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216162416	It's not a secret. We don't want to hide the fact that the Conservative People's Party is very happy with this year's Finance Act. This was a good course and we would like to thank the Minister for Finance for a good coordination and a good result. The Conservative People's Party went to the negotiations with three main demands: firstly, that the basic guilt should be frozen so that the Danes no longer had to be taxed from house and home; secondly, that the police should be strengthened and armed better in relation to the threat of international terrorism; and thirdly, that we would have an increase in humanitarian aid to the neighbourhoods. All three requirements we have got through, and it paints a picture of a financial law in balance that draws Denmark in a safer and freer direction. I am proud that we have now finally stopped the skyrocketing of housing taxes, secured a freeze on the land and thus secured a real tax freeze for the country's homeowners. In 2016, no homeowners have to pay more in debt than they did in 2015 in exactly DKK and øre. All in all, the basic debt is relieved by 2.5 billion. kr. over the next four years. So when the Hansen family sits out in the garden while the kids are out there playing soccer, they don't have to have a stomach upset about whether they can stay in their house with the family, for now there is peace of mind about the ground debt, about the housing taxes in the coming year. This means that Lis, who lives in Brønshøj, will be less expensive in property tax next year. Today she lives with her son in a modest house of 64 m2 with a plot of 625 m2. She bought the house for 1.9 million. kr. In 2011, and this year alone, she has paid, hold on tight, a ground debt of DKK 33.884. And if it hadn't been for the Finance Act that we've been making right now, the bill would have risen to over 35,000 kroner. Next year. So I am very old-fashioned happy to be able to say to Lis and the hundreds of thousands of other Danish homeowners who are suffering from the increasing ground debt that the flight of housing taxes has finally stopped. At the same time, with the Finance Act, we have ensured a better future Danish police. Even though it was sometimes a lonely fight, we nevertheless came to the end with a result that we can be proud of. We have ensured that the police have a significant resource boost, which means that we have strengthened the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime; we have strengthened efforts to combat burglary and ensure more security for the Danes; and at the same time we have ensured that 1,100 new police officers will be admitted to the police school over the next two years. This means that we are getting closer to a police force that actually has an opportunity to be at eye level with ordinary Danes and, above all, to be constantly in the hassle of the criminal underworld. The terrorist threat to Denmark and the whole Western world has accelerated. It is present; every day there are people who plan attacks on Western interests, including against Danish interests. And that is why I am also pleased that 24-hour situation and operation centres are being set up and that PET is being given much more resources for both intelligence and personal protection. Finally, I am pleased that with the 2016 Finance Act, we have ensured a boost in humanitarian aid to the neighbourhoods, so that in particular the refugees in the camps around Syria are given more support in an otherwise hopeless situation. Refugees or internally displaced persons are on average 17 years old in the camps. This means that more than just banal immediate emergency aid is needed, such as emergency aid. water, sanitation and shelter. Refugees and displaced persons need to be able to get future prospects closer to life when they are in the camps, and therefore it is important that, in addition to emergency aid, there are also resources to ensure those activities that have a longer perspective. It is education, it is economic activity and then, of course, having a family life. We have basically had to give priority to aid, so that more are offered opportunities closer to their homes, and with the 2016 Finance Act we have reached a first step. One area we may have neglected to talk about in connection with the Finance Act is Denmark's business community, which makes everything else possible, which finances our welfare society, which finances the fantastic country in which we live. And so I would like to add a few words to the Danish business community, which will certainly have a hand in helping, but on which we will need to focus considerably more attention in the coming years. With the 2016 Finance Act, we get among other things. rolled the NOx tax back from exorbitant 25 DKK. per kg to 5 kroner. per kg. We are extending the tonnage scheme to mobile drilling rigs so that there can continue to be maritime jobs in Denmark, so that the blue sector of which we are so proud and which secures billions of kroner in export earnings and thousands of jobs can still develop in Denmark. And then, above all, we remove a tax that has never existed. Yes, it sounds a bit incredible, but the advertising fee, which has so far lived a shadow life in the financial plans of the previous government, is now finally laid to the grave. We also managed to ensure that the registration fee is now reduced from 180%. to 150 per cent, so that cars become cheaper for ordinary Danes, and this gives more mobility and more welfare in society. Last but not least, with the Finance Act, we have provided better conditions for the generational change of businesses. In 2016 alone, 200 million will be allocated. kr. to reduce the residence and gift tax. That amount will be increased until 2018, so that we will receive funding for a further reduction in the housing and gift tax in connection with the generational change of family-owned businesses. The tax will be reduced to 5%. This means that the 35,000 family-owned companies that are facing a generational change and employing a few hundred thousand employees are now given better opportunities to invest in productivity, in production in Denmark, and that they should not consider being sold for example. a fund or abroad or shut down completely. That is why we have the whole foundation of the business community, which is so crucial for the development of Denmark. We have an SME structure in Denmark that is unique. We do not have the big industrial locomotives, and that is why the housing and gift tax is so essential for us to keep that structure and the companies in Denmark. We have also had 360 million set aside. kr. to business funds, so that we get some more of them set up almost nobody since the former SR government in 1998 made an intervention against the area and that means that we now hopefully have some more business funds that can also invest and develop in Denmark through crises. Let me express respect, including for the previous government, for the fact that money has been set aside in this area. We have found them, the real money, and they are then set aside in the years ahead. So it's a fact that Danish business with this financial law gets a much needed respite, but unfortunately it's just as inevitable a fact that we as a nation are still poorer than before the crisis started in September 2008. Our main competitors, Sweden, Germany, UK, have all moved forward with growth rates pointing into the future, while Denmark is still such a place between first and second gear. That is why I look forward to the coming years when a serious growth policy is to be pursued; where a policy is to be pursued that focuses on how we create jobs and production in Denmark to finance welfare in Denmark; • a growth policy that ensures that the wheels spin and the hands stand ready. It shouldn't be that hard. There is a wealth of good reform proposals, a wealth of good wishes for how we can facilitate business conditions so that they invest in productivity and production in Denmark. And we will give this a high priority in the coming years, including in future financial laws and future agreements, which we hope will be concluded with the government. It must pay better to work, we must eliminate administrative trouble, we must ease corporate taxes and taxes, and, above all, we must support collective as well as private investment in the jobs of the future. And that work will begin now, when tomorrow, hopefully, we will also adopt the Finance Act for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163348	Thank you. There are requests for a number of brief comments. The first in line is sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163353	I'm just gonna grab Mr. Knox. Brian Mikkelsen a helping hand, for Mr. I believe Brian Mikkelsen came to promise a specific citizen in Brønshøj a tax relief next year. But that is not the case, that is, the citizen will not pay less in housing tax next year. At most, you can pay the same price, and here I am just thinking of Mr. Brian Mikkelsen's past as Minister of Culture, where it went a little fresh with also promising certain athletes some tax exemptions. Having said that, I would like to ask a question: how does Conservatives basically feel about the fact that the Financial Law Agreement, as the Prime Minister said in the Stock Exchange, means that the tax freeze defined in the government base has been broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163440	First of all, I would like to say that I see it as a real tax relief that the tax is frozen in dollars and cents, because there is inflation and wage developments alongside, so that you really pay less of your income and your wealth in property taxes over the years ahead. It gets reset on crowns and ears. We did so with the property value tax from 2002 onwards, which means that the property value tax takes up a small part of the taxes for Mr. and Mrs Denmark, which is equivalent to a tax relief for the Danish family. Moreover, I have never been able to understand that the Social Democracy, which I also have great respect for historically, is no longer fighting for families, is no longer fighting for people to stay in their homes. But that is something that must be discussed in the Social Democratic Party itself. With regard to the tax freeze, I would like to say that we are too tax clogged. I think it is a good instrument which helps to discipline all public authorities and all public expenditure drivers to ensure that the money is not found by raising taxes somewhere. That is why we are in favour of a real tax freeze. And then we have greater ambitions than the tax freeze, because we believe there is a need to lighten taxes in many different places in the system in order to get a stronger Denmark. But we are in favour of a real tax freeze.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163551	Well, it's nice that you're for something that doesn't exist anymore, because you can only have a tax stop until it's broken. There are some fantastic quotes about this almost frivolous character that come from a former prime minister in Denmark. I will not go into that here, because you know Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, all of them. But the tax stop is broken, and you can only do that once. Because the whole point is that when you know there is a tax freeze, you expect there to be no changes in it. It does, however, even in the field of the fund. How's it going, sir? Brian Mikkelsen himself, and does he have it with him?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163630	I am in favour of a tax freeze, and if we had the power that we have watched together with those parties who also want a real tax freeze then there would have been more ambition in the tax area. So if it is the case that there is no real tax freeze in the future, then it is a pity for Denmark. I don't think so politically-tactically or who can tease who. It is a pity for the Danes, because then the floodgates will open, and it will only be possible that every time you have to finance a wish, it is quite free of charge, because then you just set up a tax or a tax. There has been a tax freeze on the disciplined effect, so you have to think really well because you have to go out and find the money somewhere else if you want to do something good in one place. And it is very healthy, both in households and in a national budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163714	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163716	The Conservatives have it in common with us Radicals that they are very aware that we are getting a Denmark passed on to the next generation, which is at least as good as the Denmark we got from our ancestors. That is why I must not hide the fact that when we saw the government's first draft Finance Act, where environmental efforts, development aid and everything that would be investment in the future were completely slaughtered, we were incredibly pleased with the Conservatives' announcement that we would be the guarantor of development aid, that we would be the guarantor of a continuing high level of ambition in climate and environmental matters. Then I shall not fail to say that it is not because I am not under Mr Seligman's authority. Brian Mikkelsen the pleasure of having a small victory home on the ground. But as far as everything else is concerned, the Conservatives have received nothing. You just let it all go on with the government's barge into an uncertain future. Can we be sure that the Conservatives will follow up on this? Now another round comes in January, you can understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163818-2	I would very much like to read my speech again. That is where I mentioned all the victories we have had in the Financial Law Agreement. There were many, it was a whole palette of different victories. But it is true that in the area of the environment and climate, we would have liked to have achieved something more. We also want to do so, for example. In the research discussions, have had some co-play from other parties, for example. to transfer some money to the EUDP programmes and all these programmes. Unfortunately, we did not, but we would have liked to have fought that battle. We also tried during the budget negotiations. I do not think that the policy adopted in this area is ambitious enough. We are in complete agreement on this. We were quite alone among the blue parties in that fight, and we must respect the fact that such is one's lot in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163903	I take this as an undertaking that the Conservatives will continue to fight and that they will have the opportunity to do so, apparently also in January. I saw that sir... Brian Mikkelsen's colleague, sir. Naser Khader, was out saying that the Conservatives, on the other hand, would at least vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, which ensures that the savings made on development aid this year, which are not covered by the 2016 financial regulation, will be less bloody than was proposed by the government, because that money is not being spent on anything either. The Conservatives will help to ensure that, and I would just like confirmation from Mr Conservatives. Brian Mikkelsen's side is voting for that resolution on Monday.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163942	What we have said is that we are voting blankly on the motion for a resolution. The reason why we cannot vote for it is that it is unconcrete, what that money is to be spent on and where it is to be taken from. However, we agree that it was unreasonable to suddenly cut down on development aid in 2015. That is why we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216163959	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164002	Conservatives, both before and after the elections, have had a lot of focus on this with pensioners who, as a result of the increase in the ground debt, risked being squeezed out of their homes. I have great sympathy for that. We ourselves have been concerned to see whether solutions could be found to this question. But there's just something I don't understand. Because if it had been for the Conservative People's Party, this financial law would have brought about a sharp deterioration in the housing allowance for pensioners, not pensioners living in owner-occupied dwellings, but pensioners, for example. live in nursing homes or rentals. So it's fine that Lotte Hansen, or whoever it was, doesn't have to wear a knot in her stomach when she sees the kids playing with the football in the garden. I think that's really good. That is also why we ourselves have been prepared to find a solution to the problem of the debt. But is it okay that Gerda Hansen, who sits in a foster home, or her relatives, should now go with a knot in her stomach and wait for the cuts to be made in the spring? Where is the concern of pensioners who do not live in owner-occupied housing but live in rental or nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164113	First, a receipt of the Enhedslisten's setting in the area of basic debt. I also had the opportunity to discuss it several times with Mr. Frank Aaen when he was a member of the Folketing. One would think that there would be a very big difference between the Conservative People's Party and the Enhedslist in that area, but I recognise that one looks beyond ideology. It is really a praise for seeing that there really is a real problem here, and I also think it is politically good that you have that attitude. As far as housing benefits are concerned: I think it should also be a challenge for the Enhedslisten that when you can see that there is a public expense that just runs out of hand and we do not have a money tree out in the garden, and we have to finance our welfare society, then you have to see whether the regulation that is then of the housing benefits should be higher than other public services. And that's what we, among other things. has done so by making a different form of regulation. Now the proposal has been removed from the table and has to be discussed again in the spring, but what was proposed was to change the regulation so that it fled with the price development that was in society so that one could still pay one's rent. I still think that is fair, and I think that all parties in the Folketing should be prepared to do so, so we spent our public money wisely, and people could stay in their apartments, too, and also as elderly people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164225	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164226	For the individual national pensionist it does not matter what is the reason why the person in question gets less money in his pocket. In other words, I could be prepared for us to make the same regulation on the housing allowance if the money was then passed on to the public pension, so peace be with it. However, the situation with the proposal that you have made regardless of what you wrap it into is that very many folk pensioners, including virtually everyone with low incomes, will be affected because elderly people who receive housing benefits have virtually low incomes. And that's what I don't understand, by the way, thank you for the receipt. So, the difference is that you're so worried about the pensioners who live in the owner's residence, while those who live in a rental or nursing home aren't so afraid to worry about it. I don't understand what this is like.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164308	Well, we're not worried, we just want justice. And we think that the reason for many people is an injustice. It's a tax they pay. Housing allowance is a subsidy you get. And that's where we'd like to give that subsidy so you can stay in your apartment. However, we will not give any incentive to the municipalities simply to keep raising their rents and putting everything into it, so that the rents are just allowed to rise and the Treasury pays it. We do not think that is fair. Of course, elderly people must be allowed to live in reasonable homes, and they must also receive housing benefits. But I just don't want it to explode.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164337	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164339	Thank you. Refugee aid in Denmark must ensure that refugees have a tolerable stay while they are here. They must be able to survive. Humanitarian aid must help in the neighbourhood and prevent refugees from fleeing to this place. That is how I have understood it, and it is being reduced internationally. Foreign aid must ensure that people develop where they are, so that they do not think about fleeing or going to war with each other at all. To the rapporteur, sir. Brian Mikkelsen: If you take development aid and give to refugees in Denmark, what happens in the world? What happens in the refugee camps when they don't get the money they need? What happens in developing countries if they are not developed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164435	I have the basic view that development aid works in most of the countries to which we give it. By the way, it has become much better, much more targeted, and its recipients, both the countries and the organisations and NGOs that receive it, have become better at receiving it and using it more constructively. We often put development money in a hole 20, 25, 30 years ago. Today they are used much better and have net real plus value. However, in the situation of the Western world, with the great migration and people fleeing, one has to look at how to use the resources available. And it is the case that, compared to the way in which virtually all countries are settling their foreign aid, they can use it to deal with refugee situations and asylum reception in their own country. Denmark is doing the same, and I think that is sensible, given that all countries are doing the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164535	If you take 5 billion. kr. from development aid and spend them on refugees in Denmark, then everything else will just come more refugees to Europe. If we do not ensure that refugees have proper conditions in Jordan and in Lebanon, then everything else will just come more refugees to Europe. That means creating a refugee problem if we do not take care to support all three places. I guess we all agree on that. That is why it is a mystery that Conservatives have not held onto their 0.8% in these budget negotiations, which could, however, be a significant improvement. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164617	Our approach, as I mentioned in my speech here, was that we wanted more help in the neighbourhoods, and this is what we have been given with this financial agreement. We would have liked to have had 0.8%, we did not succeed, that is politics, and that is democracy. I am now proud of the agreement that has been reached, which I think is a very good agreement. And if it was the case that more money would be spent on development aid, then they would have to be taken from somewhere, and we can see from the examples that have been there how problematic it has been to take it from the housing benefits. So this is not an easy exercise, and that is why the financial law we have now made together, the four blue parties, is quite an excellent expression of sound economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164653	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164657	Thank you. The Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen says he's very old-fashioned happy about this financial agreement. And when you look a little down over the agreement with conservative glasses, you can see that there really are gains for the richest. They can get cheaper in taxes, and they can buy themselves a bigger car and things like that; they're conservative virtues. But I think that the many pensioners and disabled people are being affected by these cuts in housing benefits. True, you have tried to change it a little in a panic, but now it's just uncertainty they're hit by, and no one really knows how it ends. Is it also a situation that makes the Conservative rapporteur very old-fashioned happy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164741	It makes me very old-fashioned happy that the Nielsen family in Slotsparken in Holbæk, where the father works in Copenhagen and the mother works in Slagelse, now has the opportunity to buy a reasonable middle-class car so that they can transport themselves to and from work and make sure that the children are taken to sports and school etc. It provides welfare, and it provides security for the family. It also makes me very old-fashioned happy that an ordinary family in, for example. Aalborg now experiences that there are better opportunities to get production in Aalborg because we have put NO x It also makes me very old-fashioned happy that an ordinary family in the Copenhagen area gets security and calm in the stomach by ensuring that housing taxes do not explode so that you can stay in your home. All these things are for ordinary families who have ordinary incomes and who are similar to ordinary people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164842	I don't think it makes much difference that a family car becomes a few thousand dollars cheaper. But those for whom it makes a huge difference are these 325,000 people who now have the prospect of getting a smaller check through the door. Then it may be that it is set off afterwards and all sorts of other things, but there is a huge uncertainty out there. Elders The case has indicated that a huge group of older people are being held on the torment bench in this situation. Does that really make the Conservative rapporteur happy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164916	When we talk about housing benefits, I think we should be careful not to stigmatise all folk pensioners in Denmark and all elderly people in Denmark, as if it were a weak group. It's a group of very different people. Both my parents are old-age pensioners. They are happy and satisfied and active every day, and they are quite well off without being well off, but they are ordinary Danes. There is just the situation that those whom we have to help in our welfare societies are, of course, those who need help. There we must be careful not to make generalising arrangements that just rise and rise all the time. Conservatives therefore welcomed the agreement that the government put forward and on which we had an agreement, in other words, where a little less regulation was made in the housing service, so that it corresponded to the price level and not the wage level.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164955	The next question is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216164956	Thank you very much. The rapporteur is pleased that more help has been sought in the neighbourhood. So now there are 8 million refugees in the neighbourhood, and 50 million have been allocated. kr. more in support for the neighbourhood areas, i.e. $1 apiece. refugee for 1 year. After all, one dollar a day is expected to be spent to survive, so the rapporteur considers it particularly commendable that one dollar in one year should now be given to the refugees in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165031	I think it is commendable, and I also think it is OK that we are still one of the countries in the world that provides the most aid for developing countries. Even after the savings that have been made here, we may well have reason to have a halo over our heads. And in the best of all worlds, we gave more in foreign aid. That is clearly the conservative view, and we will continue to fight for that in future years' financial laws. However, we must now be careful not to shoot ourselves in both the back and the foot, because we are one of the countries in the world that provides the most aid to developing countries. I think we have good reason to be proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165110	When you regulate the money we draw from foreign aid, which goes to the accommodation of refugees here in Denmark, we are down to 0.5%. If this is regulated in all the other countries, are we still one of the best countries? The other countries do not quite receive as many refugees as Denmark. Has that regulation been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165130	I have to say that I have simply not seen these figures and I do not know them. However, my own small calculation would then say that the Swedes, who use exactly the same method as the Danes, who have been flooded and overwhelmed by their hospitality, are experiencing that at least their real rate of foreign aid has to fall dramatically. So this is a situation that is taking place in all the countries that receive refugees and asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165155	The next question is Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165157	The Conservative rapporteur had a little focus on business conditions and then stressed that in future it would be easier to produce cement in Aalborg with the reduced NO x Well that is the equivalent of the North Jutland cement producer being able to increase its profits by approx. 1 per cent, once you've adjusted this NO x I don't think that's what matters for the reality of Aalborg. There are a lot of priorities in this Finance Act, and I think it's a little disappointing to see that you can afford to freeze the ground blame for the landowners and thus, before the return, spend 755 million. kr., while at the same time we see these cuts in the green area, where among other things. EUDP funds have been more than halved. So, I think it is a little too poor that this Blue Finance Act cannot afford to give greater priority to the green transition, which has become even more topical since the Paris Summit on Climate Change. Significant exports of 75 billion. kr., as we now have, can increase in the future if we aim to go along that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165304	We are very much in agreement with that. We believe in green growth, we believe in green technology jobs. That is why we also fought for more money for the EUDP during the research negotiations, and I can safely say that there was not much support among the red parties for our proposal to give more money to the EUDP either. So there is a situation in which the Enhedslisten had to talk to its own rapporteur in that area, because we fought for it, but the other parties did not play that part. That NO x to 5 kr., means something for a lot of companies. In addition to Aalborg Portland there is the horticultural industry on Funen and e.g. Holmegaard's Glassworks in Næstved, that is, a lot of production companies that have real jobs in Denmark and now experience that they are in a situation where they do not have to pay more just in taxes to produce in Denmark. All possible other costs are higher in Denmark, but the extra NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165413	I don't think we should discuss those promos anymore. I think it is a little thought-provoking that a blue finance law has been drawn up here, whereby the landowners will be spared an increase in the ground debt next year. It says that it is the landowners, and that is to say that the 2 million people living in a rented dwelling and the people living in a cohabitation have the prospect that the landguilt in some municipalities will increase in the years to come. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not unreasonable for all the people living in cooperative housing or rentals to be subject to an increase in the ground debt while the Conservatives' friends in the owner-occupied dwellings are being accommodated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165455	The money has to fit, we can't just dig up money from a hole out here in the Palace Square, so that's why it was money for, and for which we prioritised, to ensure a real freeze for the landowners. They are the ones who have been in pain in their stomachs; they are the ones who have experienced that they have had to sell their house or sit with an uncertainty and have not been able to sleep at night because in some places the basic guilt has risen quite explosively for completely, ordinary families. That is the security that we will then give them, knowing that they can stay in their house.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165523	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165526	Thank you. I noticed that the rapporteur replied to a previous question that the rapporteur was very pleased with the tax freeze. After all, the tax freeze was introduced in 2001, and I would like to ask: does the rapporteur really think that the way the tax system was set up in 2001 matches anno 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165548-2	No, it doesn't. There are new forms of economy, for example. There are new production companies and technologies in Denmark. But the tax freeze has the disciplined effect that you can't just come and claim for new expenses. Because the tax freeze means that you can't just pick up the money by raising a tax or a tax. What was the trend before 2001 - no one mentioned - was that it was relatively easy every time you needed some money, because then you could just raise a tax or a tax. After 2001, except for the very famous Thai window, there was therefore a situation in which taxes and taxes could not be raised, and I should like to say that I was disciplining the ministries. It was followed almost in the former S-R-SF government, and the V-government that we have got here has followed it, and I think that is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165640	However, does the rapporteur not agree that if we are to organise society in a new way that matches the future, then we also need to be able to touch the tax system? Well, in my optics, it's limiting for a lot of things to just pull the tax card. We are then about to find out how we want to organize the Danish society so that it matches the future, and thus we also need to be able to use the taxes. So, in my optics, we have to abolish the tax freeze. So are there any thoughts in the Conservatives about when to enter into discussions on abolishing the tax freeze?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165716	We would very much like to throw all taxes on the table, but that is to put them down. I can't think of a single tax or tax that I think is too low not one. We are already the most heavily taxed society in the world. We are the country in the world where you pay the highest taxes, so that is not the way to go. We should not go in the direction of having to pay higher taxes and taxes. I fully agree that we need to organise the tax system in a different way, with more incentives and more focus on new technologies and new businesses. But this must be done within the economy that exists and then make things better and smarter and ensure that public growth is not as high as it is and that we make the public sector a little less.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165756	The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165759	Thank you. I think that the Conservative People's Party has sent out signals that could be interpreted as being the climate-friendly party in the bourgeois camp. In this context, I would like to hear what the Conservatives have done in this financial law. What concrete results have been achieved in terms of climate and the environment, which are different from those of the other civil parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165826	Now it's a common financial law. We've done this, and I don't think anyone's gonna say that this is where they've done it or that. Conservatives have fought a battle for the environment and climate, and we got some more money for the EUDP. Now it has been overtaken by the Danish Energy Agency's own figures here today with the 40.1%. in relation to the target of 40% that we have. However, we held onto it and also in our own resolution, which is due to be adopted tomorrow, hopefully. We have fought that battle, and we continue to do so, and we are satisfied with the efforts of all possible parties on both sides of the Folketing in this area. Because it is necessary for the future of Denmark that we have an offensive climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165907	As the concrete results achieved by the Conservatives in relation to the environment and climate of this agreement are very limited, one has to ask: When do you get on the field, what are your ideas, and what are your green visions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165919-2	We have a wealth of ambitions in the area of climate change. We go further than 2020 with the 40%, and we also believe that we should have a 2030 target. We have a lot of things that we think we should implement in Denmark to invest more on renewable energy and on green technology, because it will benefit Denmark and future generations. We will present this as a long string of new initiatives when we come with the whole palette in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165945	The next question is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216165949	I would also like to congratulate the Conservative rapporteur. I think it is entirely deserved to try to praise oneself for making luxury cars cheaper. I also have to recognise that, after all, the quite expensive class of cars must be brought up before it can really be felt that the registration tax has been reduced. It's because of this so-called crack limit. The same can be said of the freezing of the property tax part that the Conservatives have got through for 2016. I just want to hear something from the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur think it is right that the poorest pensioners should pay for the wealthiest homeowners to get even more on the coffin floor?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170032	There's not that connection. The point is that we are holding back public expenditure. We will not just look at the fact that there is an explosion in the development of public expenditure in one area, because it is affecting welfare in another area. Then we have an exercise which is about ensuring that ordinary Danish families with ordinary income can stay in their house without having to move because property taxes are increasing. These are children's families, they are older families, they are pensioners' families, and we then finance this by saying that we are freezing it and by holding back a little on public expenditure and finding the money in different places. However, there is no correlation between the housing allowance and that 60%. by the Danes can stay in their residence, because we maintain the ground debt in crowns and ears, so that in 2016 it will be what it was in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170122	But it has to be said that many of the pensioners who live in the municipalities and very many of the disabled who live in the municipalities are in question. Overall it is 325,000 Danes who are put down in January in housing benefits because they have screwed up in it over in the Ministry of Finance. There are 325,000 Danes whose housing benefits are cut. That is, I suppose, the price of being able to suspend housing taxes in the very richest areas of Denmark. That's the way it is. Then you can try to give all sorts of explanations that it is connected in a different way. But the truth is that you put the housing benefits at a standstill, and then you lower taxes for the wealthiest homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170202	We haven't made a final agreement on the housing allowance yet. We'll do that in the spring, and then we'll see how that decor is gonna be. But more money is being spent on the health system, more money on the elderly system and more money in the public sector at all. We don't think that's a good idea. When you save money in one place, it goes to some other areas. For example: We are dramatically increasing budgets in the health sector. We are doing so much more than, for example, we are doing it. the previous government did. So we have chosen to give priority to the money in the health and elderly sector by the Finance Law Parties, and then it is true that when you spend some money somewhere, you will of course find it elsewhere. They don't come from nothing; they don't just grow on trees.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170243	We thank the Conservative rapporteur and continue in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170251	Thank you very much. Inuit Ataqatigiit has among other things: elected to vote on being Greenland's free voice in the Folketing. This means that we are happy to cooperate widely with all parties, and my primary goal as a Greenlandic MP is and will be to take care of the 32 areas that Denmark still handles on behalf of Greenland. In addition, there is a responsibility for the almost 18,000 Greenlanders who are resident in Denmark. Unfortunately, we have seen that there were major misunderstandings about the financial law negotiations at this stage, and we have seen that the Minister of Finance did not choose to involve the members of Greenland's parliament. The misunderstanding was based on the fact that the Left believed that our wishes for the Finance Act were passed on by other parties in the Folketing. Let me be very clear: we have our own voice, literally. We are an independent party, and we reserve the right to cooperate broadly with everyone in the Folketing. That is why we also have a natural desire to promote the issues we are working on, just like all other parties in this Parliament. We are a party on an equal footing with all other parties here in the Folketing, and we therefore expect to be called on an equal footing with the others. We do not talk through other parties, but we want to sit at the negotiating table ourselves. After the Finance Act was closed, I had a meeting with the Finance Minister, and here I presented my wishes to strengthen the retention of Greenlandic students who are in Denmark in education, and to strengthen the Greenlandic civil society for Greenlanders resident in Denmark. It is important that we look at the middle group that is also, so that we get them into the working group so that we can have them included in Danish society rather than the group of socially vulnerable people continue to grow. There is little money to be devoted to achieving a great deal of progress, and we need to see it as an investment in which, with very little money, we can help to ensure that more people contribute actively to society and pay taxes in Danish society. Reports from the SFI commissioned by the Danish Social Protection Agency together with reports from the Institute for Human Rights document what we already know well in advance, namely that a larger group of Greenlanders resident in Denmark are exposed, also in relation to other Danish citizens. This is not acceptable when the Minister for Social Affairs says that Greenlanders resident in Denmark must just help each other. It does not solve the social problems of closing one's eyes or just letting go. Finally, I pointed out to the Minister for Justice, who is lagging far behind Danish standards. There is a need for a cover-up of the need for detentions or detention houses in the settlements. It cannot be right for us in a modern kingdom community to turn a blind eye when we know that the police's extended arm in the settlements, the municipal guards, is forced to chain up to radiators in private homes. Can we be aware of this and at the same time complain that there are too few people who want to take on the important responsibility of municipal officers when we know that about a third of the settlements are lacking municipal officers? Having said these things, it is in the expectation of being heard, because there are also some points that appear from the government's basis. It is about having more people take an education; it is about having more in work rather than on social support; and it is about ensuring legal certainty in Greenland. One can ask oneself whether we ourselves do not have a responsibility in Greenland, and to that one can say yes. This does not relieve the Danish government of responsibility, but requires that you cooperate and make a joint effort to correct these conditions. It has been an unsightly process, and I have great expectations that the government will rectify this in the forthcoming budget negotiations and, of course, ensure that Greenlandic members of parliament are also heard. Because of these criticisms that I have about the financial law process and the lack of involvement, I choose not to support the Finance Act, but to abstain. I hope that we will already be able to correct this misunderstanding and the lack of involvement of Greenlandic MPs in the next budget negotiations, and that the government will ensure that all members of parliament will, of course, be heard in the future budget negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170733	Thank you. There are a number of brief remarks, the first of which is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170740	Finance laws in Denmark are, of course, about money into and money out of the Treasury, and it is an important aspect of how many taxes you have to collect. And there we had the rather funny situation that it was very close that the two red Greenlandic mandates became crucial for us to have a red government in Denmark. Now we have a blue government instead, and it has chosen to lower some taxes. But if it had been up to the Greenlandic mandates, we would have had a red government that would not reduce taxes. It's a little funny when you think about what the taxes really are in Greenland. There are very low taxes in Greenland, aren't there? Do you have a top tax in Greenland at all, for example.? What is the highest tax rate for income tax in Greenland? I know it is very low, but when the Greenlandic mandates come to Denmark and have to vote on the Finance Act, one is therefore against lowering the tax in Denmark to Greenlandic level. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170843	Thank you very much for the question. We have a tax rate of about 42 depending on the municipal tax. We would like to see inuit Ataqatigiits take greater responsibility for those with the wider shoulders, so that is why we have fought a great deal to improve the tax system in Greenland. Because there is a need for those who do not have much money in their hands to get more money between their hands and for us to ensure that those who actually have some good income also contribute something more to the common.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170917	However, it is not a little strange that Greenland, which insists on having a maximum. tax of 42 per cent, sends mandates to Denmark, which will maintain a maximum. 56 percent tax. Here, and who is working against lowering the tax in Denmark to a level that you know from Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216170938	As I said in my speech, I am abstaining, so in this way it can be said that I am not going in and doing what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is talking about. What I think is really important is that we should also be involved. Denmark still has 32 areas in relation to Greenland, which we must, of course, ensure at a reasonable level. And the government's basis describes the government's wishes precisely in terms of securing, for example, security. a more equal justice system. At the same time, we see that there are a number of citizens in Danish society who are Greenlanders and who need a greater effort than the efforts being made for them today. These are some of the things that I had hoped I could have brought forward if I had been involved in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171025	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171029	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your cooperation with the free voice of the Danish Parliament. And then there were at least two things that I would like to see clarified: the proposal on how to maintain Greenlandic students in their education and also how to strengthen Greenlandic civil society, as the rapporteur said. I would like to hear how these two things can be done in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171059	If we take civil society first, we have 23 Greenlandic associations in Danish society. We also have a joint association called Inuit, which has also appeared before the Greenland Committee tomorrow. By helping to ensure that we have strong local associations by helping to ensure that they are very well dressed to solve their tasks, by ensuring that Greenland is represented in different forums, we can help to strengthen civil society and thus also the conditions that Greenlanders living in Denmark have. These are some things that have been documented in some of the reports I mentioned. And then we also have a pretty strong sorority, Avalak, for Greenlandic students in Denmark. One of the things I would like to see was that some initiatives were being taken. Some of the municipalities have, after all, taken some initiatives, for example. to offer academic Danish, academic English, but also to ensure a good start. We know that the progress reform has an impact on Greenlandic students. For some Greenlandic students it takes longer to take an education, because even if you know the language, it is quite different to move 4,000 km away. When you are a Danish student, you may move 100 km away.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171217	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171219	Thank you. Thanks for the good ideas. I fully agree that, of course, an old colonial power must pay more taxes so that we can help the former colonies to come to a level. Therefore, there is, of course, a difference between the tax in Greenland and in Denmark. There's another thing about the city guards. How many municipal officials are involved, and what would it cost to create a proper system that is sustainable and that could match the standard we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171250	Precisely because we have been consulted in previous financial law negotiations, we have actually fought on the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits through the fact that there are better conditions in order to get municipal leaders. So, as I see it right now, it is primarily the task of the police to ensure that there are municipal officers in all the settlements where it is needed. We have 61 settlements, and at the moment. We need municipal officers in 15 villages. But what I would like to see is in relation to detentions where we see that municipal officers have to chain in their private homes. I do not think this is appropriate for a modern kingdom community. I find it shameful that things are as they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171335	The next question is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171337	It was really Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, who made me take the floor. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur will not confirm that, according to section 28 of the Constitution, there are 179 members of the Folketing. There are 2 from the Faroe Islands and 2 from Greenland, which means that of course all 179 members form part of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171359	I would very much like to confirm that. That is precisely one of the things I am emphasising, namely that we must be respected on an equal footing with all other members of the House. Of course we have another constellation, you might say, but it is important that we sit here. If we are just to sit here without being heard and without being involved in financial law negotiations or in other negotiations, then it is extremely difficult to see where that is then involved in creating the political results. So respect for all members of parliament I certainly hope there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171429	We thank the rapporteur. Then I can tell you that the plan is now that the Minister for Finance will speak shortly, and when the Minister for Finance has made his speech, which is expected to take about half an hour, we will take a meal break half an hour to 45 minutes as requested. I now give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216171457	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for an interesting debate on the Finance Act for 2016. Before commenting on any speech, I would like to begin by outlining the main elements of the Financial Law Agreement. After all, the government has concluded an agreement on the Finance Act for 2016 with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, and I would like to sign off on the good cooperation and for the parties to share responsibility for our society. We have made an agreement on the Finance Act 2016 with some clear priorities that set a new direction for Denmark. With the Finance Act, the parties to the agreement have maintained the responsible economic policy. The August cash check showed that public finances were in less good condition than expected before the elections. With the financial law agreement, we have taken account of this and made a significant increase in public finances by 5 billion. kr. in 2016 and created air to the deficit limit in the Budget Act. The deficit on the structural balance has been reduced to 0.4%. of GDP, and thus there is now air to the budgetary law's limit, and we are one step closer to the objective of a structural balance by 2020. This is important for several reasons. Firstly, we need to adapt the economy so that the objective of balancing public finances by 2020 is achieved. It must ensure that there is also affordability to finance the welfare society in the future, where there are more older people. Secondly, the economy is now in the throes of a recovery in GDP and employment, which is why it is important that we pursue a wise fiscal policy that supports a sustainable recovery. That is why we must calmly tighten our financial policy in relation to the lax starting point. It has thus been a basic condition of the 2016 Finance Act that the framework was tight, and therefore all new initiatives are financed crown-for-kron through reprioritisations. We have taken responsibility in a difficult situation and we have dared to give priority. The agreement on the Finance Act is on two legs. We strengthen core welfare and security significantly, and at the same time we make everyday life easier for families and homeowners, and we create better conditions to operate in Denmark. We have set aside 2.4 billion. kr. extra for health in 2016. We gave the regions 1.4 billion. kr. in the agreement from this summer, and we also lift with approx. 1 billion kr. Here on the Finance Act. The money must be used, among other things. on an effort for demented. Many people have the disease in their lives, and here we can do better so that the growing group of citizens with dementia and their relatives get good help and a dignified and secure life. To deal with the problems of overcrowding, funds have been set aside for an emergency package in hospitals in relation to the elderly medical patients. Funding is also provided for increased capacity in public hospitals and to ensure a real right for the patient to be rescued or treated elsewhere if the waiting time in the public hospital exceeds 30 days. In addition, we have given priority to means to strengthen the urgent action in the outermost regions of the country and to boost the maternity services. With the Finance Act, we have also allocated 1 billion. kr. annual to support dignified care for the elderly in the municipalities. In future, municipalities must formulate a policy of dignity in which each municipality describes its overall values and priorities in the area of the elderly. It is well to note in addition to the older billion from the 2014 Finance Act, which is being put into the block grant in connection with the conclusion of the 2016 Economic Agreement with the Municipality of Landsforening. So now to spell it out completely: With the 2016 Finance Act, the municipalities can all spend 1⁄2 billion. kr. more on service in 2016, than could be done in 2015. At the same time, real growth in government consumption is expected to be 0.8%. From 2015 to 2016. Part of the increase is due to increased expenditure on asylum, but even when the cost of asylum is corrected, real growth of 0.5% is currently expected. So we are far from the scaremongering picture that is being drawn in the media by cuts in our welfare. With the 2016 Finance Act, we add a total of 1.9 billion to the police. kr. towards 2019 in the new multi-annual agreement on police finances. The new multi-year agreement provides a good framework for the future work of the police in securing a secure Denmark. With the agreement, Denmark will have a strong defence against terrorism, and we will have more police officers do police work. It must be easier to be a Dane, and that is why we have reduced the registration fee for passenger cars and motorcycles from 180%. 150 per cent. In concrete terms, this means that approx. 10,000-20,000 kr. less in registration fee for a medium-sized family car. With the tax reduction, it will be more possible to buy more family-friendly and roadworthy cars. At the same time, we have frozen the ground debt in 2016, which means that homeowners have to pay the same in DKK and øre in 2016, as they did in 2015 at unchanged ground debt phony. The Finance Act 2016 also strengthens the framework conditions for Danish business. It must be cheaper and easier to operate in Denmark. We will implement a number of initiatives that can create growth and development throughout Denmark. The Government has presented a plan for growth and development throughout Denmark, which translates the funds allocated by the parties to the agreement with the Finance Act to support the progress of the professions that are particularly represented outside the major cities and rural areas, and to improve conditions for living and working throughout the country. We also reduce the so-called NO x per. kg, and we cancel the advertising fee. These are both initiatives decided by the previous government, which made it more expensive to operate, and now we are rolling them back. With the 2016 Finance Act, we set aside money for a corporate tax reform to make Danish business taxation simpler and more competitive so that we can attract more foreign investment. At the same time, we want to improve the framework for the transfer of businesses to commercial funds, for example. in connection with generational change. It is agreed that family-owned enterprises must be guaranteed good framework conditions for a generational change. That is why we have set aside 200 million. kr. from 2016 to reduce the estate and inheritance tax, thus reducing taxation by transferring a business activity to a close family member. We are reintroducing tax freedom for individual employee shares. This means that employees can receive shares and buying dishes and drawing dishes at a value equivalent to 10%. of the annual salary. Finally, we have set aside money for an agricultural and food package, including targeted environmental measures, so that agriculture's nitrogen regulation can be relaxed. We also promised, before the elections, to complete the first phase of job reform by, among other things: to set a ceiling on how many benefits can be obtained from cash benefits, and at the same time we have tightened the policy on foreigners by, among others. to extend the integration allowance to residents of asylum seekers. The funds released will be used to reduce taxes on work in the spring. In addition to the Central Finance Agreement, a total of five sub-agreements have been concluded: a new multi-annual agreement for the police and prosecutor's economy; an agreement for a cash aid ceiling to pay for work; an agreement for the Royal Theatre; a coinciding of the research reserve for 2016; and a coinciding of the rate pool for 2016. The government would like to sign for more parties to take responsibility for these partial agreements. Let me also add a few words to the adjustments made by the parties to the agreement on the Finance Act for 2016, which we reached agreement on one month ago. It has probably all been clear that a number of questions have been raised over the last few days regarding the changes in the housing allowance included in the agreement on the Finance Act for 2016. Against this background, the parties to the Finance Act have agreed that the draft law on the provision of services will not be finalised in the Folketing but will be withdrawn. This, of course, leaves a financing need to be met in 2016 and in the years ahead. Therefore, a negative budget adjustment is included in the 2016 Finance Act corresponding to the proceeds from the housing benefits package. The parties to the agreement agree that the budgetary adjustment will be sought in the area of housing benefits, and this will be done in spring 2016 on the basis of a presentation from the government. I believe that this is a sensible solution in the given situation. It ensures that we have a fully funded Finance Act 2016 and, at the same time, we will have better opportunities to clarify issues and ambiguities. Questions have also been raised about the consequences of some funding elements in the field of the Fund. Here, the parties to the agreement agree that the special consolidation allowance for funds will continue to be removed from 2016 onwards. At the same time, it has been decided to maintain the current transfer rule. The adjustments to these financing elements leave a financing requirement of approx. 80 billion. kr. annual, which the Parties agree to implement in spring 2016 on the basis of a presentation from the Government. Finally, the parties also agree to discuss the amount of equalisation tax on pensions by 2020, and we will discuss the possibility of making the waste fee for companies an option. All in all, I think that these are sober and balanced solutions that show that the parties to the 2016 Finance Act are willing to take responsibility. With the 2016 Finance Act agreement, a new course has been set for Denmark. The August cash check showed that public finances were in less good condition than expected before the elections. With the Finance Act, we have taken account of the consequences and made a significant strengthening of public finances and created air for the deficit line in the Finance Act. At the same time, we have fulfilled our central electoral vows. We implement a significant strengthening of core welfare and security in Denmark, and we make it easier to be a Dane and company in Denmark through tax reliefs. All new initiatives are fully funded and thus we have created a financial law with clear priorities which, at the same time, strengthen public finances. What, then, have we heard from the opposition today? It is true to say one stomach-sucking post after another. Everything was better in the past. When there is a bourgeois majority, everything goes back. It was better under Helle Thorning-Schmidt. At the time there was minus growth in the municipalities, but it seemed to be minus growth in the good way. In 2016, there is growth in the municipalities' service framework, but the municipalities receive 0.5 billion. kr. More, apparently, is bad too. So we hear these endless complainings. The truth is that a dignified billion has been added, a boost has been made in the health sector and in the area of the elderly, and the police have been given a boost of 1.9 billion. kr., there are lower car charges and freezing for reason, but everything is bad. Dear Benny Engelbrecht, dear Pelle Dragsted, dear Josephine Fock, dear Martin Lidegaard, dear Jonas Dahl: Come up with the mood and rejoice that there is progress in the economy, decrease in unemployment, increase in real wages, cheaper cars, older billions, a boost to health. Why don't you join the fight in the positive way? One of the lies that appear in the propaganda of the opposition is that there is minus growth in the municipalities. I have to deal with that here. The truth is that there is also growth in the municipalities in 2016. In fact, in 2016 there are 500 million. kr. more available to the municipalities than in 2015. But let's take these lies one by one. The former older billion was not saved; the municipalities still receive the billion, but are now paid out over the block subsidy. The re-prioritization contribution will return 1.9 billion. kr. to the municipalities, and then to the dignity billion, which is delivered to the elderly area, and the net result is that there are 500 million. kr. more accessible to the municipalities. I hope that we will avoid the lying propaganda that seems to have become popular for the opposition to drive around with. The naked facts show it's wrong what you're saying. With regard to the re-prioritisation contribution, I would like to say that a tight financial framework requires the need for sustained development in the public sector and cross-sectoral priorities. A healthy economy is and remains the prerequisite for maintaining and developing the welfare society. I am not aware of the automatic reaction to a change of priority contribution of 1%. is tantamount to cuts in citizen-centred welfare. I don't have the imagination to imagine that we can't get any more out of every crown we spend today. On the contrary, I can only note that there are major differences in how much money the municipalities spend in the various sectors, and this tells me that the municipalities can continue to learn from each other and that there is a potential for reaping significant efficiency gains. One of the tools for supporting a healthy economy, which is essential for maintaining and strengthening our welfare society, is, as I said, the re-prioritisation contribution. It is a tool which has been used successfully for many years in the state and which helps to strengthen the possibility of reprioritising across sectors while supporting ongoing efficiency improvements. That is why I am not aware of the fact that it is possible to say that a re-prioritisation contribution of 1% can be said. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I simply do not have the imagination to imagine that we have reached the point where nothing can be done better than today and that we cannot get more out of the crowns and ear we are using today. Imagine if such a view was put forward in the private sector, where efficiency and improvement are a condition of survival. There is a need to think about efficiency at all times, and we could, of course, be inspired by this in the public sector. With a service frame of 238 billion. kr. I am convinced that in the municipalities too, great efficiency gains can continue to be realised through smarter processes, digitalisation, intelligent procurement, etc. And not least by learning from each other. As far as primary school is concerned, I can only say that there are municipalities which spend twice as much money per year. students like other municipalities, and I can see the same picture in a large number of municipal areas, such as administration and management, which account for almost 40 billion. kr., in the day offer area, which accounts for approx. 30 billion. kr., on the social housing offers, which account for 15 billion. kr. etc. And, yes, that difference is, of course, partly an indication that there is a difference in the framework conditions for service levels, but it also indicates that some municipalities are making things smarter than their neighbours. I would like to express my regret to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for the misunderstandings that have occurred and to acknowledge that IA is an independent party group. I would also like to say that we have had some sensible talk about the problems raised by Aaja Chemnitz about the work of the police in Greenland and also the relations of Greenlanders here in Denmark, their inclusion and helping them to enter university life and education systems. I promise that in future we will have discussions with the parties, just as we do with the Danish parties. Finally, however, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives for their excellent cooperation. After all, we are four different parties with different political priorities, and yet we have managed to get together on a financial law with the improvements it contains, in the area of the elderly, in health, with strengthened police, dignity billions, the facilitation of business conditions, cheaper cars and the freezing of land. Because in conciliation it is of course important that everyone can see themselves in conciliation, and today's debate has confirmed this, and I would like to sign for that. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216173657	We thank the Minister for Finance for the time being and, as announced earlier, we shall take a break before the long line of brief remarks. The sitting is now suspended and resumed at 1 p.m. 18.20.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182018	We shall resume the debate. I would like to put the Minister of Finance on the floor and then I will see who is the first to make a brief comment. The first is sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182052	Thank you, President. I hope, of course, that the little break with the opportunity to supply some food has given the Minister of Finance a slightly better mood. It's been a long day, and there must also be room to get some air and some food. That is why I would like to start out a little soft and just ask the Minister to confirm that it was indeed the case that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament came to the Finance Act negotiations with very open arms and was very accommodating. It was not the case that we were ever thrown out of the negotiating room. However, I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm to the Folketing and to the astonishing public that it was quite conscious that the government chose to give priority to drawing up a narrow financial law agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182151	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Benny Engelbrecht for caring for my well-being. I don't know if I like the food I got. It was such a marshy salmon of a species or species. It's seen better. Let me put it that way. I have not, of course, stuck under the chair in this whole financial law process, that I think that when the blue block had pointed to the Left as a minority government and to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister, so it was natural that the starting point of the negotiations was to make a Blue Finance Act. But I would like to sign for the reports that the Social Democratic Party made up and in the negotiations. I mean, we've made a deal together. The biggest of the reconciliations is about the police, and I am very pleased about that. But I thought it was a bottom-up task for me to make a financial agreement with the blue block. And I think that, despite the fact that we had four very different starting points, it is satisfactory that we could come together in a debate on a financial agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182313	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182316	It is quite true that there are very different starting points, and agreement has also been reached on the present Financial Act. There are some outstanding issues to be returned to in the spring. We've kind of been for a ride around that. Could I also ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that it is indeed the case that there have been some corrections and some changes in the perception of the Danish economy since the cashier's check-up to which the Minister of Finance has referred several times. There is, on the one hand, a greater amount of available resources up to 2020 • of EUR 42.5 billion. kr. and not at 31 billion. kr. of GDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182403	Well, this is where I mean the Social Democrats dress up with a little borrowed feathers. We did a check-up in August after we got there, and it showed that the famous room for manoeuvre that the Socialists spoke about before the elections, namely that there was 39 billion. kr., which could be given as gifts and good initiatives, was limited to 31 billion. kr. This is mainly due to the fall in oil prices, but also due to a few other factors. Then it is true that a later calculation has shown that the room for manoeuvre has again increased, but it is because, as has also been pointed out in the debate, some political decisions have been taken which have increased the room for manoeuvre. And it is political decisions that have been made despite the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182501	Before I give the floor to the next question, I would just like to remind you that up to one hour has been allocated to brief remarks to the Minister for Finance. So if we are to reach everyone on the list of speakers, please help to keep an eye on both minutes and seconds. Next to brief remarks, Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182522	Thank you. I was surprised that I came on so fast. On 15 December, I believe, the Minister of Finance has answered a question from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht on how many children there are in the families affected by job reform phase 1. It is such a fine word for the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and all that, and the Minister has replied that it is estimated that approx. 34 500 resident and resident children and those under the age of 18 without dependants will be part of a family affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, i.e. 34 500 resident and resident children under the age of 18 will be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. No specific question has been asked about the 225-hour rule, because it is not readily identifiable. Is the Minister proud of that result? Is it a really good result that we can adopt a financial law which will mean that almost 40,000 children and young people are affected because they are in families that have a substantial reduction in their availability, at the risk of poverty for those families and at the risk of even more being on the streets? Is the Minister proud of that result?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182650	I have to say that I actually regard the problem of being able to pay for work as one of the major social problems. And the reason why we are setting a ceiling on cash aid is because we have been able to see that for a large number of people there is too little difference between being on cash aid and being on a minimum payment in the labour market. That is why we have chosen to tackle this two-tier approach: we are putting a ceiling on the total amount of public benefits available, and the other is that we want to lighten the tax at the bottom of those with the lowest labour income. After all, both must contribute to a greater incentive to move from a transfer income to a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182742	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182745	Thank you. So, I do not think the Minister answered my question: is the Minister proud that so many thousands of children, that is, almost 35,000 children, come from families who are affected by this rule, with the danger of poverty and the danger that they will end up on the streets? I would like an answer to that, and I would just like to say to the Minister: the Minister himself does not believe that people are going to work because they are reducing social security benefits, in this case cash benefits. According to the agreement on the cash benefits ceiling and that package, it is expected that approx. 1,100 gets to work as a result of it. However, legislation is being put in place that potentially affects more than 150,000 recipients of cash benefits. So where does the fierce optimism come from, that if you take some money from someone who is already poor, then they suddenly get to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182840	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182841	Well, I'd like to say to sir. Finn Sørensen, I think it can be said that from the last time we had a ceiling on cash aid and until the previous government lifted the ceiling on cash aid, the number of cash aid recipients increased. And frankly, I regard it as a very, very important task for us to ensure that it pays to work, that it pays to leave the cash benefits system. Therefore, it is just as much a matter of what to say, moral things in relation to the many people who stand up every day for a perhaps not very paid job, paying transport and going down to the nursery or nursery with the children. And that is where I think we have to recognise that a society must be built on perfectly natural incentives and that one of the incentives must be that it must be worthwhile to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182937	The next brief remark is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216182942	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your attention. I fully agree with that. After all, I think that we must have a future that will be really good and will be really fun, and that we must learn to transport ourselves in a different way and learn to live in a different way, and we may also have to work in a different way. In fact, I asked a number of questions in my speech today, to which I have not heard the Minister reply, and that is really what society the government is dreaming of. It is very, very difficult to read and hear from the draft budget that lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183030	I am actually sorry, because one of our main priorities is to ensure that the economy of this society is healthy. For the only thing that can guarantee prosperity in the future is that we have production in this country and that we have a high level of employment in this country. If you want many of the things that we all share in wanting in this Chamber to have good health care, good care for the elderly, good kindergartens, etc. So we will only get that income if there is a high level of economic activity here in society and if the economy is self-sustaining. And that is, in fact, what matters to me overall. Then, of course, it must be combined with the fact that we are pursuing a sensible climate policy, that we are pursuing a sensible foreign policy, that we are pursuing a large number of other policy areas. But what we owe the Danes here and in the future is to ensure that the economic foundation can bear the welfare society we have. That's what's the lead star. I noticed very well in the election campaign that the alternative to the question of where all the money would come from to reduce working time to 35 hours said that money is not everything. And, of course, that is true, but after all, money is quite an important part of maintaining the welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183209	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183212	Thank you. The last thing I want to do is replicate. After all, the Minister for Finance and I have sat before each other in an agreement debate, we both know that it is possible to negotiate long-term. But what I want to ask you is really something that Mr. Jacob Jensen also mentioned in relation to the opposition when quick loans were spoken. So I would really like to ask the Minister for Finance: is it not precisely quick loans to drop long-term investment in research, education, development aid, culture, climate and green conversion? In other words, there we are borrowing something very quickly and we are going to pay very, very high interest rates in the long term because we are not investing in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183255	Now it is also one of the myths that is being brought forward at the moment that we are bombing this society and the research back. Clearly, in a situation where we inherit an economy that is not as good as it was produced before the elections, we need to consolidate the economy. And one of the things we saw was that there was 0 kroner. to Finance Law 2016. So in relation to some of the good things we wanted in Finance Law 2016, we had to find the money, and there we have looked out and said: Well then we have to make savings. There all areas have had to bear some of the savings, and I think that is a great sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183343	The next short remark is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183348	Thank you. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to sign off on the cooperation that has taken place in connection with the creation of the Finance Act, although there have also been some challenges. One of them has been the housing benefit. It has now been postponed, so we will have to discuss it when we come into 2016. Now there have been plenty of things going on in the debate and a lot of people have expressed themselves, especially in the campaigns that have also been going on, and I would just like to hear whether the Minister for Finance cannot confirm that the government is now, of course, making contact with the KL and addressing the issue at its core. It is, of course, that 10 billion are now being spent. kr. Every year to support this form of housing, and that one has to investigate what the reason may be, that rent has risen so significantly over a number of years, and that the government will address it, that is, what the reason for the rent prices have risen so significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183446	I can confirm that. One of the main challenges we have is that there is no link between those who grant the building and determine the construction, and then those who have to pay. And then it ends with a bigger and bigger bill for pensioners. This is a problem that we announced to the National Association of Municipalities here in connection with the municipal agreement of June, and it is one thing that we are raising with the municipalities right now in the new year, so that it can be discussed how we can secure nursing homes, elderly homes in the future, which are at an affordable level, while at the same time there is a proper quality in construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183531	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183534	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister can confirm this, and of course I expected it too. Because that's what's important in this discussion. It's not important what housing benefits are. What is important here is that you have an adequate housing allowance, which allows you to live in an organized accommodation if you are disabled or older and have a care need. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister from the Parliamentary Chair can confirm that the challenge here is not the housing allowance for the individual elderly, the challenge here is that you now have a level of 10 billion. kr., because the individual rent has increased significantly. This reassures me, the Danish People's Party, and it should also reassure the elderly who have followed this overheated debate, that is that the goal is to get the rent down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183622	Well, that is clearly the purpose of the exercise we are doing, namely to ensure a quality building for a decent rent that the elderly can handle. Secondly, a slope is that the rent continues to rise. Sir. Yesterday, in the Committee on Finance, Bent Bøgsted set an example where one could see how the rent on such a dwelling increases 3%. a year. Of course, these are quite wild increases, which means that the rent eventually comes up to DKK 130,000, or something like that, if I remember that example correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183702	The next brief remark is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183707	Thank you. The Minister for Finance has, of course, several times in the course of today wanted it to appear that all the savings made by the government were due to the fact that the kingdom was made money when it finally arrived. So now, in the light of the poor evening meal that the Minister of Finance has had, I would like to offer a really crisp, warm shawarma for a clear answer here. So, what exactly has happened from the cashier's check-out, where the Minister for Finance was out saying that there was a huge gap, to the last Economic Statement, which showed that there was really a bottom in the finances and that everything was much, much better? I know it was the pension return, the so-called PAL tax, which had increased, but the Minister for Finance said a short while ago from the platform here that it was due to some political initiatives he had taken and which made it now have a better economy. I would like to expand on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183759	Now I think, sir. Martin Lidegaard is running around in it. The PAL tax affects the actual balance, i.e. the actual deficit, and this is interesting in relation to the 3-percent limit of the EU's growth and stability pact. But what we are controlling the economy is the structural deficit, and that is one of them. In addition, a number of other savings have been made in terms of savings in development aid, which means that room for manoeuvre will be increased in the coming years. But that has nothing to do with the actual balance, because we are steering the policy according to the structural balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183842	The questioner for the brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183845	So, I know that savings in development aid do not increase economic room for manoeuvre. The reason why I contest it and it is a very technical discussion, which may be a little difficult to understand for people sitting in the living rooms is that there is actually a bottom in the public economy. The last Economic Statement showed that both the structural and the actual balance are fine in Denmark. I would therefore just like the Minister of Finance to confirm that every penny saved here has been spent on something else. That is a clear political priority, and it can be done. But you shouldn't get rid of the previous government. It is a clear priority to cut funding for education, research, green conversion and development aid, and this is done in order to finance a financial law which, incidentally, I think is utterly hopeless. But it's a clear political choice... nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216183933	I'm afraid I have to say it again, sir. Martin Lidegaard, that we do not control economic policy according to the actual balance. No one can estimate the PAL tax. Sometimes it's very tall, sometimes it's very low. The actual balance is as it stands, but it is interesting in relation to the Stability and Growth Pact. What we are driving and steering in economic policy is the structural balance, and it is, of course, the one that is affected by the political decisions that are being taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184004	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184009	I'd really like to follow up on that, sir. René Christensen asked about earlier, namely that there has been an increase in prices in the non-profit sector, i.e. in this case in nursing homes, and that is why the housing allowance has then increased. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that there has also been an increase in housing prices in the larger cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184030	Yes, there has been an increase in housing prices. After a period when prices have been stagnant and falling, we are again seeing housing prices rising. But there are many things that need to be looked at. We also need to look at administrative costs, for example. the non-profit housing sector. So there's a lot of analysis work we need to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184055	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184057	The prices of owner-occupied dwellings have risen sharply. Now property taxes are being reduced in order to breathe even more into the home bubble on the private housing market. On the other hand, they want to get in and regulate. I think it is interesting what the Minister of Finance is now saying, namely that now you want to come in and look at it. So, we are a little left with the idea: has there been any analysis of it since the draft law was tabled? An agreement has been made with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party... a financial agreement signed by the parties on the day before it was to be dealt with in the Parliament hall. Now the Minister for Finance says that they will look into it. Haven't you done your preliminary work in the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184143	Of course we do. I'd like to correct a mistake. Well, it's our assessment that we're not in a home bubble at the moment. After all, there has been a slowdown in housing price increases in the Copenhagen area, but this is, of course, an area we are following very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184200	The next brief remark is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184207	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for recognising that the North Atlantic parliamentary mandates must, of course, be included in the financial law process forward-looking. And then I would also like to sign for a good talk that we had at a subsequent meeting, but I hope, as I said, to be involved more. I would like to ask the position of the government and the Minister for Finance on these three areas which I mentioned, in other words, about the further process of ensuring the maintenance of young people in education and of ensuring a strengthened civil society and detention houses in settlements, which are, after all, stated targets for the government in the government base. How can we help to ensure that funding is also provided for these areas in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184259	As far as the police and the police are concerned, as well as the question of settlement officers in the settlements where there are no settlement officers at the moment, I have discussed this with the Ministry of Justice. I hope that the Ministry of Justice will come up with an initiative in these areas. I also recognise the other thing that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen spoke about when we met, but also here from the platform, that is to say, the retention of young people in education when they move down to Denmark to train themselves. This is a very important task, and we must also find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184345	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184347	There is no doubt that we ourselves, of course, have a responsibility in Greenland, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech. However, as I have said, I would very much like it to be a joint responsibility. I think it is extremely important to move from words to deeds, including on these issues. It is not enough for us to just talk about it; it is also important that we translate it into concrete actions. So I want to hear what the further process is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184414	Well, I guess the Justice Department wants to talk to the government about these problems and hopefully some agreements will get under way. There has been, I think, a misunderstanding about the police settlement in relation to whether the police settlement should include Greenland too, and in Greenland there has been a perception that Greenland was excluded. But I just want to say that we have made a police deal for the whole thing so I hope we can present something and agree on some solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184458	The next brief remark is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184503	Thank you. I guess it's been a really crappy day in the office of the finance minister. Because I understood from the finance minister earlier this day that when he got up, he was not aware that he had sent a message to 325,000 Danes that they would be withdrawn from their housing support in January. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, just to be absolutely sure that I have understood correctly: if the Minister for Finance had no information at all, no letters have been sent to the Minister for Finance, has it not otherwise been informed to the Minister for Finance that this was being carried out and is the case with the whole government? In other words, apart from the Minister for Finance, are there any other ministers who have been aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184557	For my part, I can say that I did not become aware of that question until this morning when I heard Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten raise the question. And, of course, I went downstairs to see if it had anything on it. I was then told that it could possibly be stopped, but when I returned to the ministry, I was told during the lunch break that those letters had been sent. What I have then ensured is that that error will be corrected as soon as possible. It is so in connection with the payment of the housing allowance that about half will get too much paid now on 1 January, and about the other half will get too little paid. So there's going to be a job to do to make up for that damage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184657	The questioner on the second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184700	Fortunately, it is not everyday that letters are sent out to 325 000 people without knowing it, and that also applies to the Minister of Finance. It has just to be said that this has been an embarrassing process which has now culminated today, and it is, after all, a political total theater. But I think that if you had tried to make that show there, you would have failed at the fairground school. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister of Finance if he can ensure that this mistake is corrected as early as February so that people do not have to go into uncertainty any longer. The second question I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, or rather call on the Minister for Finance, is to give an unreserved apology here from the platform to the 325 000 people who, in this way, are given a very unwelcome Christmas present.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184800	I have been told that the damage will be repaired during the month of January and before February. That's the first thing. Secondly, of course, I would also like to apologise for what has happened. Thirdly, I would like to say that I think it is an explanatory error that has happened because the ATP, which has already paid out Denmark, has based their actions on the financial agreement concluded a few weeks ago. And that's why it's come as a surprise to them that the bill was withdrawn. So it can be said that the error can be explained, but of course it must be apologized to those people who will be paid too little in housing benefits, and of course also to the half who has been paid too much. This will be corrected in the course of the coming month.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184858	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184902	Thank you. Well, it has been an unprecedented chaotic process around the Finance Act, not so much the creation of it, but what we have witnessed here. This also applies, of course, to the matter of housing benefits, where the victims are, after all, the 325 000 pensioners we have just talked about. But what we have heard today is unheard of. Because we have heard René Christensen stand on the floor and say that he has been cheated in the negotiations that have taken place with the Minister for Finance. So my question to the Minister for Finance is of course: why is the Minister for Finance cheating the Danish People's Party in the negotiations that are about the country's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216184940	I think I have to say that no one is trying to cheat anyone. But the premise for this proposal was, of course, that everyone with an income below DKK 150,000. would be released, and technical runs showed that it was not possible to do so. And that's why we decided to withdraw the bill. I am, of course, sorry that there are some who are getting too much and some who are getting too little in housing benefits here on 1 January. The benefit has been paid in advance, and that is why payment has been committed by Denmark which they have committed. I am sorry, but I also believe that we can make up for that mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185030	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185032	Well, I think it's a good thing that the Minister of Finance does. But now I asked why the Minister of Finance is cheating the Danish People's Party in these negotiations. Because in today's debate I have heard René Christensen stand on the platform as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and say that he feels cheated, and the Minister of Finance now says from the platform that in the debate that is due to take place this spring, the money will be found within the framework that exists. And then I can read on DR's website here at 2:00 a.m. 18.12 that Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that now you have to see if you can find the money, that it is not really safe, that it will be a difficult exercise, and that you have to look at it. It's two different things. So, is the Minister of Finance once again cheating the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185113	We are now starting to translate the negative budgetary regulation that is on this issue. I think I can say that the questioner does not need to be nervous. We're gonna find a way to solve this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185128	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185133	Thank you. The government had, in its financial act, taken a little unusual amount of money from a conciliation group, which had a majority in the Folketing, specifically the conciliation circle behind the agreement, which is called better and cheaper public transport. The Danish People's Party then went to the set meeting, and Kristian Thulesen Dahl said in front of the entrance that when the Danish People's Party had entered into a settlement, one could count on it, and then the money would of course stay in the conciliation circle. That, then, is what I would just like to be sure is also the case now that we are about to adopt the Finance Act. So my question is really just: Did the DF succeed in ensuring that all the money remains in the settlement for better and cheaper public transport? This is true, for example. including the savings for tariff initiatives that we have been told are there and the cancelled purchase of electric trains, which freed nearly 0.5 billion. kr. Is all the money that was in the conciliation circle the day before the Finance Act also in the conciliation circle if we vote in favour of the Finance Act tomorrow? When I ask, of course, it is because it is quite crucial that, when we have a settlement, all the parties to the conciliation agree that it remains, and then we are on the goal. So I just need to be absolutely sure about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185247	We have, of course, tabled technical amendments to return that money to the Finance Act, and Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself has found that there is that money on the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185301	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185304	When I ask, it is because I have put forward a number of proposals to which I have been given a very unclear answer. I have tried to clarify whether this applies to all the money, including those for 2016, 2017 and 2018, and the money for tariff initiatives saved in the conciliation circle, almost EUR 0.5 billion. kr., and the money from a purchase provided by the Minister of Transport has been cancelled because it had not been possible to purchase ellocomotives, why the money had been withdrawn. So, will everything that was in the circle of economics and money on the day before the Finance Act also be there if we vote 'yes' tomorrow? I just want a clear confirmation of it, so we are absolutely sure of it, and so the Danish People's Party can safely vote for the Finance Act and keep the promise they have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185352	I think the Danish People's Party can, because we have brought that money back through a technical amendment to the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185359	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185405	Thank you very much. It was really nice to hear the Minister of Finance mention local dignity policy from the platform. I think this is a very interesting way of thinking politics and needs and perhaps even rights. There is one thing, however, about what we in the alternative are a little bit awkward about, and that is that this type of value-based policy, the dignity policy, as far as I understand, should only be about the elderly. Could the Minister for Finance imagine that the government's future work would meet children or vulnerable citizens with the same kind of dignity policy as older citizens meet in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185452	I would say that the question is a little strange. As a matter of principle, I want all citizens in this country to be treated with dignity. What we have done in the area of the elderly is, of course, concrete, that the municipalities must relate to the services they provide to the elderly and that they can then seek money to improve the quality they provide today. It is not, of course, the case with the dignity billionaire that we are setting a certain level which applies to all municipalities. All municipalities must publish how the level is in their municipality, and if they want to improve that level, they can apply for money. In fact, I think that this is a very sensible way of dealing with these matters, so that it is the politicians in each municipality who are responsible and who have to answer to the citizens for the services and treatment that the elderly receive in the municipality. But it is not the case that I believe that we in the Folketing should set common standards for everything in all municipalities and uniform them. There is, of course, municipal autonomy, and that is the starting point for our work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185612	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185614	Does this mean that the Minister sees what lies in the dignity billionaire here as a kind of quality boost, and will this quality boost necessarily be reflected in a dignity that can be measured? Or is it the quality promise that needs to be measured, and should it be reported in this way in relation to the dignity billionaire?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185640	It should, of course, be reflected in a boost in the individual municipality of the level at which the individual municipality is now at, or a boost in the areas where it is to be improved. We will, of course, follow closely how it is done, but the most important controller in such a case is, after all, the citizens of the municipality to which it relates, and this is where the citizens and the elderly will be able to keep track of what is the level of the municipality and where they want to improve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185714	The next short remark is Mr. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185719	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister was able to get a little something to eat, because it was a bit of a svada we had when we went down to hear the Minister's speech. The opposition spread lies, and we were angry, it sounded. I think it was a little to cover up the fact that the Minister has been through a rather unsightly course, which all of Denmark pulls off a little. Of course, we can do no more than apologize. I think it is nice to hear that a new expression has been invented, namely dignity billions. This is a very fine expression, and I agree with the intention of it, namely that we should treat our elderly properly and that there should be good and secure security about the daily lives of the elderly and that they should be treated with dignity. But is it true that what the municipalities are going to be required to do is to draw up a policy of dignity in relation to getting a share in the money, because then it eats a little of the proceeds?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185823	If I understand correctly, sir... Orla, if you'll excuse me, because I'm not an expert on these relationships, then all municipalities have adopted policies in this area. What we have wanted to see with the dignity billionaire is to make visible what the municipalities are doing, what the municipalities are offering the elderly, and to give them the opportunity to seek funds from this pool to lift the area that they feel is urgent and necessary to lift in the municipality concerned. So that's up to the individual municipalities. I think I have been told that on the website of most municipalities, if you are able to look for such things, you can find information, typically the decisions made in the Social Committee, about what the standard in each municipality is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185921	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216185923	I believe that the Minister for Finance is right to demarcate in relation to the fact that each municipality has an ageing policy which is expressed, but the truth is that if a new element in such a policy is to be incorporated, then the municipality must review its entire older policy and carry out the administrative political exercise. Then I'll just try to do a little math. That's about. 10 million kr. to each municipality that will be available. I have a really good acquaintance at home who cares a lot about looking at what you get for the money, and the truth about this is that there's gonna be 2,61 kr. per day per day older people in the municipalities to do good with. Since it is DKK 2.61 that is available in the real world, is there any basis for the Minister to say that we can now raise the standard? And I know it's an average, and that, of course, is the weakness of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190021	I don't really understand the point of Mr. Knox. Orla Hav's post. Mr. Orla Sea, it is superfluous that we have paid 1 billion. kr. to raise care for the elderly in the municipalities? And if sir... Orla Hav thinks so, it's got to stand for sir. Orla Sea's own bill. I think it has been very sensible and even desirable that we should not set a uniform standard throughout the country. We are based on the policy of every municipality, and then we say that if they want to lift it in some area, there is money to be collected here. The aim of this is, of course, to make visible what the municipalities are doing, to make political decisions visible and to provide financial help to raise the level.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190109	Sir. Magnus Heunicke has the next brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190112	Thank you. Like many others, I have read very carefully this agreement which was made in the Ministry of Finance last night, and it was reached just before a consultation and an urgent question and other things, and that is where the problem is primarily pushed out. And the Minister has also acknowledged that the problem is being pushed out and that we then hope to find a solution to it, in other words to how to deal with the proposed and agreed, but now exposed savings in the housing benefits of the most underprivileged pensioners. But if you read the small part of the agreement, and you always have to do so in such an agreement, you can see that there is a completely different element at the bottom that is suddenly affected, and that is that it is far from the poorest pensioners, but that it is actually the most wealthy pensioners we are talking about here. Indeed, there is the equalisation tax on pensions which the Minister of Finance himself introduced when he was last Minister of Finance, as far as I remember, and it says that the parties agree to discuss the amount of equalisation tax on pensions by 2020. There we need to know: is this something that needs to go up, or is it something that needs to go down? In other words, should the wealthiest and wealthiest pensioners get off cheaper, or should they contribute more to this solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190235	The compensatory tax will now be phased out towards 2019. What we shall then be discussing is whether, in relation to the phasing-out that is running where it is now 5 per cent, and that then becomes 4 per cent, 3 per cent. and 2%, can advance it, and it is a discussion that we now take after New Year when we get back to work here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190258	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190301	Thank you. I think that was a good thing to clarify, because that is not in the agreement. In other words, there is the matter of the compensatory tax that was introduced when you were last in government, which has nothing to do solely and completely in isolation with the most prosperous pensioners who have had an exceptionally high deduction because, at a time of higher taxation than now when they are receiving the pension, they have been able to deduct their contributions to the pension. And that means that while there is this postponement of the problem in relation to the housing allowance for the most poor pensioners, at the same time we must find the means to make the most prosperous pensioners. Is that how you're supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190345	It has to be understood that we are discussing the phasing out of this tax and that we are looking at whether it can be faster or how we are going to deal with it, and I think that is a perfectly proper thing to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190401	The next brief remark is Mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190407	As I heard the Minister finish the speech, it was one big sales speech for the upcoming municipal cuts, just under the motto: cheer up, and down with the municipal service. I would say that when you come out of the communal world, it is frankly a little difficult to maintain the good mood, because everyone knows that when we have to save about 1% in advance. So I am still left with a big question: what is the Minister's idea that a kindergarten should be made more effective if it is not less educators per year? child you're gonna have? Because there's a building, there's some legos, there's some diapers, it's limited what you can save on it. Most of a municipality's expenditure is in the social and older areas and in the area of children and young people. That's 70-80 percent. of a municipality's expenses, so if the minister wants to save one percent on everything else, it is not 1%, you have to save everything else, so it is 3%. or more, depending on what's left at all, if you don't have to tear down the town hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190519	You can hear that, sir. Jesper Kiel follows the tradition of saying things out into thin air. So the municipalities have 500 million. kr. more available in 2016, than they had in 2015, i.e. more money is being contributed to the municipalities. Well, then, sir. Jesper Kiel also believes that we have achieved the ideal state; nothing can be changed in Danish society. But let me just say that if I look at the municipalities, I can see that the administrative costs of the municipalities amount to almost 40 billion. kr., and that there are some municipalities that have twice as high administrative costs per. people like others. If we look at what savings could be made if the least efficient municipalities became as effective as the most efficient municipalities, there were 1.8 billion. kr. to save. And if you take the road and park area, you can save somewhere between 300 and 400 million. kr. So it is a myth that the municipalities cannot be streamlined. But worst of all, sir... Jesper Kiel continues to spread the lie that savings are made in the municipalities. In 2016, the municipalities have 500 million. kr. more available than they had in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190645	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190647	It is notoriously wrong to say that you have 500 million. kr. more in the municipalities, because 900 million have also been lost. kr. in the construction sector, which was originally some money received from the service sector. So all the money you've got extra, you've paid for it yourself. But what the Minister is now doing is playing welfare air guitar, because when you give 1 billion. kr., gives it more dignity, but then you take 2.4 billion. kr. back the next year, it has no world significance for the municipal welfare. You give, and you take, and then you give, and then you take. One would think that there could be more and more dignity out of it, the more billions that were given and taken by the Minister. That's what I call welfare air guitar. It's completely empty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190728	I completely disagree with that description. In 2016, the municipalities will receive 500 million. kr. More. After all, when we have to negotiate in the coming years, we are negotiating with the municipalities on how much is needed for the coming year. After all, this is a purely negotiating issue that we are discussing with the municipalities. So it is a myth that things are getting worse and worse and that today we have the best state of everything. I bet in ten years' time the prosperity of this society will have increased considerably, and then Mr. Jesper Kiel look back at the good times in 2015 and say: Well it was much better then. Well, that's a false argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190817	The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190821	So there is something we need to clarify here. Because when you read yesterday's agreement, you see that what is really striking is the redistribution that lies in the agreement. In other words, not only has the Danish People's Party agreed that there should continue to be a saving in housing benefits. The Danish People's Party has also agreed that there should be some extra money for the very richest pensioners. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that this is the case? I assume that the sentence contained in the agreement, which states that the parties agree to discuss the amount of compensation tax on pensions by 2020, was what the Liberal Alliance had to have in order to agree to reopen the Finance Act. The Danish People's Party has agreed to make a relief for the richest pensioners, in return for which they could still make a reduction in housing. That sounds like a pretty weird deal. But can the Minister of Finance confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190919	I can confirm that after Christmas we sit together and discuss the outstanding issues. One is the question of housing benefits. The second question concerns the taxation of funds. The third question is about the compensatory tax. And the fourth question we are going to discuss is the question of a registration system for waste. We will have to discuss these four issues when we meet after Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190948	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216190950	In other words, unless the Minister of Finance says something quite different in his second answer, I can conclude that what has been done with this agreement is that they have said: we continue to want to save on housing benefits, that is our intention when you are the government and the Danish People's Party, and at the same time we give our hands on the fact that we are now giving some money to the very wealthiest pensioners. In other words, it is completely incomprehensible and, by the way, frivolous that you go in and make an agreement, where you take from some of those who have the least to live for, you hold on to that you want to; there you just shot things to the corner and then you send a check up to those who receive the greatest pensions. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191040	The Minister of Finance can confirm that what is our main task is to ensure that the elderly receive some housing for a reasonable rent and in a decent quality. And that's what we're gonna do here after the holidays, and that's kind of the main purpose of this. I think that all the parties in the Folketing should be able to gather together on that task and say that, well, let us make sure that we get decent housing for affordable rent and in a decent quality. After all, that must be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191116	The next brief remark is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191122	Thank you. There are different political priorities, fortunately, in this Parliament otherwise there is no reason for us to be different parties. The government has put forward its policy, and there are many of us who disagree, but what I really want to ask the Minister is the way we distribute the money, the state's household budget. There is only the money that is now available according to the calculation methods used, of course. The previous government made an effort towards tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, etc., and we are some who have been sorry to see the government roll back some of the initiatives • tax control in construction, the government is also opposed to ID cards in construction, open tax lists etc. If the Minister agrees with me that it is also very good to be able to get an extra income when you want to distribute some money, what does the Minister think has been done in this draft budget to actually get back some of the revenue that we are missing out on and that is at least 50 billion? kr. A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191243	I have to admit that there have been some cases of SKAT, the EFI system, the payment of tax refunds to foreign companies which have cost society money. That is also why we have agreed to put ourselves together in the parties of the Folketing and now, over the coming years, to build an effective tax system, an effective recovery system. That is where we have also set aside money to enable additional staff to be recruited in the SKAT so that we can have effective recovery of outstanding claims. I fully agree with the questioner that the prerequisite for us to have the welfare society that we have today is: paragraph 1, that there is confidence in the tax and tax collection, and paragraph 2, that one cannot cheat off one's tax payment. That is why we must, of course, have an effective tax administration. But I have to admit that we have seen some things in the course of the year that make it a major reconstruction work that we are doing in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191400	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191402	Nor did I really mean to insinuate that the government is solely responsible for some of the sloppy things that have been done with EFI systems and everything else. I put the question to the Minister because I am interested in what can be done politically about it. I think it is rather a pity that the government has failed to take action on direct tax evasion, which is taking place at the level of the billions who are running out of the state treasury over the borders, but also against both the illegal tax evasion and the grey area where we also see tax evasion taking place. So it is not so much about EFI systems and sloppy, and what else has been going back a number of years, but about what can be done politically against multinational companies' tax fraud, transfer pricing and all these tools that are in use. Will the government not come up with any initiatives so that we can get some more money in the box? When we're missing 50 billion. kr., it is the taxpayer who has to pay the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191508	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191510	There is, of course, a great deal of work going on at international level to deal with these transfer pricing tax evasions. There is a lot of work going on in the European Union, and there is also international work. And I fully agree with the intention. We must ensure a tax system that can be trusted. There must be legal certainty, but we must also ensure that the tax to be paid is paid, and there must be no mercy to people who are trying to evade tax payments in Denmark. For it is, after all, the foundation of our welfare society that we pay taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191554	The next brief remark is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191603	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the Minister for Finance's speech. In the Minister for Finance's reply, the Minister for Finance answers that immediately in the new year we will meet KL with the aim of lowering the rent so that people get a rent that is affordable, but the construction also needs to have a proper quality. My question is: is the ambition in the discussions with KL that the rent should be reduced in the upcoming building of elderly housing, or should the rent also be reduced in the existing older building?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191645	What is crucial is that it does not become as expensive in the future building as it has been up to now. That is where we would very much like to be able to put in place and discuss a better link between those who decide the construction work and those with whom the bill ultimately comes. This is a very important discussion for us, because the problem we see is of course also on the short track here, but when you get to 2020 and 2025, when you get older, this is a problem that will be very, very big. And, as has been the case in the debate, we are currently paying 10 billion. kr. to this area, and with the more elderly coming, the problem will increase in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191741	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191744	Thank you for your answer. I am aware that there is pressure at all for discussion on the financing model for the general sector. However, I choose to interpret the Minister for Finance's first answer in this way and then I must be corrected if it is wrong that the Minister for Finance has no ambition that there should be a result in the discussions with KL that will ensure that the rent is reduced in the existing older building.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191811	I don't think you can. These homes are built under certain conditions, but these are the mechanisms we would like to change, because it will be an increasing problem in the coming years with the greater number of elderly people coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191829	We will make one more brief comment, and I can already say that some individual rapporteurs have asked for a second round. But the next brief remark is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191843	Thank you. When the government saves so much on climate and environment and on green conversion, is it because it is believed that the challenges that are in relation to climate and environment, both in Denmark and globally, are becoming smaller?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191904	No, I think the problems are there. It is not the case that we deny the problems. It is also the case that we think that Denmark should be at the forefront of energy and climate change, and all the figures show that we are doing so. However, when we find ourselves in a situation where we have to finance a finance bill with a crown-to- krone financing, then I think we have to look broadly. That is also why we have found funding widely distributed in Danish society, and then everyone has to bear a burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191944	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216191948	Thank you. Among the climate savings included in the Finance Act, some of the research and some of the funds that have shown that they can generate revenue and green businesses are also being spared. And now that the government is so fond of growth and of creating jobs, why do you save some of the things that create growth and jobs in the green transition? Is it not risky to lose the opportunity to create a really good position for Denmark in the sustainable global labour market of the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192021	I do not mean by the savings made on this financial law that it in any way upsets the great effort we are making in the area of climate, energy, the environment. Despite the fact that we are saving, we are very, very good with regard to these objectives. As far as research is concerned, we are, of course, meeting the Barcelona objective at one percent in research, so it cannot be said that we have in any way relaxed our ambitions. But, as I say, when public finances are under pressure, we have to bear some savings widely in Danish society so that we can do better for our elderly people, so that we can lift the health care system, so that we can give money to the police. Then it will be like a task that we must jointly bear, and research, educational institutions, cultural institutions, and what do I know, on which we have savings in the budget law, all have to bear their share of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192131	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. We will not be able to make any more brief comments within the hour allocated to it. I am reminded that there are some rapporteurs who want a second round and in the second round speaking time is five minutes and up to three Members can have time for short remarks. I'm just gonna make sure I have the real names that's signed up for round two. It's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative, and then I am unsure if Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF, wants another round. I take them in the formal order of the rapporteur, so the first rapporteur to speak in the second round for five minutes is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192226	Thank you. We have had a long day so far, and it is not over yet, but the conclusion must be on what has been said, and we all agree that the money must take care of it. When you look at the proposals of the various parties and what has also emerged from today's debate, both the proposals that are made formally and the wishes expressed by the parties, you can see that it is not an uplifting reading if you agree, moreover, that the money has to be taken care of. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with the Socialists, who so fervently wish to return to the ministerial offices, to understand why we could have expected more than just a few pages of prose with a little loose poetry. One could have imagined a slightly more well-worked financial bill. However, there is no lack of criticism of others' proposals. So I think it would have been decorated if, after all, one had taken the trouble to come up with something that the rest of us could have played political ball up, rather than the endless series of criticisms and criticisms that have been poured out from the platform here today. Of course, this is due to the fact that it is more convenient for the Socialists to criticise the rest of us without even proposing solutions to the challenges we face. It can be said that the government is giving priority while the Social Democrats are criticising. Then I will try to work together to the best of my ability on the basis of what I have noted from the amendments and comments what economic policy it is actually that the Socialists want to pursue, among other things. in the four amendments which, after all, have been brought together to table. The amendments, one must understand the rapporteur from the Social Democrat Party, have been put from such a strategic point of view addressed to the Danish People's Party. Here I went and thought that the policy put forward in the Parliamentary Chamber was presented because you actually had something on your mind that you would have changed, and not because you just wanted to tease a political opponent from a strategic point of view. Then we got so smart. If we look at the four amendments which, after all, have been tabled, we see that, in isolation, it actually brings about a positive improvement in the finances in the region of 400 million. kr. It comes from the roll-back of the residence and gift tax relief, and it comes from the roll-back of the housing job scheme, while the Socialists, on the other hand, propose amendments to use funds to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and cancel the housing allowance package, that is to say, the one we have already postponed. It then gives overall in the vicinity of 400 million. kr. in plus. However, in the wishes expressed by the Socialists, mainly by criticism of many of the government's budgetary improvements, the calculation looks quite different. Here there is no end to the expenditure-intensive areas that the Socialists want to address. We want to roll back savings on aid from the developing countries. It's a $2.4 billion bill. kr. The re-priority contribution in the field of culture will be cancelled. It's a $100 million bill. kr. Then we want to roll back savings in the field of research. That's 1.4 billion. kr. S will roll back savings in the field of education. That's 800 million. kr. Then we will cancel the savings in the green area, 300 million. kr., and there must be no saving, one must understand, in the area of urban renewal. That's a 75 million bill. kr. Moreover, the re-priority contribution for municipalities, net 500 million, will not be implemented either. kr. I'm sure there's more, but my abilities don't go beyond this. All in all, we want expenditure in the region of 5.6 billion. kr., and it's gonna have to be financed with these lousy 400 million. kr. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). In other words, the Social Democrats' proposals and demands on financial policy diminish the accounts by over 5 billion. kr. already in 2016. It is, in fact, a kind of money, especially in a situation where the SR government had already run the policy and Danish economy well and well to the edge of the permissible. Of course, as far as the other parties are concerned, things are not going to get much better. However, I would like to point out that Mrs Josephine Fock of the Alternative says that in her optics it is nevertheless financed. I think that is a step along the way. Of course, we can always discuss how safe the sources of funding we operate are, but nevertheless, it is a step along the way. I think, in fact, that this is very significant for the situation in Danish politics at the moment. The Left Government works hard in good cooperation with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives on the ground in getting the economy into the middle of the road and on the right track. We deliver on one election vow after another. We're prioritizing. We are heading in the right direction, and we are leaving it to others to criticise. As you know, you have to do what you do best.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192715	I can give priority to up to three short remarks, and I will do so because not all rapporteurs have asked to take part in the second round. The three who are given priority here to the rapporteur of the Left are Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Socialists, Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, and Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192740	It is unbelievable that, after so many hours of debate, there can still be doubts about it, so I am trying to do it again. Can the rapporteur of the Left confirm that the basic mechanism of the agreement reached last night is as follows: there will be a reduction in housing benefits in some form that we do not yet know because it is going to be discussed. This applies to the country's pensioners who have low incomes and who can receive housing benefits. That is one part of the agreement. The second part of the agreement is that a check is sent directly to those with the highest pensions in the form of the compensatory tax. We do not yet know exactly how, whether it is the percentage or the phasing-out, or what it is, but we know that that is what it is about. So the basic mechanism of the agreement is that those with the lowest incomes should continue to be taken away from them, not those with incomes below DKK 150,000, but the others, and then money should be given to pensioners who have the highest pensions. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the basis and basis of the agreement reached last night?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192843	No, I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192848	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192851	Then I would like to know whether the sentence contained in the agreement is intended to increase or continue beyond what was envisaged. Because if that is not what is intended, then the mechanism will be the one that if you have to find money on the housing benefits, it will per. definition hits people who have low incomes. That is what the ATP report says: over 95%. have low incomes. Conversely, those who benefit from the compensatory tax, if it is put down in some way, will be the richest pensioners. So it has to be said in the rejection that it is intended that the compensatory tax should actually increase. Or what is it that lies in that rejection?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216192937	I can only refer to what has been agreed. That is the easiest and most safe thing to do, also from the point of view of the questioner. It appears that we will look at the housing benefits package on the basis of the issues that have been raised; that we will seek to find the funds • in 2016 it is 90 million. kr. That is what has been agreed, and that is what the agreement says.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193007	The next brief remark is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193011	Why don't we try to be honest in this debate? Well, we've all read the deal that's been made. The Danish People's Party has had to grant a concession to the Liberal Alliance to phase out the compensatory tax in order to postpone these drastic cuts in benefits for old-age pensioners and early-retirement pensioners. The compensatory tax is a tax paid only by people who have a pension payment of more than DKK 362,000. in 2010 figures, i.e. a very high private pension fund, which is 4-5 times as large as an ordinary national pension. Then we cannot just confirm that the result of that agreement is that the poor folk pensioners, for example. with a household income of DKK 200,000. Can't we just confirm it, because that's what the agreement says?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193114	No, it's not in the deal. It says in the agreement that we will look at the housing benefits area. We have also agreed that we will look at how to put down the rents. That is what I thought we had been using all this morning's debate during the question and probably also part of the debate on Finance Law. That is our intention. So the pensioners with the lowest incomes are not going to the pockets. They need a lift.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193143	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193144	You don't make a deal about just sitting around and looking at something. We know that, I would say to the rapporteur. In other words, when an agreement says that you have to look at something, the purpose is to arrive at a result. There is a reason why the Liberal Alliance has said: okay, we are reopening the entire budget law; that is fair enough; we are dropping the cut on the benefits to the elderly, which we otherwise thought was a very good idea. They haven't done that for nothing. Well, don't treat us like a kindergarten here in the Folketing. It may be that we sometimes think we are from the outside, but quite frankly: that is what this agreement is all about. Now we must be honest: the richest pensioners must have and the low-income groups must pay. That is what is in that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193222	I am not going to interpret what other parties might think there is in the agreement. I can only say that what the agreement says is what has been agreed. That is what I have referred to, and that is what I am sticking to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193233	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193237	After all, the agreement reached yesterday by the government with the parties to the agreement states that the amount of compensatory tax on pensions should be discussed by 2020. The Minister of Finance stood there a moment ago and said that if you look at it, it's to lower the tax. I assume that if you want to reduce the compensatory tax between pensions, we are talking about reducing this percentage, which is precisely for the richest pensioners. At the same time, we have also been confirmed earlier today during the debate that the Left is continuing to seek this billion in housing benefits for the poorest pensioners. I guess it's hard to see it differently from the poorest pensioners having to pay to the richest pensioners. Is that not the essence of the agreement reached yesterday by the government? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193325	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193328	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193331	It is almost even more absurd than the process we had yesterday, when an agreement was reached, and where the Minister for Finance and the Danish People's Party sat and discussed with each other in a consultation in the Finance Committee. I have the text here: the parties agree to discuss the amount of equalisation tax on pensions by 2020. The Minister of Finance has just confirmed that this means reducing the compensatory tax on the richest pensioners. I suppose we can agree on that after all. Aside from this, you have to look at the housing allowance for the poorest pensioners. The rapporteur has already confirmed in today's debate that a billion dollars will be collected. In other words, it is the poorest pensioners who have to pay for the richest pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193410	But then I'll have to try again. Well, the point of the whole exercise about housing benefits is that the lowest incomes should have an economic boost. We've been saying that all along. That is the intention of the political agreement, and that is what is apparent from the agreement that has been made. You can then say that you will look at it by looking at the performance. Is that interesting? No, it is interesting to see what the pensioner has for himself when looking at benefits and rent. That is what is interesting for the pensioner; that is what is interesting for me to assess; and that is what lies in the agreement that we have reached, namely that it should be looked at on the basis that the lowest income should have a boost. What else lies in the agreement is clearly shown in the text of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193453	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193513	At least one thing has been achieved by the government, and that is to create a huge insecurity among the country's folk pensioners, early retirement pensioners and people affected by disability. Over 300,000 people have received a letter stating that their housing benefits are being reduced; some have received a letter stating that they will receive more than that. They're getting hit, there's already people getting hit. Then an agreement has been reached which was presented to the Danish People's Party yesterday in the media, as if these deteriorations in housing benefits for pensioners had now been taken off the table. But no, it has become quite clear in today's debate that this is not the case. They haven't been taken off the table, they've just shot out that the storm may have just passed; then you have to grab back and find 1.9 billion. kr. in the pocket of the country's folk pensioners. Then you try to say that the poorest retired people are excluded. What is meant by that? Well, it is believed that those with a household income of less than DKK 150,000. shall be exempted. Well, dear friends, if you have a household income of 200,000 kroner. or DKK 250,000, you still belong to the poorest and to some of the groups with the lowest incomes in Denmark. So that's bullshit. That agreement does not exempt low-income pensioners. 95% payments of housing benefits go to people from low or very low-income households. Then we have got one more thing out today, and that is what the Danish People's Party has had to pay in order not to get dropped, but postponed this cut. And what was that? Yes, a tax relief for the richest pensioners, for pensioners who have the greatest private pension payments. This is what the Liberal Alliance demanded for the Danish People's Party to be able to postpone this violent cut in housing benefits to the people's pensionists. So the result is that those who have the largest pension savings can look forward to a tax relief, while people's pensioners in low-income groups still have to go out there and shut themselves because they do not know when the hammer hits and how hard it hits. That is what is clear after today's debate. I also need to make a correction, because after the first round the Enhedslisten could have left the impression that Enhedslisten is not fully funding its amendments. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen asked how we could find 1.2 billion. kr. to abolish the housing job scheme. Unfortunately, I did not have our amendment on the platform so that the debate could have given the impression that it was a mistake or a deficiency in the Enhedslisten's amendment, that is to say that it was unfunded. That is not the case, however. When you propose amendments to the Finance Act, you put them on the Finance Act proposal. And if the rapporteur of the Left or anyone else is interested, they should look at Item 38.11.01. Then you will see that 1.2 billion has been set aside. kr. to the housing job scheme on the financial bill, which we then propose canceled. And that is the way to propose amendments to the Finance Act, namely to the original draft budget. All of this may sound a little technical, but the conclusion is that I was right when I said that our amendments are fully funded and in full accordance with how amendments are tabled by law. This is a little important to me because we actually take pride in funding the proposals we make, crown in ear and ear in ear. The right wing has such a little story about the money tree in the backyard of the left wing. If you look at this draft budget with negative budgetary regulations and with very, very optimistic assumptions about behavioural effects, you can discuss who has a money tree in the backyard. It is important that the money votes no matter what you think it should be spent on, no matter who you think it should pay. I strongly disagree with this draft budget. I think it takes the money in the wrong places from people affected by unemployment, from folk pensioners and I think they are spent in the wrong places; to give tax rebates on the most expensive luxury cars, on a land-of-the-art debt relief that hits extremely socially wrong, on gifts to an industry that already has record profits. However, whatever you think, the money must of course vote, and that is why it is important for me to stress that, of course, revenue and expenditure were consistent in the Enhedslisten amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216193959	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194015	Thank you. I'll be brief. I was asked by the Enhedslisten whether I will vote in favour of their amendments. I did not quite understand exactly what kind of question Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding asked me. Because what she asked me was whether I could help support the focus on green entrepreneurship and so on, and we would really like that. However, the amendment that Enhedslisten then asks me to vote in favour is about abolishing the housing job scheme, and it goes without saying that I do not want to do so. So I'm sorry I misunderstood and I've been wrong. Then I can see that the Enhedslisten's amendment is Amendment No. The vote will not be taken at all. The second thing I would like to take this opportunity to do is to thank Mr. Jacob Jensen for what I interpret as a praise for the calculations of the alternative. Of course, I thank you for that. I would like to clarify this, because Mrs Jane Heitmann asked me a question as to whether our proposal has been financed. And that's it. It's financed crown to crown. We have a slightly longer time horizon than one year. We've been counting on four years. That is because we say that we need to have a coherent plan that goes a little further. We have also written in our submitted calculations that it is a horizon of 4 years. That is why, in the first year, there is a deficit of 2.5 billion. kr., and that's only 2.5 billion. kr., because the housing job scheme is becoming cheaper. It's only gonna cost 400 million. kr. the first year. On the other hand, there is a surplus of 330 million. kr. in 2017, 1.6 billion. kr. in 2018 and EUR 1,18 billion; kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, it must be said that the housing job scheme will be a little cheaper. So it was just to acknowledge the rose from the Left and just clarify how it is we have calculated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194217	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194227	Thank you. I did not actually decide to take the floor at the outset, but I must admit that after the rapporteur was on, I thought it was difficult to avoid. Because what we are witnessing today is simply absurd. We used to be in a situation, it was yesterday when there was uncertainty about the Finance Act. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti could not quite agree with themselves whether they had actually agreed to a finance law or not. Then it was agreed to reopen it so far, so well. Then what was reopened? It was, of course, that you agreed to look at this housing allowance package. Then we must look for the implementation of budgetary regulation in the area of housing benefits for the coming years. After all, we have had a longer debate on this today in the Parliamentary Assembly. And it has become fairly clear that what you have to pick up is not just a revenue in 2016. It is a revenue in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019. And the starting point, as the bourgeois parties agree, is that the income from housing benefits, that is, from the weakest and poorest pensioners, should be taken from them. But what is a little interesting, and it was there, the rapporteur of the Left, that I found a little slippery earlier, is in relation to the equalisation tax on pensions. The compensatory tax on pensions was introduced some years ago and consists of 6%, and then it is gradually escalated here from 2015 onwards. But it's $349,000. Here in 2015. Why is that interesting? Yes, because the agreement also writes, and I assume it is something, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives and once again congratulations on the introduction of the idea that the amount of compensation tax should now be discussed. The Minister of Finance confirmed earlier today that when we say that we are discussing it, it is in the sense that we have to lower it. So what we are going to do with this, what are we going to call it, the supplementary agreement that was concluded last night, is that we now need to discuss reducing the tax on the richest pensioners. At the same time, it has still been confirmed by the bourgeois parties that nearly 2 billion have to be collected. kr. over the coming years on housing benefits. In other words, with the votes of the Danish People's Party, you have to go out and get almost 2 billion. kr. In the case of the poorest pensioners, while at the same time encouraging additional tax cuts to the richest and giving a faster escalation to the compensatory tax on the pensions that are really, very high. I think it is interesting and I am glad that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is following the debate. I would actually urge you to go up and take the floor with the uncertainty that has now emerged here in the last few hours and explain the agreement reached yesterday by the Danish People's Party. In fact, I think it would suit the Danish People's Party to go up here in the second round and explain what kind of agreement we actually have. In any case, the rapporteur of the Left could not explain it clearly. I must say that the séance we witnessed yesterday in the Parliament's Finance Committee with the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, who disagreed with the Finance Minister, did not exactly testify that a clear agreement had been reached. I think the uncertainty has become frighteningly great. So I would actually like to call on the Danish People's Party to stand up and explain what it has said yes to, not least in relation to the housing benefits package, which all the bourgeois parties have today confirmed is about not only in 2016, but in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and beyond, having to collect income from the housing benefits, that is, from the poorest pensioners, who have to pay perhaps not only some tax cuts in the government's tax reduction in the spring, but also to reduce the compensatory tax for the very wealthiest pensioners. I understand that you need to talk about it in the Danish People's Party over in the rooms now, but I think it is thought-provoking that the bourgeois parties have agreed to take some of the table first, then they confirm here in Parliament today that in the spring they will be discussing a marked reduction in the housing allowance that the weakest pensioners receive, and at the same time they are setting up to facilitate the tax more quickly for the richest pensioners. It must indeed be said that Denmark has had a bourgeois government that turns the social end down so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194636	Thank you. And there is a simple brief remark from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194641	Thank you. Thank you for the call to interfere in an important debate. Sir. Jonas Dahl is interested in yesterday's text and has sometimes referred to it. Let me not say that there is someone in this Chamber who reads a text as a wise man is said to read the Bible, so I would like to say that you just have to read the text. What has been agreed is what it says, no more and no less. Then a very big attempt is made to read a lot of things into the text. I would recommend that you do not. I would recommend that you just read the text as it is, and then you can see what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194719	Well, I have, among other things. I also took the trouble to read the text, and we also made the trouble of the consultation we had with the Minister for Finance yesterday, where the Danish People's Party was also represented, and one of the things that has just been said is that we should seek the implementation of the budgetary regulation in the area of housing benefits, and what was uncertain was precisely whether it was only 2016. That is why we asked the Minister for Finance yesterday for a consultation, which is why we asked all the bourgeois rapporteurs in today's debate, and it has clearly been confirmed by the bourgeois rapporteurs that it is not just in 2016. No, it is in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and beyond that that you have to pick up the proceeds from the housing services. And the Minister for Finance also replied clearly to this earlier today, namely that this is the intention behind the proposal that was included in an agreement on yesterday. I find it interesting if the Danish People's Party has a different view of it. What has become interesting here at the end of the afternoon or at the beginning of the evening, as it is now, is that the text goes on to say that it is also intended to reduce the compensatory tax on pensions, bearing in mind that the compensatory tax, which is an extra tax, is being applied to the richest pensioners. But at the same time as reducing the tax on the richest pensioners, it is planned to reduce the housing allowance for the weakest.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194829	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194830	No matter how many times mr. Jonas Dahl says something wrong, it's not gonna be right. What the text says is that the compensation tax should not be reduced. And when someone wants to discuss that situation, we would like to discuss it with them. It also says that you should seek to find the proceeds, and then it is a question of what can be done and how to do it. You have to read the text as it stands, and even if Mr. Jonas Dahl, for political reasons, what I understand, is trying to read all sorts of things into the tekten and peace be with it, because that is part of our ordinary political struggle... then it won't be right anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194908	I'm so glad that Mr. Knox... Kristian Thulesen Dahl has come to the Assembly Hall. I would just like to call again for him to come up here on the platform of the Folketing and take the floor. We have just asked ourselves this question, and that is why we asked the Minister for Finance earlier today what this about looking at or discussing means. In fact, the Minister for Finance replied quite clearly that this means reducing the compensatory tax. That is the answer that has been given to us in the Parliamentary Chamber. And it is of course interesting that we have asked precisely about the fact that we must seek to implement budgetary regulation, and I assume that the Danish People's Party will also be financially responsible and ensure that this regulation takes place. The answer we have received from all the bourgeois parties is that the savings in housing benefits will have to be found in the area of housing benefits for the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194954	The next brief remark is from Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216194957	Thank you. It has to be said that the drama in this debate continues and continues. For now the chairman of the Danish People's Party has arrived in the Assembly Hall. He was not here half an hour ago when we had a debate with the Minister for Finance, where the Minister for Finance answered very clearly a number of questions from myself and a number of my colleagues on how to understand this, with the parties agreeing to discuss the amount of compensation tax for pensions by 2020. So the Minister for Finance made it quite clear that this means lowering this tax on the most prosperous pensioners. How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that the other contracting partner, the chairman of the Danish People's Party, says today that the agreement reached last night is not, therefore, the way the country's finance minister interprets the text in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195049	I fully agree that the confusion over what is going on in the blue room is now almost total. For last night we had consultations in the Finance Committee, where one of the rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party asked the finance minister how to understand that agreement. And at least it was clear that the understanding of the agreement in the Danish People's Party and the understanding of the Minister of Finance were quite different. This is exactly the same thing that we are seeing again today, when the Minister of Finance clearly says that when you have to discuss it here and look at it, it is on the basis that the compensatory tax should be reduced. And now we hear that the chairman of the Danish People's Party has understood the agreement differently. That, frankly, suggests a little doubt. I think it was the chairman of the Danish People's Party who said something a few weeks ago about political agreements. I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: How was it? Can you count on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195141	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195144	This is a rather unusual and very interesting situation, I have to say: firstly, we are going in and reopening the financial agreement because of the housing benefits and all the chaos that has been around them. However, the parties to the agreement in the Blue Block cannot even explain what the content really is. I would like to ask the rapporteur from the SF: if this is actually the case, as the Danish People's Party says this evening, contrary to what the Minister of Finance says, does the rapporteur from the SF believe that the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives will agree to raise taxes for the most prosperous pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195225	No, because frankly, I also doubt Conservatives and Liberals. But it also seems that it is perhaps the only two parties that have actually got something out of that financial agreement. For both the Danish People's Party and the government apparently disagree on what has been agreed, and on the other hand Conservatives and Liberal Alliance have managed to ease the tax on luxury cars and get a little done about property taxes. And now a small tax relief has just been imposed on the richest pensioners. I think it's good work by the Liberal Alliance and Conservatives. I disagree terribly with the political content, but I have to admit that political craftsmanship has been done. Perhaps it would have been good if others had been able to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195303	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195308	I just want to say that I understand the agreement exactly the same way that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl understands it, namely that what is in the agreement is what has been agreed. Now I could understand that for Mr. Magnus Heunicke's concern was that the leader of the Danish People's Party was in the Chamber during the debate. How, then, does the SF rapporteur feel about the Socialist leader, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, not taking part in the debate in this Chamber? Because if it is as important to the Socialists as I understand it is, how does the SF rapporteur feel about the fact that the leader himself is not present?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195348	It depends entirely on who negotiated the political agreements. I know the Social Democratic leader and, for that matter, the SF leader has not negotiated an agreement last night. I understand that the chairman of the Danish People's Party has negotiated. I do not see the leader of the Left in the Chamber either, but I guess it is because it was not the President of the Left who negotiated that agreement. But I think it's interesting that sir... Jacob Jensen now says that he now agrees with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, for if you rewind time a little back to Mr. Jacob Jensen's own rapporteur's speech, one can see that he clearly said that this budget improvement should not only be taken in 2016, but also in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195421	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195423	What I have said is exactly what the agreement says, and that is exactly what I understand, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl understands that the deal says. So there is no contradiction between the two. But, of course, I know that there is a political motive that is legitimate, but it is just not conducive to understanding what we have agreed. But I know that it is, of course, up to other parties to throw gravel into the machinery, but it is just not our view that it has something on it. We have agreed on what we have agreed, and we are fully committed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195455	Now I have had the pleasure of being present both at the urgent question we had this morning and now at the third reading of the Finance Act. And there we have asked the rapporteurs of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, with various variations, how this agreement should be understood. And we have quite clearly got the answer up here from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament from the Finance rapporteurs of the respective bourgeois parties, that the agreement should be understood in such a way that you have to collect this revenue from the housing benefits not only in 2016, but also in 2017, 2018 and 2019. That is the disagreement that is in the blue block, and we have to say that at least it has not become clearer for us how we intend to resolve the problems at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195534	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There is another rapporteur who has joined us, and that is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195542	I did not intend to speak in the second round of this debate, but with the ambiguity that is now emerging in relation to what is actually in force in the agreement reached yesterday at the end of the afternoon, I simply have to call for a clearer response from up here. I took part in the urgent consultation which was held last night in the Committee on Finance. That is what the former Minister of Finance described as Mr. Bjarne Corydon is very clear: what we are experiencing is absurd political theatre. Why would he do that? He did so because we saw a finance minister who interpreted the text in one direction. Then we saw a rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, who interpreted the text in a different direction. Great was the amazement. That is why it was also clear that when we arrived at the urgent question earlier today, it was good to clarify that there was agreement from Mr Beazley. René Christensen and from the Danish People's Party and from the Finance Minister on how the text should be interpreted. That is why I have to say that when we are here at the very last hour before we are about to vote on the amendments to the Finance Act, then it must be fair that the Danish People's Party can come up here and explain to us what is in the following interpretation of the text of the agreement of 15 December 2015 under the heading heading: The equalisation tax on pensions, which states that the parties agree to discuss the amount of the equalisation tax on pensions by 2020. We have therefore heard from the Minister for Finance that this is a question of the parties to the agreement discussing whether there should be a relaxation in this area. Is that the case? Is that the deal? Is that the prerequisite? Yes, that is what is unclear about. I think it is quite reasonable that we can get a clear answer here from the platform. And I think it would, of course, be most appropriate if the chairman of the Danish People's Party, who has not otherwise interfered in the debate during the day but who has done so in the end, actually interprets the text for us. After all, the Minister for Finance has had every opportunity to do so until now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195817	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we go over to the privateists, and the first privateist is Mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216195834	Thank you. As the tax rapporteur, I followed with a little extra when this agreement was made yesterday, and I could see at the bottom of the text that it has been agreed to discuss the amount of the equalisation tax on pensions by 2020. It's in mr. Jacob Jensen's wording today became that it had only been agreed to look at the compensatory tax. I do not know if this is the way things are going on physically, that is to say you will find some paper where it is, and then you will sit down on a table and drink a cup of something and then look at the paper where there is something about compensation tax. But what the Minister of Finance was told it might have been while Mr. So Jacob Jensen did not hear it was that the amount of the compensation tax would be discussed and how long the phase-in would last. That's what the Minister of Finance said to Mr. Magnus Heunicke and Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. By the way, I'm glad that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has been present in the Chamber, because perhaps this is another agreement in which the papers have not really been read and where the questions that should have been put along the way have not really been asked. Perhaps we have gone from evil to worse here. In other words, there has been another bill for the one to be picked up in the new year. We are currently adopting a financial law that is not really in control and that needs to be picked up by some, and the imbalance has increased. The only thing that has happened is that the Danish People's Party has been postponed a problem for the most disadvantaged pensioners. On the other hand, the Liberal Alliance has had to be paid for a further increase in the imbalance, another relief for the most prosperous pensioners. I just asked a member of the Liberal Alliance if it had really been agreed to raise the compensatory tax, if that is what the agreement says. And I met such a slightly astonished, perplexed face as a deer struck by a lamplight, and the person said: Set up! Of course, it has not been agreed to raise the compensatory tax; it is intended to be reduced. Indeed, the only people on the bourgeois side who voted against it were the Liberal Alliance, so that is what has happened. If you want to hear what the Danish People's Party said about it back then I have just found the rapporteur's speech from Mr. Mikkel Dencker, who was the tax rapporteur at the time, can be read the reasons for doing so: It has been crucial for the Danish People's Party that both the overall tax agreement and the compensation tax agreement, which we here first treat as a bill, were as socially balanced as possible. This has been our intention when we chose to enter into the negotiations on the tax changes, and this agreement on the equalisation tax is a piece of more of the tax changes to ensure this purpose. So we have to recognise that there will be an increase in imbalance here. I have also found the bill from then on, and just so we can agree on what we are actually discussing, I can read a little bit about the equalisation tax on large pension payments. •Inflows on pension schemes with current and instalment payments can be fully deducted from personal income. For persons paying top tax, the value of the deduction is 59 per cent. labour market contributions and church taxes). Before 1998, the value of the deduction was even higher. People with high incomes have thus been able to deposit amounts with very high deduction value. The opposite is that payments from the schemes are subject to income tax. The reform significantly reduces the marginal tax and thus also reduces the tax on payments from pension assets already built up. This implies an unintended gain for the existing pension savings deducted from higher marginal taxes. The Parties agree to introduce a temporary equalisation tax for persons with large pension payments in order to neutralise this unintended effect. So it was a compensatory tax that was introduced at the time, because it would simply be too socially unfair to allow people who had contributed money to a private savings with very high deduction value to receive such a significant tax relief as would be the case. So that is the compensatory tax that we are now going to reduce. So because the Danish People's Party thought that people could be made to overlook the fact that you would hit the most disadvantaged pensioners with the housing allowance package, you got yourself into a situation that you had to try to solve at the eleventh hour before the Finance Act was to be passed and discussed today. The Liberal Alliance has then had to be paid even more. You can almost hear the champagne corks bouncing from the bottles again, because there are again some of the most wealthy people in our society who will really benefit from it if you abolish the compensatory tax that can look forward to a tax relief. The disadvantaged pensioners face Christmas with insecurity in their stomachs. The more well-off pensioners can turn up the Christmas shopping in the last few days before Christmas Eve, because the Danish People's Party is on another tax relief for them. That is what we must understand is agreed yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200347	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200350	I would like to confirm what a member of the Liberal Alliance has said to Mr. Jesper Petersen, namely that it is not agreed that the compensatory tax should be increased. I can then add to Mr. Jesper Petersen's information that it was not agreed to reduce the compensatory tax either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200411	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200413	It is interesting and good information to get there. I mean, if you have a condition that applies now and that you are not supposed to change, why should it be in the agreement? Then there is probably a great deal of existing legislation that could be listed in such agreements, just to be able to say to each other: we have them today, and we have to have them tomorrow, and we are not going to set them up or down, by the way, but we would just like to mention that they exist. It is in order to put it down that you have had to put it in. That is what the Minister of Finance said to us earlier today. Perhaps he was a little too clear about that, and that is why Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl come to the hall and try to sprout the chestnuts out of the fire. But either you disagree again, or you simply will not stand by what you have agreed. The Minister of Finance said that it should either go stronger with phasing it out or that the percentage should be reduced. That's what was meant to make that deal. I don't see what else it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200514	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200516	I can confirm to Mr. Jesper Petersen, that you would be able to make a very long list of things that you can discuss. It just doesn't have a honk to do with the fact that it's not agreed to lower the compensatory tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200531	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200532	On the other hand, it has not been agreed that it should be set up. When it says on the bottom line that we will be discussing the amount of equalisation tax on pensions by 2020, there is something in it, and if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has too little time to speak when he has to ask me his questions, he has to put himself on the platform and explain to the mob what the hell this is all about. I would actually like to call for that. I think that is the best way to clarify this, because so far different things have been said and everyone else has to understand that there is a new relief on the way to the most prosperous pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200608	The next brief remark is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200614	I am also confused at a higher level, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur: would it not help us all a little if the President of the Danish People's Party took advantage of the opportunity to take the stand as a privateist so that we might have a chance to clarify these issues? Now I know that the chairman of the Danish People's Party is more experienced as a negotiator than I am, but it is hardly the case that the Liberal Alliance has reopened the financial law agreement free of charge and said: we will help find the funding elsewhere. It would surprise me, I would say, and one does not write into a paper in an agreement with several elements, that one of the elements just does not apply; that is what the Liberal Alliance got. But it can all be clarified if we put the President in the Chair. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200712	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200714	Yes, that is very correct, and I agree with and would like to repeat the call. One should not have followed the political commentator school for very long to understand what is going on, of course, when the Danish People's Party is in trouble and for the eleventh hour one has to have changed something in the Finance Act. Then it costs something. The party against the compensatory tax at that time, like so many other socially correct measures, was, of course, in the Liberal Alliance. What you have to understand is that they have taken as a payment is that the amount of compensation tax on pensions should be discussed by 2020. I guess it's hard to understand it as anything other than that it was so payment that something has to be put down there. How to pay that bill, we don't know. Whether this will increase the imbalance even further, we also need to get precise answers, but please, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl get on the platform. I didn't understand if he nodded before, but we'll see in a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200809	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200812	Just briefly: how, after this debate we have had, does the rapporteur assess the ordinary low-income old-age pensionist who is out there now? Is it the case that the rapporteur believes that such clarity and security have been created over the economic situation in the future, or is it perhaps with a slightly more worried feeling in your stomach?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200839	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200841	The only thing I am told in my mailbox and in others that I am talking to is an insecurity and a lack of clarity about what is going to happen, but what remains, even after this agreement on clarification of the financial regulation, is of course an insecurity about how pensioners with low incomes, like 95%. the housing allowance is paid out to, will be affected. On the other hand, the only uncertainty one can have as a wealthy pensioner is shown how much one must take into account in return for the fact that the Danish People's Party had postponed this problem. It is an agreement to clarify the financial law agreement, and I do not think we have the impression here that it is quite exactly what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200926	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216200929	Thank you. You get more and more confused as time goes by. Not so long ago, sir. Ole Birk Olesen on the platform and explained to us that the Danish People's Party had got something in the Finance Act agreement. It is, of course, nice to have the Liberal Alliance make sure that the Danish People's Party was actually present in the room, because you become a little in doubt. So, first of all, we have been revealed here over the last few days that the Danish People's Party and the government have understood the agreement that has been reached quite differently, and then the Danish People's Party's rapporteur has stood up there and explained to us all that we have almost been cheated. Therefore, I just want to ask the privateist whether the privateist can confirm that it is a little difficult for us and probably also for those who are looking at this, to understand that yes, you have written an agreement, but it sounds as if you have understood it very differently. The Minister for Finance and the rapporteur for the Left say that there is an agreement, that you find that revenue and that it will be all right. The chairman of the Danish People's Party says to DR kl. 18.12: Well, we're looking to find the money in the area, and then we'll see if that's possible. Is it not two different interpretations of the agreement reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201041	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201042	As someone who has followed what the Minister of Finance and since the Danish People's Party have said, one can only have the experience that different things are being said again today. And I guess the best way to figure out exactly what has been said around the table is still that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will come up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201100	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201101	So, as I know, we are using this debate to sort out the content of the financial agreement that has been concluded and the amendments that have been tabled. I don't think we're getting any smarter. We've just gotten a lot more confused. Yes, the Minister of Finance confirms that. I also think the Minister for Finance is confused, and that is why I hope that the privateist will succeed in his call for the Danish People's Party to go to the platform and perhaps make us all a little smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201137	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201138	Yes, I agree. Last night it was apparently a presence in the Opera that made it impossible to attend Parliament. Perhaps you should have been there, but now you have the chance here from the platform in a moment, hopefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201159	It was then the three brief remarks that were room for the privateist. Then we have another privateist, and that's Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go, sir. Hideous place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201230	Thank you very, very much. One could almost say while we are waiting for Godot, but while we are waiting for the chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, takes courage and comes to the platform, then I can fill the waiting by talking about a few other things. Perhaps we could also call on the Liberal Alliance, which, after all, has also been involved in the last many speeches, to take the floor and perhaps contribute to some clarification, so that we can try to cut through the confusion which has spread at a very high level. I would have actually used my privateist post • It is now quite inappropriate to continue the exchange I had earlier on the day with the Danish People's Party's Financial Rapporteur, about the Storstrøm Bridge, and that is, of course, because it is true many of those who live in, let's just call them the South Sea Islands, at heart. What happens if the bridge breaks down? We have seen a little in the past that the whole train traffic is cut off, and what do you do if you are dependent on commuting back and forth to Lolland-Falster? The rapporteur used it as an argument that it was included in the agreements and that it was a priority. But it's as if it's air castles and wind fries, because there's nothing else, and we can just note that the deployment of the Storstrøm Bridge has been postponed to 2024 instead of the original planned • 2021. We find that very regrettable, and when I mention it, it is of course because the Enhedslisten has actually tabled an amendment in this area, in which we are bringing forward the deployment of the Storstrøm Bridge to 2021, in other words, according to the old plan. I think it would dress the local MFs from Lolland-Falster, who have been involved in the financial negotiations and had the bridge postponed, but who otherwise takes a great deal of action locally to fight for the Storstrøm Bridge. I cannot agree with the fact that it is being postponed at the same time. However, it would suit these MFs to vote in favour of the Enhedslisten amendments, because this is, after all, a vital link. Well, I would not have said that at all, because I think there is another thing that is also pressing and that has not been part of the financial law debate at all, and that is the whole fight against social dumping. This is something that is very, very dear to the Enhedslisten and has a clear top priority for the Enhedslisten, and we must note that the fight against social dumping in connection with this financial law is also deteriorating. It will certainly be cut by 30 million. I would also like to point out that exactly the measures taken to combat illegal cabotage have been reduced by 10 million. kr. from 2015 on the Finance Act we entered into with the previous government and to the new Finance Act. We find this extremely regrettable and untimely, that is to say, that we are starting to relax our efforts to combat social dumping, and I do not think that this is quite the same as the fact that the Danish People's Party, which is, after all, one of the conciliation parties behind the Finance Act, is trying to make a great deal of progress when it comes to combating social dumping, especially when social dumping is linked to illegal cabotage on our roads. So I can't get that to hang together at all, i.e. how the Danish People's Party can defend having agreed to reduce the fight against social dumping. This is something that emerges from an answer we received from the Ministry of Employment here on 7 December, and it is quite clear that what I have just referred to is what has happened. I would like the chairman of the Danish People's Party to take it in the same way if he went to the platform and then tried to clarify the confusion if otherwise there could be time for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201703	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. We have another privateist, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201722	Frankly, I think it is a mistake to make a financial law on which we can, of course, disagree politically, but which is clearly a financial law which those who enter into agreements on it do not really know or agree on what it means. Sir. Anders Samuelsen wrote on his facebook page yesterday: Finally, a showdown with the petty treasure. Thus, the compensatory tax is meant here. When we ask the Minister for Finance whether looking at the compensatory tax means that something has to be done about it, that it has to be lowered, the Minister for Finance says: yes. When we hear from the rapporteur from the Left, he has obviously not heard what the Minister for Finance has said; he is at least saying the opposite. When we hear from Mr. Knox... Kristian Thulesen Dahl, he says: No, it doesn't matter that you should look at it. These are completely contradictory reports. And whether or not you can politically disagree on a financial law, the people whose lives we affect in here with our actions have a right to know what is going to happen if DF has paid the price twice. First there's this mess around the housing benefits that's going to mean the world to those who don't have much. And then you pay me God help once more to postpone the problem, by saying to the Liberal Alliance: yes, then you will have a fight with the spoiled special tax. I think that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl should come on the platform and once and for all explain to the Folketing and the citizens out there what has been agreed in the Finance Act. We may disagree, but there will have to be clarity. The second is simply unreasonable. This is going to affect ordinary people's lives to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216201929	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. I should like to ask if there are any more who wish to speak. There isn't. As this is not the case, the debate is closed. And before we start the vote, we'll take a short break. The sitting will be suspended and resumed at 1 p.m. Twenty-thirty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216203023	The sitting is resumed. There are two further reviews in the meeting today: Minister for Employment (Jørn Neergaard Larsen): Bill no. L 88 (Law repealing the law on maternity compensation for selfemployed persons) and Bill No. L 89 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on equal pay for men and women. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151216203051	We shall then proceed to the vote on the amendments to the draft budget. To section 6. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: One by the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 362 of ALT, and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 14 (EL and ALT), against 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, KF and IA), [no votes for or against 5 (SF and 1 (EL) by mistake) ]. The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 363 by Mr EL as rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 364 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), [for or against voting 30 (S and IA) ]. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 365 of the SF. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 30 (S and IA) ]. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 86 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), [no votes in favour or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), [no votes in favour or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 by the Minister for Finance, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), [no votes in favour or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 by the Minister for Finance and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), [no votes in favour or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 by the Minister for Finance and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), [no votes in favour or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Nine by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), [no votes in favour or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10 of the Minister for Finance, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), [no votes in favour or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 366 of the SF and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 25 votes (EL, ALT, RV, SF and IA), against 55 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 by the Minister for Finance and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 12 by the Minister for Finance and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 by the Minister for Finance, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 by the Minister for Finance and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal is adopted. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 15 of the Minister for Finance, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 16 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 17 of the Minister for Finance, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 18-35 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 8. Ministry of Business and Growth. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 367 SF as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 36, 37 and 435 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 368 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 38-48 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Article 9. Department of Taxation. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 369 of the SF as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 49 and 50 of the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 370 of the SF and voting is possible. The vote is closed. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 30 abstentions (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 51 of the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. For section 11. Ministry of Justice. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 52 of the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 371 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 14 (EL and RV), against 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, SF and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 53-57 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To paragraph 12. Department of Defense. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 58-61 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 372 by Mr EL as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 62 and 63 of the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To section 14. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 64-77, 436-438, 81, 439, 440 and 83-94 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. I'm gonna have to ask for a little bit of quiet. I'm gonna ask for a little bit of quiet down here. It's distracting! Thank you. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 95 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 30 (S and IA). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 96 and 97 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 373 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 98 by the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. For section 15. Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 99-126 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 374 by Mr EL as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 375 of EL and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 19 (EL, ALT, SF) voted against 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 441 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 376 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 87 (DF, S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (SF and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 442 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 377 by Mr EL and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 13 (EL and SF), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 127 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. To Article 16. Ministry of Health and the Elderly. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 128-138 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 378 of the SF, and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV (by mistake) and KF), abstentions 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 139-161 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 379 of the SF and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV (by mistake) and KF), abstentions 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 162-172 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To paragraph 17. Ministry of Employment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 173 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 380 of the SF and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 508 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 509 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 30 (S and IA). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 176 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 382 of the SF, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 381 by Mr EL as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 177-188, 443, 190, 444, 191 and 445 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 446 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 30 (S and IA). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 193 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 60 (DF, V, LA, ALT and KF), against 47 (S, EL, RV and SF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 194-198, 447, 200-207, 448, 449 and 210-223 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 383 of the SF, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 225 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 30 (S and IA). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 226-230 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 19. Ministry of Education and Research. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 384 by Mr EL and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 385 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 386 by Mr SF as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 231-247, 460-452, 250 and 251 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Article 20. Ministry of Children, Education and Gender Equality. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 252 by the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 387 by Mr EL and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 388 of the RV and the vote is closed. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 389 of the SF rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 253 by the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 390 of the SF, and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 391 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 30 abstentions (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 254-256 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 392 of the SF and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 257-292 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 21. Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 293 and 294 of the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 393 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT, SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 29 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 394 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 395 by Mr EL as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 295-306 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 22. Church Department. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 307 of the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. To section 24. Ministry of Environment and Food. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 396 by Mr EL as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 397 by S, EL, ALT, RV and SF, and voting is possible. The vote is closed. in writing. - 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained on 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 308-316 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 398 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 317 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. To section 28. Ministry of Transport and Building. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 318 and 319 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 399 of the SF, and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 320 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 400 of Enhedslisten, and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 321-329 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 29. The Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 330-332, 453, 333 and 454 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 401 of AL, and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 334 and 335 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 402 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 14 votes (EL and ALT), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (SF and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 403 of S, EL, ALT, RV and SF, and can be voted. in writing. - 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 336 by the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 404 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 405 of S, EL, ALT, RV and SF, and voting is possible. in writing. - 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF, abstained 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. General reserves. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 406 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 337-346, 455, 347-354 and 510 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 407 and 408 by Mr EL as rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 409 of Everything that can be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 410 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (SF and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 411 of S, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 412 of the S, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 48 (S, EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 413 of S, and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 48 (S, EL, ALT and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 414 of S, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 43 (S, EL and RV), against 66 (DF, V, LA, ALT, SF and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 415 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 416 by Mr RV. The vote is closed. For 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF) against 56 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 30 abstentions (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 417 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 418 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions: 30 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 419 of Everything that can be voted. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 54 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 28 abstentions (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. For paragraph 37. Interest. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 457-468 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 38. Taxes and charges. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 420 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 421 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 6 (ALT), against 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF) abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 422 by Mr EL as rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 423 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 14 (EL and RV), against 66 (DF, V, LA, ALT, SF and KF), abstentions 29 (S and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 469 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 356 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 43 (S, EL and ALT), abstentions 5 (SF and IA). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 470 by the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 424 by EL and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (SF and IA). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 425 of the SF as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 472-474 and 511 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 426 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions were 5 (SF (by mistake) and IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 475-478 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 427 of ALT, and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 20 (EL, ALT and RV), against 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 5 (SF and IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 428 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 85 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 479 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 60 (DF, V, LA, SF (by mistake) and KF) voted against 20 (EL, ALT, RV (by mistake)) abstentions 30 (S and IA). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 480 and 481 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 431 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 432 by Mr EL as rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 433 of ALT and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 434 of the RV that can be voted. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 482-489 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 40. Reloans etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 490-498 and 361 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 41. Stock movements, etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 499-504 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 42. Net government debt write-offs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 505, 506 and 512 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. That concludes the vote on the amendments. I propose that the examination of the draft budget be stopped and that the draft law be referred back to the Committee on Finance. Are there any objections to this proposal? It's agreed. The proceedings shall then be suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20151216211255	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 17 December 2015, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
