ParlaMint-DK_20151006120002	The meeting is open. According to section 36 of the Constitution, the parliamentary year starts on the first Tuesday of October at 6 pm. 12.00 to the same day and time next year. As the Member who has long since been in the Chamber, it is my job to direct the election of the Bureau and Secretaries so that the parliamentary work can begin.
ParlaMint-DK_20151006120032	As chairman, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and Siumut have stopped Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no other recommendations and, if no one requests a vote, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151006120058	For the first Vice-President, the Social Democratic Group has appointed Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt. For the second Vice-President, the Left Group has appointed Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. For the third Vice-President, Mrs Stine Brix has been appointed by the Enhedslisten's group. And to the fourth Vice-President, the Liberal Alliance has appointed Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151006120120	According to the constitution of the constituent electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Mrs Karen J. Klint (S), Mr. Benny Engelbrecht (S), Mr. Bent Bøgsted (DF) and Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V). This is the way things are set, and I would ask the President to come up and take the chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20151006120208	I would like to thank you very much for the confidence that the Danish Parliament has shown me here by re-electing me as President. It is a very great honour, and I go to the task of the most profound humility. Together with my colleagues in the Bureau, I will make every effort to share the sun and the wind in the best possible way and to be the chairman and representative of all parties, regardless of party colour. It is my hope that I can lead the work in here in such a way that openness, respect and trust become common denominators. I look forward to a new season with my colleagues in this Chamber and to working with all the talented people who have their daily work here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151006120251	Then I'd like to welcome our guests today. Welcome to Her Majesty the Queen, to Hans Royal Highness the Princess, to Hans Royal Highness the Crown Prince, to Her Royal Highness the Crown Princess, to Hans Royal Highness Prince Joachim, to Her Royal Highness Princess Marie and to Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte. Also warmly welcome to the representatives of the Supreme Court, the President of Greenland's Inatsisartut and the President of Greenland's Naalakkersuisut, the Chair of the Faroe Islands' Latting and the Faroe Islands' Layerman, as well as to the Mayor of Copenhagen. I take this opportunity to send Parliament's greetings on this day to Greenland's Inatsisartut and the Faroe Islands' Lating.
ParlaMint-DK_20151006120358	I shall now pass on the floor to the Prime Minister so that he can give the statement provided for in the Constitution on the general position of the Kingdom and the measures envisaged by the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151006120431	Denmark is a lovely country and one of the best in the world. I think we Danes can agree on that quickly. For generations we have created a very special spot on the globe of freedom, prosperity and harmony. We are proud of who we are, and we have good reason to do so. But we must also be honest that we have not solved all the problems. There are things we can do better, and there are things we need to do better, even in one of the world's best countries. We have built our society on equal value, on trust in each other and on respect for the individual. That is what makes Denmark Denmark, a society that is connected, the country that we all love. But when growth is concentrated in the larger cities, Denmark can be divided into two, and then we risk a Denmark that is not linked geographically. When children grow up in parallel societies, where equality and freedom are neglected, we risk a Denmark that is not related to value. When the profits of working are too small and too many are supported by the public, we risk a Denmark that is not economically linked. And when not enough private jobs are created, the economy is not linked either, because the money for welfare can come from only one place: from our businesses. Denmark is a small country in a large world and we depend on what happens outside our borders. But we have to decide for ourselves what kind of country we are. I want a Denmark that is linked geographically, in terms of value, economically and humanly. Denmark and Europe are in an extraordinary situation. Our borders are under pressure. Our borders are under double pressure, partly from migrants who are seeking away from poverty, partly from people fleeing war and destruction, often in conditions so harsh that we can barely accommodate them: families in sink boats, people piled together in trucks, children and adults at the mercy of cynical traffickers. It's deeply unhappy. Denmark has a responsibility to help people flee. But we also have a responsibility to ensure that our country is linked. We must speak openly about the fact that there is a difference between refugee and economic migrant, because we can never manage a migration carried by the desire for a better life, however understandable that desire may be. We need to keep our heads cold and our hearts warm. There are no easy solutions, but I believe that we have realistic opportunities if we see the world as it is. Firstly, it is clear that Europe must control the flow. It is no use leaving Europe's borders open and only talking about distributing the people who come in. We must tackle the root of the problem and we in Denmark do our part. The government is selling 750 million dollars. kr. for e.g. assistance in the neighbourhoods. When we help refugees close to home, we can help more and fewer people are driven on a dangerous journey towards Europe. Secondly, the EU should not decide how many asylum seekers Denmark accepts. We stand and will remain outside the EU's common asylum and immigration policy, even after the referendum of 3 December. Thirdly, the government is pursuing a strict immigration policy. We have already introduced a new integration benefit. To put it bluntly, it makes it less attractive to come to Denmark. We will tighten the requirements for family reunification and we will tighten the rules for permanent residence. We are doing all this because we think it is fair and because the conditions in Denmark affect how many people seek asylum. That recognition is gradually spreading and I am convinced that the number has that view, fortunately, I also share with more and more people. Fourthly, we must be honest that the new refugees are challenging integration. Whether you think that there are too many or too few refugees coming to the country, the government believes that there are too many refugees in Denmark and refugees are coming to Denmark. Integration has so far failed. After 1 year in Denmark, only one in ten refugees are in work or in education. It's depressing. After four years, it's only a third. It's sad. And of all immigrants from non-western countries, not even half are at work, although many have been here for 10, 20 or 30 years. That is deeply, deeply regrettable. We have to do better, much better. After all, I welcome all the goodwill that has been set free in recent weeks. It is in the companies, in the community, among the thousands of Danes who have volunteered. Now we must seize the goodwill. In addition to the fine words, the warm feelings and the many likes on Facebook. We must commit each other to action, even further forward. Around the turn of the year, the government will present a new integration programme. The aim is that refugees who have been granted asylum should enter a business as soon as possible and that at the same time they should learn to speak Danish. We must cut back on paperwork and instead use our energy to make integration work, because Denmark must be linked economically, socially and culturally. The great pressure on Europe's borders is rooted in complex conflicts and poor living conditions. The world has moved closer, and Denmark must continue to engage where we can make the most difference. Fortunately, we are not alone. We work with other countries. We are part of the European Union's efforts. That is why we ourselves do not need to be present everywhere. We need to focus our development aid where it serves our interests, where we promote the values we believe in and where we fight the cause of poverty and migration. Both the EU and Denmark must demand that the countries from which migrants come take their own citizens back when they cannot legally reside here. Denmark participates in the international action against the terrorist movement ISIL in Iraq. We do not stand idly by when ISIL is brutally attacking the local population and waging a war of terror against us. The Danish pilots, the mechanics and the other staff, like everyone else who has been sent out in Danish service, have done their job excellently. Now they get a much needed break at home. But when we send out the planes again, the government is open to looking at a broader mandate for the Danish effort. I hope that the Danish Parliament is prepared to back us up so that we can be where we are most useful, including with our fighter planes. Terror is an evil we must continue to fight. The goal is peace and prosperity, so that families are not forced to flee, but can live in their own country. I'm proud of Denmark. It is a country that takes responsibility in the world that helps people in need and that upholds the values that bind us together. My government has been given the task and therefore the responsibility of leading Denmark and, like any new government, we are given the responsibility to lead the country from where it stands. That is why we have made a check-up on the public economy, and the result is clear: before the election a picture was drawn, unfortunately the picture is different. There is less money than we hoped and thought; there is less money for a new policy. The economy had gone to the extreme limit of the budget law, the check-up showed that it had gone too far. There should be a safety margin. There wasn't before; there is now. As a new government, it is our job to get Denmark back on track. That means we have 5 billion. kr. less for next year. We must give strong priority to this, it is absolutely necessary. The government has chosen to spend less money on development aid, but still meets the UN's objective; to spend less money on research, but still meets the EU's objective; to streamline education, but still lies at the very top of the countries that invest most in education. Why are we doing this? Because we will honour the promises on which we went to the polls. More money for health, a strong police force, opportunities for growth throughout Denmark and a housing job scheme. We promised that before the elections; we will do so after the elections. But the money has to vote, Denmark has to hang together financially. The Danish economy is quietly on its way after the crisis. But it doesn't go very well everywhere. The progress has best got hold of the capital and large parts of East Jutland. Before, the young people moved from Copenhagen when they formed a family. Now many stay, so things are going well in Copenhagen and in the Triangle area and in Aarhus, where there is a job to get. In smaller cities, businesses close, families move, shops close down. I think it is sad if Denmark is divided into development and dismantling. It is not only sad for those parts of the country where progress is difficult to see, but sad for the whole of Denmark. Because I'm convinced we need each other. We cannot and must not slow down where things are going. But we must and can give the whole of Denmark the opportunity to develop as well. It is not simple, because reality is complicated, so we have to do many different things. We have decided to carry out the largest overall relocation of state jobs ever. We're moving around 3,900 state jobs. It is about fairness, because the state serves the whole country, and therefore the state must also be present throughout the country. And it's about creating activity where it's needed. A total of 38 cities get new state jobs, and I wonder if the view of the government's decision depends a little on where it comes from? I am fully aware that it can cause problems when we move thousands of jobs. It affects many people and their families. That should not be taken too lightly. And there is practical work to be done. Creating new jobs and ensuring normal operation will be a huge task. However, I am also fully aware that relocation means a great deal to those places where new state jobs are being created. Last Thursday, I got an email from Brigitte from Næstved. She wrote briefly and well, and I quote: thank you from the heart. It means infinitely much to our city. It's the Foreign Affairs Agency that's moving to Næstved with 375 jobs. For me, it is a bottom-up task to distribute state jobs more evenly across the country. Let me also mention private jobs. The government will also improve the conditions of private companies to create jobs, growth and prosperity throughout Denmark. We make a living producing and providing services. We are very strong in the area of e.g.: The pharmaceutical industry and the green sector. We're energy efficient, we're resourceful, we're creative. These are all forces on which we must build with realism. Because we should not make more stringent demands on our own companies than the Germans or the Swedes make on their own. That is why we are putting an end to the over-implementation of EU rules. We are starting to improve the conditions for generational change. We want to remove the advertising tax. We will remove NO x We will make everyday life easier for companies. As a general rule, therefore, occupational legislation can only enter into force twice a year: on 1 January and on 1 July. And we will do something special for the many food companies. Denmark's agriculture, dairies and slaughterhouses, yes, the entire Danish food sector produces some of the world's safest and best food. They are leading export markets, creating tens of thousands of jobs across the country. And Denmark needs an even stronger food sector. It cannot be right that Danish agriculture should have lower yields or lower cereal quality than our neighbours, because it must not be fertilised enough. Danish agriculture and thus the whole food sector must be a competitive profession. That will be the aim of the agricultural and food package that we will be publishing before Christmas. A freer planning law is also an important part of the government's strategy to create growth throughout Denmark. Today, there are many examples of the law of plans standing in the way of development. Several cities cannot expand because they lie where they lie, namely on the coast, and so many Danish cities do. Abandoned buildings stand empty, they must have a new life, even when they are located in the land zone, and it is illogical that the law spreads for people who would like to live in a village, since now the depopulation of the villages is a widely recognised problem. In the municipality of Mariagerfjord, two years ago, some citizens wanted to buy land and build new ones on the outskirts of the village Rold. It couldn't be done. This is not possible according to the rules in force, because it is urban development in the open country, and it is considered to be contrary to state interests. As I see it, it is the law that conflicts with the interests of citizens, the village, the municipality and Denmark. We want to give the municipalities more freedom. This is a great wish in many municipalities. At the same time, incomprehensible rules must be stopped. Garden owners along the coast should not ask permission to set up a bed or a swing stand. And why are some people not allowed to build a shed for a sea kayak? Well, I have the principle that the law should be understood. Anything else is a lack of respect for citizens. The government is shortly putting forward a proposal for a freer and fairer planning law so that municipalities, businesses and citizens will have better opportunities to create the development and growth that is so much needed and so desired outside the large cities. I want a Denmark where we choose how we will live our lives, and many people are actually happy to live with high to heaven, with fresh air in our lungs and a close neighbourhood. We must give the freedom to do so. I want a Denmark that is geographically linked. Without jobs, no wealth; without wealth, no welfare; and without welfare, Denmark is not socially connected. We have a community that helps those who need it, and one of the pillars of our welfare society is the right to free and equal health. We have a good health service, but we need to do it even better. When you look at a Danish map, you can see that the chances of good and quick treatment are greater in some parts of the country than in others. We must overcome these differences. All five regions in Denmark must show that they can deliver high quality to citizens. The treatment you receive should not depend on where in the country you live, nor should it depend on your wallet. If you are ill, it is crucial that you are quickly told what is wrong with you so that you can be treated and hopefully get well again. It must be a right for everyone regardless of income. Today, the Danes have a 30-day right of investigation, but in practice it does not hold up for all patients, and what do they do? Well, if you can afford it, you can seek help at a private hospital if you can afford it. I will not accept that inequality in health. We should not have an A-team and a B-team, and therefore we will give all Danes, whether they suffer from a physical or a mental illness, the right that if the government cannot provide within 30 days after referral to a hospital, then they can go somewhere else without the Dankort having to appear. When you're told what's wrong with you and needs to be treated, we'll use the same principle. If the waiting time in the public hospital is more than 30 days, we are entitled to private treatment, because the most important thing is man, not the system. The most important thing is the quality we get, not where the doctor is employed. Good and safe health is of particular importance to one group of citizens, the elderly. Last month I spoke to Olaf Sørensen in 83 years. He was hip-operated in May and was in intensive care for 40 days due to complications. It weakens every human being and especially a 83 - year - old man. But when I met Olaf, he was in a high mood and of good courage. In only 8 days he had learned to get up from his wheelchair and walk himself completely without holding the rail. Olaf and I met at Aalborg Rehabilitation Center. Here the staff make a huge effort to help people to help themselves, and according to Aalborg Municipality rehabilitation is not only good for Olaf and the others, it is also a good business. The citizen needs far less help from the municipality when he or she is back home. See, that example must be taken with us when we have to solve the problems in the medical departments. Unnecessary admissions; too many re-hospitals; patients who do not come home even if they are finished; older people who must lie in a hospital; it is unworthy. None of us want that for our parents or grandparents. The government will reduce the number of unnecessary admissions of older medical patients. We will give more money for quality and prevention in general practice and municipalities, so that fewer people are admitted. This comes on top of the billion extra for health that we have already agreed with the regions; money to go towards increasing costs of hospital medicine, new therapies and more elderly and chronic patients. We are giving a massive boost to health and the elderly as early as next year. Yes, to be precise: a boost of 2.4 billion. kr., because that's what we promised the voters before the election. Denmark is a safe country, and there is to a particular extent a group of people who are important to our security. I get warmed up when Danish officers calm down perplexed families, use words before physical power, bring out the smile of children who have experienced things they should be spared from. That is why I would like to thank the Danish police. You act with proper respect when you welcome refugees and migrants on Denmark's borders, and I am grateful for the professional efforts you made during and after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen. Everyone knows the police are under pressure. A broad majority in the Folketing has secured an extra grant this year, we did so before the elections, and we have provided funds to remove the huge hump of overtime, we did so after the elections. In the autumn, we will then have to reach a political agreement on the conditions of the police in the coming years. The government wants a strong and visible police force across the country. They must have the tools and resources they need. We will also ensure that the police can cooperate effectively with colleagues in other countries. That is why, on 3 December, the Danes will vote to convert the reservation of law into an opt-in system. With an optional system, Denmark can decide for itself which parts of the EU's judicial cooperation we wish to participate in. This means more and not less self-determination in Denmark. With an opt-in system, we will ensure that Denmark can remain a full member of European police cooperation Europol. This is absolutely essential for catching and punishing traffickers, drug dealers, thieves and other criminals operating across borders. And police cooperation also proves its worth in the current situation of many refugees and migrants. Europol provides information on the pressure on the borders of Denmark and Europe, and they make efforts to combat traffickers. They are an important part of the effort to control the influx. A yes on 3 December is a yes for Denmark to remain in European police cooperation. A yes on 3 December is not crystal clear from the broad Europol agreement that Danish immigration policy must continue to be established in Denmark, and this also applies after a 'yes' to the electoral system. Therefore, I would like to call on all parties to discuss in the autumn debate what the 3 December vote is about, and not what it is not about. It does not act here is outside Denmark, and we must continue to do so; we ourselves decide our foreign policy. It should really be simple enough. The 'yes' parties behind the Europol agreement have given each other mutual veto rights on that part. Yet it may seem a bit that someone is trying to draw a false picture that we are going down a slippery slope. We're not. In order to avoid any doubt on the ground, I would like to stress today that if at any time a majority in the Folketing wishes Denmark to participate in the common European asylum policy, then my position is quite clear: we will not lift our veto without asking the Danes in a new referendum. I would like to guarantee that here today. In the Kingdom Community, we have a solid tradition of discussing problems openly and finding solutions together. I look forward to working with the new government in the Faroe Islands and with the national government in Greenland. The Faroe Islands and Greenland want to work with their own constitutions. The government understands this, and we are happy to discuss the issue with the governors of the states.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is a difference between the economic situation of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but both countries face major economic challenges in the slightly longer term. Denmark is happy to step in with advice and administrative assistance if the Faroe Islands or Greenland so wish. We must break down the obstacles to the mobility of citizens and companies between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, because then we will strengthen the Kingdom community, and this is an important matter on which we work together. The case of the service contract at Thulebasen means a lot to both Greenland and Denmark, and the government gives it priority. We are working on Thulebasen to the greatest extent possible to benefit Greenland, and we are working closely with the national government on the matter. I also want close cooperation in the Kingdom Community and in the Nordic countries on developments in the Arctic and on our joint work in the Arctic. Arctic Council. There is a great international focus on the new opportunities and challenges in the Arctic. Denmark is the country of opportunity. It must also be for the next generation. And the main road to good opportunities goes through good education for all young people. Together with a broad majority, we have adopted a good reform of primary schools, a reform in which all children must become as skilled as they can possibly be. Together we have created a reform of vocational training, a reform which must restore prestige by becoming skilled, because we need them. In fact, we need many more of them. And it is the Government's ambition that next year we will strengthen the colleges with a reform that raises the professional level and targets the colleges to what is their purpose: solid preparation for further education. But it is not enough for us to look at youth education in this way one by one. We also need to look at them under one. Today there are far too many young people who fall out or choose wrong. Some are turned back to work, others continue with an education that they may not be able to use or want to use. We must tackle detours and impasses in education. I also think it is time for us to have a stronger focus on the young people who fall through completely, those who never get a youth education. It is amazing to face the light of a boy who has had defeat on defeat so suddenly to discover that he too can stand on toes and reach up and seize a success. And it is really very sad that too many young people are not given that opportunity. Today, there is not enough education for those who need a professional boost and better preparation. It can, for example, be done. be a boy who has taken the 10th grade at a post-school and then goes to production school to do something practical and learn more about what he wants. But far from all events are good enough. There are examples of preparatory education that hardly push young people. It's too bad. We have to do something about that. Therefore, the government will set up a group of experts to gather experience and see how we can improve the way from primary school to the right upper secondary education, not just a youth education, but the right youth education, both for the professionally weak and for all the others who go a detour to the education that suits them. We must be able to afford to invest in health. We need to invest in education. And that can only be done if our country is financially linked. Therefore, it is a problem when many live on cash benefits or cash benefits. I'm worried that a lot of people don't have a job. I believe you get a better life by having something to stand up for in the morning. Our country must also be human. I have set this direction: more people have to support themselves, fewer people have to be supported by the public. I think it is fair to get something extra to make an effort. You can take a couple on cash benefits. They're over 30 years old, they have three children. If one gets a job for just over 220,000 kroner. a year, it gives about 1,400 kroner. extra for the family every month. Maybe they're wondering if it's worth it. I can have that concern. The government wants to introduce a ceiling on cash benefits. We will set a clear limit on how much a cash benefit recipient can receive in public service. We ensure that cash benefits recipients will have a significant income increase by taking a full-time job. We will also extend the integration benefit we adopted a short time ago to all those who have only been in Denmark for a few years. This is the first phase of government job reform. When we save money for those who do not work, we free money to put the tax down, especially for those who earn the least. That's fair. It must be worthwhile to work, including for people with small incomes. In addition, the government has an ambition to lower the tax on the last earned crown. That will be the direction in the second phase of our job reform. But before we get there, we're gonna have to discuss cash benefits. Without the unemployment benefit reform and the other reforms that we carried out or took the initiative on last time we were in government, the public funds would be missing 47 billion. kr. a year. So, basically, I believe that the unemployment benefit reform of 2010 is right, but that does not mean that it is perfect. The daily allowance commission will present its recommendations on 19 October and, on that basis, we will start negotiations with the parties of the Folketing. I want an agreement that respects the framework set by the previous government. It is my ambition that we should be able to bring together a solution with broad support so that the rules can be settled. With that part in place, in the new year we will call the social partners for tripartite discussions. How can we create more private jobs? How can our young people get an internship? And how do companies get the employees they need? That is one of the issues we need to discuss. In Denmark, we have had a tradition that employees, employers and politicians together make tripartite agreements on important social issues. It's a good tradition. We'd like to recreate it. Our ability to take responsibility together, our trust in each other, our harmonious society is the Denmark of which we are proud and which we must safeguard. I want a community that is geographically linked and in which the individual has the freedom to live and work throughout the country. I want a Denmark with a strong health service for everyone, no matter where you live and how much money you have. I am in favour of living in a country that is open to those who can and will, where the main road to Denmark is education and work, not asylum and family reunification, and where we are realistic about how many foreigners we can integrate. I strive for a Denmark where we reward those who go to work and do their part and where companies have the freedom to create prosperity and jobs. Today, October 6th, we have been a government for 100 days. Now the work starts, the peace is over. I welcome the fact that, both before the summer break and only yesterday, we have concluded good agreements with all the political parties of the Folketing, except one. We have taken the first steps. Today I have announced the next steps that we will take in the new parliamentary year. But first of all we have set a direction for Denmark for many years to come, a direction for a freer, richer and fairer Denmark. I look forward to working with everyone here in the Danish Parliament and with many other committed Danes, the social partners, the volunteers, yes, everyone who will take responsibility. Let us begin the new parliamentary year by making a living for our country of Denmark. Denmark live!
ParlaMint-DK_20151006124344	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then there is only one thing left in this meeting, namely a review: Minister for Finance (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. 1 (Proposal for a Finance Act for the financial year 2016). The title of the notified case will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (click above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 7 October 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
