ParlaMint-DK_20150129100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Bjarne Corydon): Bill no. L 113 (Proposal for a Law on the Supplementary Grant for 2014). Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill No. L 126 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on Planning. Minister for Health and Prevention (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 127 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health, the Law on the Authorisation of Health Careers and Health Care, the Law on Measures Against Infections and Other Communicable Diseases, and the Law on the Church of the People's Church buildings and cemeteries. Minister for Education (Christine Antorini): Bill No. L 130 (Proposal for a Law on Municipal International Primary Schools). Merete Riisager (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 62 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the elimination of tax on cars, etc.) on the Storebælt Bridge). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 63 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on initiatives to minimise bullying at school). Rosa Lund (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 64 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a better framework for inclusion in primary and lower secondary education). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing Nikolaj Villumsen, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 2 February 2015 onwards he will be able to meet again in Tinget. Bruno Jerup's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129100150	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 19 by Trine Bramsen (S), Camilla Hersom (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, RV, EL, SF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 50 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 19 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 18 by Pia Kjærsgaard (DF, Inger Støjberg (V), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129100414	The debate is open. Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129100452	Well, there you go. You get smarter all the time. I was of the opinion that it was the rapporteur for the proposers first, but then I realized that this is not the case, so I'd better try to make a speech when I'm up here anyway. In fact, we have a motion for a resolution which has a very sensible basis, namely that the Elders Case and others have inspired the Danish People's Party to make a really reasonable proposal about how we actually make sure that we do not end up in a situation where there are elderly dementes in our society who need to come to the doctor and do not have relatives who can help and who are left behind in a situation where they do not get the support and help that is needed. A situation has even been described which is such that it can cause a stone to cry. It is an elderly person who is sent to the hospital and, because he is demented, without really knowing for himself what is going on. Of course, the hospital doesn't know what to do, and the person is then sent back again. After all, it is terrible in every way, of course for the elderly themselves, for the hospital staff who are left in a situation where they cannot help, and for some relatives who cannot then be present, but nevertheless suffer with the person we are talking about here. That is why, of course, there is reason to look at how we, as a society, can avoid ending up in that situation. In fact, there are two ways to go, one might say. One is to look at whether the regulation we have is good enough, whether it does what it needs to do whether it works properly. The second is to ask whether the municipalities or the others responsible are doing what they can. If you start by looking at the regulatory basis, it can be seen that if a municipality has searched an elderly person into a nursing home, the regulatory basis is good enough; then there is an obligation to help the elderly. The care obligation of the nursing home means that the nursing home must provide a companion if the citizen needs it. If we are then in the situation where the elderly live in their own home, then the municipality will have to assess in concrete terms whether there is a need to provide a companion for medical or sick visits. And it is perhaps in reality here where one can fear that there is no certainty that there is the help that is needed. With my knowledge of the municipalities, I have no doubt that it will be possible to find municipalities in addition to the country that provide what makes sure that the home helper is there to ensure that there is the assistance that is needed. However, there are apparently also examples of municipalities where this does not happen, and this then gives reason, as I said, to look at how the municipalities use the rules and whether the rules are good enough. And as I understand it and now it says as if I don't really know anything about it, it's really what the Danish People's Party wants to put on the agenda. And when I say that I know something about it, it is because I have talked to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party about it, and we have, as such, agreed on a very sensible text, which I understand there is a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament who will support. So in this way it can be said that we are fortunately moving into a situation where we in the Danish Parliament find out widely and the Danish People's Party puts it on the agenda • that there is a problem here, and ask if we should try to see if we can handle it. And hopefully that is my ambition today to say: yes, we will look at that; we will look at the regulatory part, and we will look at the administrative part, so that we can ensure that our older fellow citizens have proper and dignified care so that we can secure them in those situations where there are no relatives who will help. After all, this is not about taking and making a problem public, in the sense that the public should take care of it, if it is the case that there are relatives who want to help. This is about helping those who have no other opportunity to get help, and this is about supporting those who have no other opportunity to receive support. That is really the ambition. With this introduction, the conclusion is that we are voting against the motion for a resolution, which, in any case, may sound a little strange, but it is because the structure of this Parliament is such that the motion for a resolution goes to the committee which writes a report which has the content that we have agreed and then we in the government will act on that report. So these are my comments to someone who you can hear, and also relevant issues that are being raised, so that we can help from here to do a little more in the area of dementia. In fact, it can be said that it is actually amazing that as a minister I have no more control over the procedures than I do, but I can see here that I still have time left over, and it should not be in vain, since you have come up here today to hear and discuss this issue so forcefully. That is why there is reason to say that this initiative is on top of a number of other initiatives, for example. the older milliard, which the municipalities have chosen very much to give priority to the very weakest elderly, or the most recent wage-pool negotiations, where we deliberately said together that five initiatives need to be taken here which strengthen efforts for precisely the demented where we set 121.4 million. kr. of, and the element of our health strategy • The sooner the better, which suggests that as a resident at the care centre you will be able to change from the general practitioner and instead have a doctor who is permanently attached to the care centre, which will also solve part of the issue we are discussing today. So with that self-esteem for the government's efforts, which we certainly deserve, I would just like to conclude and say that this is a good initiative. We have had it handled, I think, in which all parties should be able to see themselves, and we can then welcome the fact that today the Folketing is contributing a little bit to pushing it a little in the right direction for some demented, for some elderly people who need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129101217	There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129101221	I have to. First of all, I would like to thank you for the nice words, but when the Minister now praises the government's efforts in this area, I would like to say: on 4 March 2014 they wrote to Bjarne Hastrup from the Elders Case... it is so little unfair, because now we are standing with the Minister for Health... that the Minister for Social Affairs wanted to make contact with KL, which we then also decide after this case. I'm thinking, has this contact been there? Is that something the Minister of Health can answer, because then perhaps there was something left for today to say that something would be done about the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150129101302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129101304	Well, you know, now I was just about to use direct indictment, it's going really, really well today. After all, I would like to put up a question and answer anything that is asked. It is not certain that I can answer them, and in fact I find it a little difficult to answer what the Minister for Social Affairs has been doing for the last 8-9 months. But it is my impression from what I have read about the matter that there is so I have the impression that we are not going to start off on bare ground. But if you want to know exactly what the Minister for Social Affairs has done in this area and in other areas, I would almost recommend asking the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129101357	Mrs. Liselot Blixt, no more? I would like to thank the Minister, and then it is Mrs Anne-Mette-Mette Winther Christiansen as the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129101418	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising this very important debate. In the Left, we consider it really important to treat our demented and weak elderly with respect and responsibility. And the problem that the Danish People's Party raises in this area is precisely that we should be the mouthpiece of someone who cannot even ask for help himself. It is easier to be the mouthpiece of someone who contacts us and asks for help, but here we have to take the lead. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking a debate and lifting it in here, so that we take a position and act in a way that respects the demented and the weak elderly. In the Left we had a discussion, because before we started this debate, we were contacted by the Danish People's Party so that we could relate to how we do after today. I would also like to thank you for the fact that we have already had some assessments of how we can act and, instead of standing here and voting down a resolution, we can, on the contrary, say that we are taking it further into the political work of the committee. And there I think that the Danish People's Party might come up with a proposal for a report that we can write in which we can both impose actions on the government and ourselves which must have a consequence. I was just a little motivated when the Minister was patting himself on the shoulder over the amount of money allocated, and I actually asked for a brief comment. But I ask my question here in the rapporteur's speech, although the Minister cannot answer: has it really been remembered that the Ministry of Health had not set off a single ear to the Knowledge Centre for Dementia when the financial law negotiations started, despite the fact that this is an area where we have a knowledge centre that really has a professionalism that can promise and give us some assessments and answers, but also some actions? I would say, then, that the answer is that, thankfully, the money was found during two stake pool negotiations, so that the Knowledge Centre for Dementia is now being continued for the benefit of all of us. We are very interested in getting the assessments on whether the legislation is adequate and we are also very interested in assessing whether there are any good examples out there that can become common knowledge for everyone, so that is where we are acting. I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they have the same considerations and that they also want us to be able to write a report in committee. So there is a connection from there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129101721	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129101735	See, for us Social Democrats, it is a very fundamental view that our society must be able to do some things, must do some things. And there it is very good to focus on who has the hardest of everyday life here in Denmark, and it is precisely the weak elderly and people who have been affected by dementia. I myself have experience from the emergency room and the emergency reception in relation to exactly what this resolution is about, namely that there are citizens coming in who are not able to tell themselves about their situation, what care and treatment they may be in, and thus I myself have experienced on my own body how unfortunate it is when a treatment system wants to do the best, but does not actually know what the best is to do. And it will be based on assumptions and observations, and it will create an entirely expected insecurity, anxiety and insecurity among citizens, but also for the relatives who are told that their older mother or father, for example, has entered the hospital without anyone being able to accompany them. It must be avoided when it can. It is true that in very many cases there are fortunately relatives, friends, acquaintances who take care to accompany themselves to their own doctor, to a private specialist or to the hospital. But what has been raised as a problem here is those who are actually searched for a municipal service and are either in an elderly centre or living in their own homes. Can they be sure that they will be accompanied in the situations we are talking about here? That is why the motion for a resolution actually strikes such a spot in relation to the fundamental question that is needed in order to find out why there are cases where there is no accompanying action from, for example, the nursing home. It is really important to try to get a sharp look at this and also in this context find out how often it takes place. Is it an isolated case, or is it the case, as the Elders case has told us, namely that it is not so rare to see examples of it. After all, this is a debate, as the Minister for Health also says, which must be based on a dialogue between the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Affairs, but certainly also with regard to the 98 municipalities, which have their own practices out there. It is either a practice that falls within what we would like, or the examples that the Elders case has also highlighted where it goes wrong and there is no escort. That is why, as the Minister says, the right thing to do is to sit down, to discuss, to focus on, and to find out, in that assessment, whether there is anything in the legal complexes that needs to be changed. Because if there is, we have to do it. That is clearly the view of the Social Democrats on this matter. For these are weak citizens who have a difficult everyday life and who do not manage many of the complex things they have done in the past, for example to face a staff in a hospital. Elders The case says that it is common for nursing homes or home care to send demented and other weak elderly people to a doctor or hospital without accompanying them. We need a picture of the scale, and that is what I think has been proposed, by the two ministries and the municipalities joining forces in this. It is also important to say that unfortunately we have many demented in our society, and unfortunately it looks as if the trend is increasing. We currently have about 87,000 citizens over 60 years of age who have had dementia, but if we look at the years ahead, just 10 years up to 2025, then the number appears to have risen to about 115,000. So the problem is there, and that is why we need a system in the municipalities that can meet the needs, so that we have a dignity, respect and security in those situations where there is a need to get into the hospital and where there is no next of kin who can accompany us. As the Minister has said, it is not possible for the governing parties to support this resolution, but we are very pleased that there has been a debate now on how we can land a possible text, and it will now be dealt with in committee afterwards. I think it will ensure that we will have a momentum and a focus on this essential area so that we can ensure respectful and dignified care, treatment and care for all citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129102238	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129102256	I would like to start by thanking Dansk Folkeparti and Liselott Blix for raising the issue of accompanying demented and weak elderly people, because this is an important issue, but also because it gives reason to see whether the practice and administration of applicable rules are as they should be. Because there should be no doubt that the demersal area is an area occupied by the Radical Left. The number of dementias in Denmark is increasing rapidly, and that is, among other things. Because all of us are getting older and older, and that is, of course, pleasing. But it's not enough just to have a life. It is also a question of the quality of the life that you then live. And even if you are living with a dementia disease, you still have a claim to good quality of life, and that includes... In that you get the help that you need as a dementia patient. You very often need help with transportation, but you also need a lot of help to make yourself understandable or even to understand when you have contact with the doctor or hospital, for example. That is why I also think that the text that we have agreed on following up on this resolution is very good, because it focuses precisely on examining practices in this area and examining whether the legislation today is sufficient to ensure a dignified treatment for the elderly and demented during visits to the doctor or hospital. This knowledge is needed, and we in the Radical Left are pleased that such a cover-up is now being put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129102446	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129102506	Thank you. I would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for presenting the proposal. This is an extremely relevant issue which has been going on for a very, very long time. So it's nothing new. It is fine, it is very positive that the scale of the problem will now be examined. It is also nothing new that the number of people with dementia is increasing, it has been doing so for a few years and, unfortunately, that development will also continue in the future. Nor is it new that municipalities and hospitals cannot cooperate, they cannot talk. And that is why there are a great many citizens with dementia who, unfortunately, will be the biggest losers. So it's really positive that we focus on this. But, of course, it annoys me that we are not making a solution right away and starting to find a solution for those people who have that problem. I believe, of course, that for a person who has dementia and who has difficulty in orienting himself and has to contact the health care system, there should be a companion every time. I do not believe that this is the task of the relatives. It is not always the case that the relatives know exactly what to ask about the different forms of treatment. It should be the case that there is a professional coming along who coordinates and helps to ensure that information is not lost, but also that information is passed on. That is why I would have liked us to be able to say right now that these people had to be guaranteed a companion in some way, even if we were still looking into it. It is true that according to the law it is the responsibility of the municipalities, but unfortunately that responsibility has not been taken on in many places, and I think that is really, really, very worrying. I would just like to say to the rapporteur because a compromise has now been reached with the government that it is examining the possibilities that, had it not been, the SF would have voted in favour of the proposal. I would like to say from here that we are very, very positive that something could be done for this group. At the same time, however, I would also like to stress that we are in favour of the joint report which has been prepared, after which the government will now try to investigate, yes, the extent of the problem, what can be done, whether there is anything in the legislation that can be changed. And I hope that together, when that study is clear, regardless of which government is sitting, we still think away what is good for these people and that we are not so concerned about how much it will cost to set up a back-up scheme. Because I think that's just the least you can do for some people who, throughout their lives, have paid taxes and have made this society stick together. However, thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party for highlighting the problem, and thanks to the government for meeting it, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129102818	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129102826	Thank you. This is a highly topical issue, indeed it is not new, but it is still topical. Last spring, a large number of cases with examples of elderly people came into this unfortunate situation that they did not get the companionship they needed to go to a general practitioner or hospital. An example has also been given earlier from up here from the platform of an elderly person who was sent back home without receiving the treatment that he needed and had actually come to receive. So it's really, really good that this issue is being addressed so we can hopefully solve it. On the side of the Enhedslisten, we can easily support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. We have also endorsed the report which has then been prepared in an attempt to see how we are working on it. I would also like to make a few comments on the debate. It has been mentioned that there are two different groups. Firstly, there is the group which lives in an elderly centre or a nursing home where there is some kind of staff attached. There you would think that there was some possibility of escorting, but I think it is extremely important that we are aware that there is a reality in many places that makes it very, very difficult to take an employee out to send him with a person. Just as an example to illustrate this, I can say that the Alzheimer's Association carried out a sample survey where a great deal of places were found where there was only one SOSU present for 25 residents, and then you cannot send one to accompany you. So I think it is very positive if we, as the rapporteur for the Radicals, are to try to find out more about this problem in terms of whether we have the resources to carry out the task that we clearly have when it comes to demented people living in a care centre. Then there is the other group, the group that still lives in its own home. I think it is extremely important that we pay attention not to impose too much on the relatives. It is sometimes referred to as dementia as the illness of the relatives, because being married to or son or daughter of someone who has dementia is so much a burden because it constantly requires that you be present and help him, and it is of course also hard to experience the change that may be when the person you know changes. I think we should pay close attention to this. There is already a very strong tendency for the relatives to take on more and more tasks for the demented, and when it comes to accompanying them, I think we should think very carefully as to whether it is the relatives we see as those who should have the role. The SF's health rapporteur also mentioned this up here. It may actually be a rather complex task to accompany a dement to the hospital. Firstly, he may need some medical assistance along the way, during transport. Secondly, it requires communication of the symptoms, needs that are clear to the staff. This requires that you have knowledge of the medical record and history, and it may well be that as a relative, close family member, you do not want to know all the information that comes with it. So I have to say that it is our view that it should be a health-care companion we are talking about in this area. It will, of course, be a step forward, that there is an accompanying document at all, no doubt about it, but I think we should have the perspective that it is therefore a major burden on the relatives whom we should be careful not to pass on to them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129103200	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129103208	From the Liberal Alliance, I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. The motion for a resolution we are debating here calls for legislation to be put in order so as to make it clear that demented and weak elderly people must always be accompanied to and from doctors, specialists and hospitals. The comments on the motion for a resolution state that the Elders case is regularly approached by relatives of demented and other weak elderly people who have been sent to a doctor or hospital without accompanying them. In my years as a nurse in an emergency ward, I experienced all too often that these weak elderly people simply came with an ambulance without accompanying them. Many may not even be able to tell us what they were called or what was wrong, and I will never forget the fear, misfortune and impotence that I saw with these people when we started our investigations. In those years I often wondered how safe it would have been for these patients if someone they recognized had come with them. And I also often wondered what relief it would have been for us, the hospital staff, if a companion could have told what was the reason for the admission. Therefore, when I became head of a nursing home, it became an absolute rule that we never sent a resident out of the home without someone from the staff being involved in holding them in the hand, and if you are demented or otherwise weakened, there should always be escorts. Against this background, I can inform you that the Liberal Alliance supports the purpose of the resolution and looks forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129103357	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129103407	A year ago, I saw an article headed "Deemente Older People Sent to the Doctor alone. " ▪ So it is such a headline that makes me really uncomfortable, because where is the dignity of our older people now? Today, our family patterns and the labour market do not always make it so easy to be relatives of elderly people affected by dementia or otherwise weakened. Because I am sure that if you have time and you can fit it in, many relatives will also take care to help. It is now always best that it is a next of kin who is recognizable and who knows the citizens' problems that can accompany them. But it is now the case that we can live far apart, perhaps in very different countries, or that working and traffic conditions prevent one from participating. That's why we have a system at home where the municipality has to look after its weak fellow citizens. It is and will be the prime duty of a municipality to provide it. There are older people who are not able to tell what is wrong with them, where they are going, sometimes what they themselves are called. This is unworthy of the elderly, and it causes major problems in the treatment. It is therefore a pity to read that a person with dementia alone is sent to a doctor without hesitation. The newspaper.dk tells about a care center that sent a woman with brain damage and major speech problems alone to an emergency reception at the hospital. The hospital didn't know what the problem was, and the woman was sent back with Falck, who tried to deliver her to a wrong address. It wasn't until the daughter took action that it was discovered that the woman had had a brain hemorrhage. Another story is the story of Steen, who didn't come back from an investigation at the hospital. Steen was 65 years old and had the diagnosis of Alzheimer's. But the care center had sent him alone with Falck for a study after a fall. After several hours he had not returned, his wife was afraid, called his daughter, and the daughter then went to the hospital where she found him in the waiting room. After the investigation, the doctors had taken him to the waiting room and forgot about him. That's when he'd been sitting there for three hours. I think that is unworthy. The elderly and the weak do not have a legal right to have a companion with them. It is up to the individual municipal council to provide that service, which is why we in the Danish People's Party believe it is important that we ensure in here what we so often talk about here from the platform, namely dignity. The dignity must be there the day when you can't remember, and the day when you're so weak that you can't go, and then we'll make sure that a helper comes with when it's that the relatives can't. We are sitting here in all parties, and I guess we all want these things, but we also have a hinterland. And that's where I think it's important that we come back. We should have done that a long time ago, because these stories are from a year ago. But I'm still getting letters from people who say, "That's the way things are still going." I have seen mayors who say: No, we have not been told anything from within the Folketing, and then we just have to DUT'es, and what else it is called; so that is not our job. I simply do not think you are worthy to sit as mayor with that attitude. I'm in a town myself, and I've gone back. I am sitting as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, so it is a little easier to find out what we ourselves are doing. But yes, we have written down in our policy that when someone is sent away who cannot tell himself what's wrong it may be someone who is suffering from dementia or otherwise has a diagnosis that makes it difficult to do so then you ensure that a companion comes with to the extent that relatives cannot help. We have taken many other steps, because there are many gaps in legislation when it comes to people with dementia, for example. If there is someone with dementia who goes for a long walk and cannot find his way back again, then there is a discussion about who should pay the taxi home if someone puts the person into a taxi. There is no legal requirement for this either, but there you can go in as a municipality and say: this is something we take on, and of course we pay the bill. We do, for example. also ensured that we do. That is how you can do things in many ways, and there I think we also have an obligation to go back to our hinterland and say: Well, look, it is you who are chosen to take care of the people who are in your municipality. I hope we do. If nothing else, everyone has at least indicated today that we support the need for something to happen. If this is not done by itself, then I have heard both the Social Democrat rapporteur and the Radicals say that it is necessary to legislate in this area. I'm glad it's the Minister of Health we have here today. As I asked earlier, it is, as such, a matter for the Minister of Social Affairs who has to deal with the municipalities. But since the Minister for Social Affairs has done nothing in the year that has passed, the Minister may say that he has had little contact with KL, but there are no municipalities that have been invited or anything to care for their elderly in this area, I hope and trust that the Minister for Health, by going into this matter, will also ensure that something is done forward. If nothing else, that is what we have done in the parties, because of course we are looking at how much support there is for a proposal, etc., and I think it would be very good if we could all agree that something should be done. That is why we are going back after the first reading and making a report. And that report then describes how the Minister of Health, together with the Minister of Social Affairs and KL, will look at this, preferably as soon as possible. I thought that could happen a little faster by it becoming a story. Instead of perhaps being able to vote through the motion for a resolution by a narrow majority so that it can then be taken up as a legislative proposal and with elections, and I do not know what will come in the course of the year, we will be able to agree on the report very quickly, as I can see the next time we have a meeting of the Committee on Health. Then it's written, and then it's just working on. So I really appreciate what has been said up here from the platform, the statements that have been made. I am also very pleased that the rapporteur on the Left has referred to the funds that we have allocated together in the field of investment pool to the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia, so that we are always aware of what is happening in this area. And I am very pleased, as I said before, that the Social Democrats and the Radicals said that legislation is needed, that is what needs to be done. I am also pleased that everyone has indicated this, regardless of when this election is due. So we have to keep each other up on it, no matter who is in power after an election. I am very pleased that some people said that they would have voted in favour of the proposal. As I said, it was also an opportunity to let it go ahead and vote, but I could fear that it got the thumb down. Then we could start over, and nothing would happen. Then I would like to comment on what was said by the Enhedslisten, which talked about what is being done in those situations where there is only one staff at work. I'd say that most of these stories we hear are about warning times at the doctor's office or at the hospital. When an emergency happens, it can be difficult to say exactly how you react, but in many places you have a temporary arrangement so you can call and get covered. Yes, it costs money, but it has to be affordable. We need to be able to afford it. And that's not where I've heard about problems. It is mainly in connection with the things that have been called for that something is happening. I still believe that a relative will always be the best, because sometimes the demented will become uncertain if you bring someone who you don't know and who doesn't know enough about the person. So the next of kin, the closest one, will always be preferable. But, as I said, when we have a family pattern that we have today, we need some companions. It disturbs when someone's talking, but I think I'm done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129104331	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There was loud talk from the ministerial benches. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129104404	The debate is open. It's sir. Kim Andersen as the rapporteur for the Left, who is here on paper. If not, sir. Kim Andersen is here, we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129104438	Thank you, President. Insurance is essential for the security of citizens and society as a whole. We should not experiment with the security of our citizens, which is why it is important that we have solid insurance companies. Today we are discussing a draft law on the change of financial activity. The draft law is the implementation of the Solvency II and Omnibus II directives. The purpose of the amendment is to provide better protection for insured people. At the same time, we ensure better financial stability. We do so because we must be absolutely sure that the company in which we have taken out insurance is still there if we need it. In recent years, unfortunately, we have seen large fluctuations in the stock markets and this presents challenges for companies, including insurance companies. For insurance companies in particular, more effective capital management has proved necessary. With the Solvency II Directive, we are seeking to harmonise the requirements imposed on insurance companies throughout the European Union. In this way, we align and improve the conditions of competition throughout the European Union. With this law, we also give consumers better protection. We do this by introducing risk-based capital requirements, which means that insurance companies have to take a concrete position on the risks they have and organise their economy accordingly. In this way, we ensure that they are able to comply with what they have promised to customers. The new requirements for insurance companies ensure more effective regulation. This also means that insurance companies should not be unduly burdened. Therefore, the insurance companies are divided into a group 1 and a group 2. We do not compromise on the protection of policy holders, but we allow Group 2 to operate according to simpler rules so as not to burden them unnecessarily. We also extend the requirements for good corporate governance. From now on, it is not only the Board of Directors that has to be assessed by the FSA. We also extend it to assess key people in the company. In the consultations I have noted in particular that Insurance & Pension is positive towards the bill, and I think it is good to hear that the very ones with their members who are directly affected by it here are positive. In conclusion, it is crucial that we as citizens can assure ourselves of many of the risks we face in our lives. It creates security for the individual to know that there is great help to be gained in the event of the accident. The Socialists are working to ensure that we have a solid insurance industry that can support our citizens and society, and this bill supports it. That is why, of course, the Socialists can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129104716	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, then, sir. Kim Andersen has arrived, and we are now taking the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129104738	Yes, we are now dealing with the first reading of L 114, which is, of course, the transposition of two directives, the Solvency II and Omnibus II Directives, into Danish legislation. It is then once again, it might be said, a change in the law on financial activities. It is not many days since we had a different legal procedure here in the Folketing, which also concerned that law, and there I came with a little sigh of heart whether it was now not soon time to have a break and let things settle down and let people out in the real world get a chance to get into all the regulations we are making. But right, this is not the way financial companies in the traditional sense. It is about the insurance companies that we need to regulate. It is clear that there are also some repercussions of the financial crisis on insurance companies. On the one hand, the capital goods which those companies normally serve have become more volatile, as it is expressed in that language than traditional ones, and, finally, there is the fact that most of us are fortunately living longer. That is why there is a greater cover to be taken into account, and this must, of course, be reflected in the framework conditions that we provide to insurance companies. We are therefore in favour of the proposal from the Minister for Business and Growth, which is, of course, about dividing up insurance companies and introducing the new capital requirements in Group 1 and Group 2 respectively, and also about a long, long series of more specific requirements for regulatory reasons, for transparency and for good corporate governance, etc. Having said all this, we are pleased that we have now reached agreement at EU level on this directive, because with the Solvency II and Omnibus II Directives, there are some stricter but also similar capital requirements for insurance companies, and there is a greater focus on the fact that these companies have good corporate governance. Finally, as I indicated earlier, the investment rules for insurance companies are being changed to demonstrate in future what might be called due diligence towards the company's customers and the risks associated with the company's chosen investments. We in the Left are in favour of this because not only are the harmful effects of the financial crisis being taken into account here, but also, as I said, the average life expectancy is increasing, and this must, of course, be reflected in the investments being made and in the pensions to be uncovered. The longer lifespan also has the concrete significance that investments will most often run over longer periods of time and the return will have to be extended over a long period of time. That is why it makes sense for demographic developments to be reflected in the demands we make on the risk management and risk management of insurance companies. We also take note of the premises that have been set up for the funding of the legislative proposal. We believe it is fair and correct that the sector itself contributes financially to the implementation of the regulatory framework. After all, these are rules which, after all, strengthen the sector and thus benefit the sector. However, we have an expectation that the FSA and the Ministry of Business and Growth are in close dialogue on the implementation of the major IT improvements that we can understand from the proposal is a consequence. Then I would also like to note that it is fine and in everyone's interest that we should have uniform rules here at EU level. Finally, I would like to ask, as I asked for the other day, whether the Minister will prompt us to have a note sent to the committee work on what may differ here in the draft law in relation to the two directives referred to. We in the Left are very concerned that we are implementing as closely as possible the EU directive as it is now possible to do, and I would therefore like to ask that we make such a note showing whether this is also the case in this context, or whether there are particular things that have had to be taken into account, or whether we have wanted to take into account, in the context of the legislative proposal, at least in comparison with the two proposals for directives. So far, so good. We are in favour of the proposal and are so constructively involved in the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129105246	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129105255	After all, as others have said before me, the legislative proposal we are discussing here is a legislative proposal which has come into being on the basis of two different EU directives. The Solvency II Directive is, in fact, a directive which was dealt with in committee in the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection back in 2008. It can be said that it is many years that we have to go back in time to find this statement from the European Committee of Parliament that they can support a directive when we are going to have to look at the legal and some changes in relation to the directive that has been outlined so many years later. As an appendix, the omnibus II directive, which is also part of this legislative proposal, has not even been submitted to the European Committee, and therefore there has been no discussion or debate on a possible negotiating mandate with regard to this directive. There, of course, in the Danish People's Party, it is basically a wrong way, a bad premise when there are EU directives that come into Danish legislation as directives, and it is said that we must now have these things implemented, and that is actually a matter that has not been dealt with in committee in the Committee on European Affairs. This is not something new, it is also something that happens at other times. There are also examples of a minister's view that it is not necessary to ask for it to be dealt with in the Committee on European Affairs, and there are also a lot of examples of it being implemented through so-called EU regulations, in which, in practice, EU rules can be introduced into Danish practice legislation. Allow me to make it a little more difficult in relation to this proposal, because, as I said, it is as far back as 2008, the mandate for the Solvency II directive has been given. If you go in and look at the process, you see that it is quite extensive documentation that is behind this bill, and I have allowed myself to go in and look at the individual parts. If you look at section 126 e, pc. 4, on page 5 of the draft law submitted by the Minister, it says the following, and I have to read it out quite slowly, so I regret that it takes some time: Group 1 insurance companies using a matching adjustment according to paragraph 4. or a volatility adjustment in accordance with paragraph 2; 3 shall, in the report on the solvency and financial situation to be published by the company, cf. 2 or 3 to the amount of technical provisions, the Solvency Capital Requirement, the Minimum Capital Requirement, and to the amount of own funds that may be used to cover the Solvency Capital Requirement and the base capital base that may be used to cover the Minimum Capital Requirement. It was just to give an example of some of what is in the bill as we deal with it, it was just a straight paragraph. Fourthly, we have a legislative proposal which contains a whole host of other grounds. We, as elected representatives, are a kind of lay judge; we must start from the law; we must start from what is common sense. We should not be based on cancelli language or official language or pure djøf-writing. But what I read out here, and I think the Minister will acknowledge that, was not Danish, it was just one long sentence without paragraphs, which we shall now have to take a position on here in the Folketing, and there I think it might be interesting if we were to have a little better visibility of what is actually in the proposal. It almost goes without saying that we, as non-lawyers and non-Economists, but elected representatives, do not all have the same opportunity to read and understand such a written submission as is the case here. I also think, of course, particularly in relation to the omnibus II directive, to come back to it, that it is one that has just come through without a negotiating mandate from the European Committee, and it is indeed a directive that gives increased powers to the European Supervisory Authority in relation to the control of Danish securities and the control of occupational pensions in Denmark. I would also like us to have some questions about this in committee, in relation to how much of this will have an impact on our Danish labour market pensions and our law on securities trading in Denmark, in relation to the flexibility that we have at least had so far, and which has been characterised by the fact that we in the Danish Parliament have been able to make both bank packages and everything else in order to enhance and strengthen the credibility of the Danish financial sector in general. So I think we should have these points clarified before we can formally say 'yes' on the part of the Danish People's Party. We think it is a very comprehensive legislative proposal, we think it is a legislative proposal that contains many different things, and we also think it is written in a language that is not very understandable, to put it plainly, and there we might want to try to work to make it better some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129105820	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129105828	Indeed, I would like to admit to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is a large and complex legislative proposal that we are discussing today, and it does not implement less than two EU directives, namely the Solvency II and Omnibus II directives. It is sometimes the case with European legislation that, in order for it to cover all countries, it becomes very technical and very extensive. However, it is also an important point that we have uniform rules in Europe. It is good for competitiveness and for the Danish insurance industry which is pretty regulated that there will be similar requirements elsewhere. For the Radical Left, it has been important to find the right cut between guaranteeing consumers and ensuring the viability of insurance companies without increasing the cost of further insurance. It is a balance which in itself is always difficult and on which one must be very focused. As we see it, the bill contains four things that are crucial. This is among other things. the ability to strengthen the competitiveness and financial stability of insurance companies by making effective capital management requirements. It is also an increase in consumer protection, by means of which, among other things, it is important. is made quite clear that the FSA has the task of looking after the interests of consumers when supervising insurance companies. By looking at the link between capital requirements and the risks taken by the companies, it is ensured that the companies can meet what they have actually promised to customers. In addition, insurance companies are divided into two groups, Group 1 and Group 2, and that is precisely in order to be able to make different demands. Group 1 must live up to everything, and Group 2 must then comply with more simplified national rules. Finally, Group 1 companies have additional requirements not only for management and management, but also for the knowledge, competence and experience of some key persons, simply to ensure that the companies are managed in the best possible way. All in all, the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129110050	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Sanne Rubinke as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129110102	Thank you. I'll say that I'm standing here on behalf of Mr. Knox. Steen Gade, who unfortunately cannot be present. I shall now present the overall views of the SF on the implementation of L 114. For the SF, it is absolutely crucial that we as a society do everything we can not get into excessive economic trouble with speculation and bubbles, as we have seen with the financial crisis and, above all, when the bubbles burst. We learned, among other things, that society must make quite different and stricter demands on the whole financial sector. Effective capital management is needed. The proposal before us is part of the follow-up now in the field of insurance. The SF therefore fully supports the draft law, which, in Danish law, implements the directives in this area that we have jointly adopted in the European Union. This protects policy holders better and strengthens financial stability. This means further strengthening the FSA, a strengthening that SF has long been convinced is necessary. We are also willing to help find the resources needed to ensure that the supervisory activity is as effective as possible. Insurance companies are divided into two groups where the directive is fully implemented for one group, while the other group consists of small national insurance companies which are not covered by the EU directive. But here, too, we believe that improvements are needed. We therefore basically support that part too, but we will, of course, look at the concrete proposals for tightening up to assess whether there are sufficient improvements, assuming that there is no relaxation in relation to the state of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129110243	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129110253	This is, of course, a legislative proposal that is essentially written hand in hand, because it is EU directives that are being implemented and, if we do not implement them, they still apply. This shows a little about the democratic problem we have, namely that the legislation is being implemented far along the way in this area, but also in other areas, so that if there is a debate, it will happen in the Committee on European Affairs, and it will already be decided whether Denmark supports it or not. Sometimes it's not even decided. There it is just the government that says that we support it and then it slips through down in the European Union, and then at some point it is the law in force, without it having been debated at any time in this Chamber. There is therefore a fundamental problem: we can have a debate today, but everyone knows how that debate ends, namely by adopting it because it has already been adopted in the European Union in a way that is binding on Denmark. I would like to say, and it has also just been suggested now, that the role of the Committee of Europe in all these processes, that it sounds very good that in Denmark, which we sometimes boast about in the world, we have a parliamentary control apparatus in the European Committee which takes a position on matters before the government gives a mandate down in the European Union. I myself have been in the Committee on European Affairs for a number of years, and I have to say that it may be somewhat exaggerated how much parliamentary control there is through the Committee on European Affairs. We have suggested earlier on from the Enhedslisten that, at least when we have bigger cases, and this is what we really should start with a debate in Parliament and that the mandate that the government would like to have is formulated in the form of a motion for a resolution and that we then take a position on the motion for a resolution, as regards what the Danish Government is working for in the European Union in that area, for example. as here more control over the financial sector, including insurance companies. Then we could have the debate at a time when the result was not known, but when we entered an active process about what we think things should look like. How it ends up is difficult to say, because since we are with a member of the association called the European Union, we know that there are rules of the game that are very difficult to change. This is one of the reasons why we are so sceptical about the current form of EU cooperation. After all, we are in favour of European cooperation, but not in the undemocratic form it has today via the European Commission and so on. So again we want to say that all important proposals must start in the Parliamentary Chamber, and then it may be that we have a technical process, and then it may also be that it is the European Committee which ultimately says that we have come so far and so far in relation to the opinion expressed by the Danish Parliament. However, there has certainly been a debate and there has been a debate on clear grounds as to what we are going for. One of the things that Insurance & Pension points out in the consultation answers is that the supervisory authority is being transferred from Denmark, namely the FSA, and to EU supervisory authorities. Moreover, the argument that uniform rules are important is also used. But is it certain that it is important to have uniform rules? Is it now certain that it is important that it is one authority in the European Union that decides on the situation of all countries in this kind of case? I don't think anyone in here would think so, if you're asked honestly. For the Danish pension system and Danish insurance are built in a completely different way than in most other countries in Europe, and therefore we should say more that we want to control this ourselves, so we are sure that it is the Danish reality and the wishes of the Danish people that are being met, and not in something that may be adapted to a completely different country in the European Union. It does not seem very reasonable and well-argued to say that a matter is so important that it must be judged on the basis of uniform criteria when the countries are as different as they are. I would just like to conclude by saying that we would like to put a question a little further to the question that came from the Left, namely: to what extent is this mechanical implementation of the directives, and what extent will there be degrees of freedom, so that the Folketing is able to say that it would like to have this in a different way than the EU directives? It is, of course, a pity that we have to ask questions like this, but unfortunately that is what the rules of the game are in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129110804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129110827	As several of the other rapporteurs have mentioned, this is a rather complicated legislative proposal, namely the implementation of the Solvency II and Omnibus II directives in Danish legislation. This is a European regulatory framework aimed at creating common rules within the EU in the insurance sector, while at the same time seeking to improve the risk management of insurance companies. The underlying idea here is to create a better correlation between the risk assumed by the entity and the capital requirements of the entity. The reason is that today the capital requirement for an insurance undertaking does not depend on how risky the insurance company sells. It will then be amended with this directive, which then tries to create a direct link between risk and capital requirements. As other rapporteurs have said, this is a very large legislative proposal on the backs of other legislative proposals in the financial field. When you put forward such legislative proposals, you always do so with the best intentions. Here it is said that it is to protect policy holders, and who could disagree with the protection of policy holders? But you also make it sound like this regulation is free of charge. But, of course, it is not something that is free of charge. There I will refer to the consultation answers from Insurance & Pension, which writes that the administrative costs are enormous and not elucidated. It should be borne in mind that when you make such a comprehensive regulation as you do here, and also in other areas, it costs insured persons. As stated in the consultation answer, the Act on Financial Activities before the legislative changes that we are discussing here contains 438 paragraphs. The Solvency II bill is expected to be supplemented by a regulation as well as by 75 delegated acts. Some acts are expected to be implemented through changes to approx. 15 underlying notices. It's just to illustrate that this is a very complicated substance that's gonna cost the citizens of this society a lot more. There can be no doubt about that. We have a lot of questions about this, among other things. on the basis of the consultation answer provided by Insurance & Pension, and we will ask them, and we will of course look at the answers given before we can finally take a position on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129111137	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129111144	We are in favour of the proposal, which, after all, implements two, rather technical directives, namely the Solvency II Directive and the Omnibus II Directive. This will help to increase the competitiveness of national insurance companies, and it will also increase the protection of policy holders, also in view of the demographic developments currently taking place throughout Northern Europe. So there's a lot of positive effects of this. When you read the consultation answers, you see that what is happening again, and that was also mentioned by the last rapporteur, is that there is a certain discrepancy between what the industry expects from administrative challenges with the proposal and what is stated in the draft legislative proposal's comments and in the response to the draft consultation. At any rate, the industry believes that this will represent enormous administrative challenges, while the administration will belittled a little. We must, of course, cultivate this, and I am quite sure that the Minister himself will be aware that it must be done as easily as possible and administratively as much as possible for the industry. However, I think that there is reason to raise the semi-yellow flag when the industry is so strongly opposed to the administration behind this. But basically, conservatives can easily support the substance and we will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129111311	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129111317	I would like to thank you very much for the support of a majority in the Folketing for the adoption of the proposal. As has rightly been noted by a number of rapporteurs, the proposal has a multifaceted purpose. It aims to strengthen the international competitiveness of insurance companies and to support financial stability. Let me perhaps dwell a little on the fact that, fortunately, this was the case in the context of the major financial crisis that we had in the world, that insurance companies did not find themselves in acute difficulties to the same extent as the financial institutions. But it is not certain that they will be able to avoid it in the future, and what is happening in relation to the directives which are now being transposed into Danish law, and in relation to the initiatives that have been taken here, is of course with due care to ensure that insurance companies never end up in that situation. So what we do is common sense. It is common sense to protect consumers. After all, there are frequent and frequent criticisms of transparency, legal certainty and other aspects of the insurance sector. It is now being made even clearer and even better. Then we also take the trouble to make sure that we differentiate the requirements we make, depending on the size of the companies. Last but not least, we also make demands on who is to lead the companies, so that we ensure that it is people who have just a minimum of insight into what they are doing that sits on these boards around. That is also common sense. That is why it is all an expression of, I believe, that both the European Union and the government in Denmark are taking due care in this area. There have then been some rapporteurs who have asked a number of questions. I note that these are constructive and good questions from the Left. They will be answered. It is the case that we have tried to transpose it as closely as possible, but there is, of course, a note on it. I also note that these are constructive questions from Conservatives: are there now unnecessary administrative side effects to this? And the Conservative rapporteur is right to say that what the government is going to pursue is that there is as little administrative trouble as possible about this. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read a very exciting phrase about the capital requirements. I believe that this is what we were talking about here: the stockpiling of capital and the quality of the capital underlying the insurance companies. That's right. You can read that out, and you will probably find lots of passages around, which are dry and boring reading. Unfortunately, however, I must disappoint the rapporteur by saying that such a type of legislation as this one will never ever be festive reading. Nor is it the case that it is legislation that is aimed at the individual, so that one can sit down and orient oneself if one has to take out insurance or even have a relationship with one's insurance company at all. After all, this is very specific to the whole financial sector, including the insurance sector, in terms of what requirements are very carefully and technically imposed. This is and remains technical, and there isn't much to do about it. Moreover, this is also the case in a large number of other financial sectors. The fact that we are very careful and very laborious in describing these things is not a coincidence, because to the extent that we have found that there have been problems in the financial sector in connection with the financial crisis and others, it has been those places where we have not gone through it thoroughly enough, where there have been some windows that have suddenly been allowed to take action that suddenly lost everything. That is why we need to be very careful and therefore this very technical approach to it. Then I have the impression that the Enhedslisten as such was not so busy focusing on the proposal itself here, but more was in such a more general EU bashing fashion when the speech was being held. Well, that's good too. However, one should not confuse the fact that one is dissatisfied with the draft law and the European Union, with a question of democracy, because it is still the case that whatever Enhedslisten thinks, and whatever one thinks of the European Union and other things, there is a majority in favour of this type of legislation. It will also be forward-looking, no matter how much Enhedslisten pulls it in the Chamber, out of the Chamber, in the Chamber, or where it is now being dragged. It's just so you don't get it wrong. I think it is a good thing that we have a good democratic debate wherever we can get near it at all. I have no problem with that. However, one has to be clear that for a majority of the parties in the Folketing, and it is democracy that a majority can adopt things, it is the case that this is common sense, and it will be the case that the majority will, I hope, last quite many years in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129111912	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129111922	It was then a quite horrible statement, that just because there is a majority, there has also been a democratic process. That's what I was trying to question. For no one is in any doubt that this is being adopted by a massive majority in the Danish Parliament, but has there been anything to remind us of a democratic process up to the time of this draft law? If the Minister thinks so, I would like it to be described. What was it actually said that democracy worked, because democracy is really a discussion before the decision and not after the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112004	Now we can discuss what democracy is. After all, there are various discussions about this, i.e. whether it is participation in democracy or whether it is simply adopting things and other things. But let's just leave it alone. But this has been put forward in the normal way through the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, where I am sure that Enhedslisten has also trodden up and asked a lot of questions and where there have been opportunities to have a debate. We have also had the opportunity to draw it down in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, where we have been able to debate it. We have had every opportunity to ask questions to the Minister and others. Well, it's been the usual processes you've been able to run through. The question is just that which I noted and which I saw the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. It was more that Enhedslisten's rapporteur kept a long tirade on how terrible everything the EU did was and that Enhedslisten always ended up in a minority. It is of course true that Enhedslisten always does so, but it just has nothing to do with the fact that, for example, one has been cheated democratically. It's just that you don't have a majority for your stuff. It's just what I'm trying to clarify. The fact that there has been a democratic debate is irrefutable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112109	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112116	In fact, Enhedslisten now leaned very much on Insurance & Pension, which is not our normal business partner in this field, because they point out that important control functions in respect of pensions and insurance are being transferred from Denmark to EU authorities. It gives rise to this problem that the European Union must take a position on the basis of very general considerations, which certainly cannot be said to mean the same as a Danish reality when we look at it. So what I am asking here is: is the transfer of control now wise and when was it actually adopted in the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112157	As far as I am aware, Insurance & Pension is positive about the proposal here, so it's a good step on the way to perhaps also bringing Enhedslisten along if it's your new friends. But on the question of whether it is sensible to move sovereignty to a certain extent somewhere, it depends entirely on what purpose it has and how well it will work. After all, that is what we have a debate on in a wide range of EU matters. I think that in a lot of areas it makes a lot of sense and good sense for a small country like Denmark to have common legislation rather than to have to sit and box nation state against nation state. I can find plenty of good examples of that. There may be other places where I think you should keep your pilgrims away. In this case, it has probably been very obvious and well described in relation to the things that have been presented to the European Committee of the Danish Parliament and in relation to the opportunity that has been given to the Danish Parliament's Committee on Enterprise and Industry or where it has now been possible to raise it. It has been obvious that this would be the consequence of the proposal. So I actually think it's been pretty well-lit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112256	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112301	Thank you, sir. President. I noted, of course, that the Minister, in his assessment of the debate so far, mentioned that he wanted to sign up for the constructive proposals that had come from the Left and the Conservatives respectively. The Minister did not then mention the Danish People's Party, and I would just like to know whether it was not constructive issues that came up. It's just a clarification question. What I was asking was that the omnibus II directive gives increased powers to the European supervisory authority, which can then go in and dictate in connection with the Danish handling of the law on securities trading and on occupational pensions. It was such a factual, concrete question that I asked in relation to what it will have to do with Danish policy in this area. I thought it was a fairly constructive question. The second question I asked about was also very constructive, namely whether the Minister did not share our concern that the omnibus II directive has not been dealt with in the Committee on European Affairs at all. Well, I think it's very constructive. The Minister says that as far as the Enhedslist is concerned, something is missing in relation to democracy and so on. One thing, of course, is that we have been in the minority, but in order for us to be in the minority, it requires that things be dealt with, and so it has not been.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112426	I should like to sign for • and I also think that it was a very good, fine and constructive question that was asked in connection with the functioning of the supervisory authority in relation to a large number of Danish pension relationships and other matters, and I promise that we should go in constructively and answer that in exactly the spirit of the question. So we'd love to. On the second question, whether or not the omnibus II directive has been part of the procedure of the European Committee of the Regions, I would say that it has happened before I became a minister, but I have tried to check it for the time being and, as it seems at the moment, I promised to come back with some note about it, we do believe that it has been about Parliament's Committee on Europe of a few rounds. But we promise to come back with a note about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112511	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112514	Thank you. Yes, but we have tried to ask in the EU information, and it has at least been reported that only the Solvency II Directive has been under consideration in 2008 and that the Omnibus II Directive has never been submitted to the European Committee for a negotiating mandate. At least that is the information we have received.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112537	I shall be able to say nothing other than that only on the basis of what was asked about in this Chamber, I have asked about it on a temporary basis, but I have only been given a temporary answer to it, and on this basis we believe that there has actually been a discussion in both 2009 and 2013. But we will come back with precise information about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112552	Then there is one last brief comment from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112555	Now Enhedslisten is not usually our partner. I'd really like to come Enhedslisten a little to the rescue here. There is no doubt that this bill has gone through a democratic process, it has it all the way through, and I do not think anyone is questioning that, that is to say the process itself. But democracy is also about more than processes, and it is surely perfectly legitimate to problematize that there is legislation that is so complicated that it is difficult for even experts to understand it. It is quite fine that legislation is complicated and it is quite fine that a great deal of time is needed to understand and understand it, but here we are talking about legislation that is so complex that even experts who work with this every day have problems understanding it all. This is what happens when you ask the experts themselves. It may well be a democratic problem. It is not the case that legislation necessarily has to be understood by the lowest common denominator, but it must be the case, from a democratic point of view too, that legislation must be understood by people with a reasonable intelligence and that even spends time learning about it. And I just want to know if the Minister doesn't agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112722	I fully agree that this is fairly complicated and that it is also quite reasonable to be able to debate how complicated it is. I have no problem with that. I was discussing with Enhedslisten whether you had a democratic process or not, and I actually thought you did. To the question of experts, and now here it is targeted people who have complicated financial legislation, I have to say that, if they are in doubt, there is both a consultation phase and all sorts of other clarification stages, where the Folketing can deal with matters and where we can have questions, so that we can clarify whether there are any conditions in and about the legislation that might be unclear. We do so very, very much and very much want to contribute constructively to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112812	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112816	But there is no doubt that the government is doing so. This is not a criticism of the government as to whether the authorities are available, because they do. They are available to members of parliament and to parties and stakeholders in society such as: insurance companies. No doubt about it. However, we are still talking about legislation that is extremely complex and complexity has costs. When legislation becomes extremely complex, errors are made more easily, accidental errors are made, and many hours are needed to ensure that legislation is complied with. It has costs out there and it also has some democratic implications, in other words it simply has democratic implications when legislation becomes extremely complex. It costs a lot. I just think you should deal with that. This is a real problem with all legislation, and here we are talking about legislation in which, although it is aimed at a specific sector and it is also right that there is a high degree of complexity, there is an extremely high level of complexity. That is why there are also great costs to society and to citizens. It would just be nice if one could recognise that this is actually something that will cost citizens insurance because it is becoming more expensive to have insurance companies because of complexity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129112942	Now I dare not make an accurate statement of how much more expensive it will be. But as I tried to say before, we are very, very much in this area, as we are in a large number of areas, for example. financial institutions and the like, went down in detail and has been very, very far around, and that has a reason. That is why we want to prevent it from going wrong again. That is why we are guarding against making relatively accurate legislation in a wide range of areas. If we just left it to the market, which we have tried sometimes, yes, sometimes things go wrong, and when things go wrong with the market, it not only goes wrong with the market, then it also goes wrong for the other people, including those who are not just involved in the market. That is what we want to avoid. So that is why we are making very, very careful legislation and yes, it has its consequences in that it is heavy to administer and that it is also costly. But how much more expensive it is, compared to what we might otherwise face, one can then discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113041	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister. The second round has been requested. Sir. Frank Aaen for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113100	I just think that the Minister is underestimating the things we have tried to point out here in the process. A democratic process is being referred to, but for some of the directive it has certainly not been the case, not even in the Committee on European Affairs. I believe that almost everyone who knows and has worked in the Committee on European Affairs knows that this is not a satisfactory democratic process. It may be that it is formally in order, but by far, the vast majority of things come only in the Committee on European Affairs when they are really settled down in the European Union. Then the Minister will come and ask for a mandate. There may then be a few questions, but everyone knows that at the time the mandate is so tied it is a matter of hand; there can be no amendments. The government is simply asking to say yes to what they have said yes to, and they are then allowed to do so because there is a massive majority in the European Committee that supports the European Union. This has nothing to do with, as the Minister indicated, whether we are for or against the European Union. It is really an issue that should be of interest to the whole Parliament, regardless of its position on the European Union, in other words, whether the democratic process in relation to the things adopted in the European Union and which, to a greater or lesser extent, have direct direct legislative effect in Denmark, is satisfactory. And I think most people who have just had a little knowledge of it know that it is not satisfactory. That is why I made the proposal that all important matters should be started with a resolution in this Chamber, where we have a debate before the government goes down and in practice decides what we are going to do in the European Union. It is not enough to make an application for a mandate when things are actually settled. That is a real discussion. Then there is what I have asked a few times, but the Minister has not been very keen to answer, and it is about the argument that the transfer of supervisory tasks from Denmark to the EU is a consequence of the directives' sentence. But when did we in the Folketing actually decide that we should change the supervisory system of pension funds in Denmark? And it is not only in relation to pension funds that are so important to all of us; it is the same debate we have about mortgage, where it is very much the European Union that decides what the Danish mortgage should look like and where we constantly have a fight with the European Union that we want to maintain the mortgage that we have, because it is both more effective and in many ways better than what we see in the rest of Europe. Nevertheless, it is largely regulated on the basis of EU rules. So this is an important broad debate, which is why I would just like to say to the Minister that we would like to see a specific review of what the Minister thinks the democratic process has been about what we are dealing with today. And it would be very good to be able to know exactly when it was agreed that we support the move of supervision of Danish pension companies from Denmark to the EU. And then it would be a good thing if the Minister would at some point take a more fundamental view of the way in which we conduct EU policy, from a democratic point of view, not on the basis of whether we are for or against it and whether it is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113440	A debate on democratic architecture in and around EU cooperation in general may go too far, but nevertheless. I don't want this to be uncontroversial. It is not the case that, as the rapporteur says, every time you just show up and then ask for a mandate to implement what has already been adopted. It is something propaganda that belongs in such a referendum debate. As the rapporteur very well knows, we very often come up and ask for early negotiating mandates to take care of Denmark's interests; we ask for what mandate we have to stand on when we have to negotiate with the other countries. But, of course, it is the Commission that has the right of initiative and can make a large number of proposals. And sometimes there may be proposals that we think are very good and are really happy about, and at other times something that we think is less good can come. But when we have to join the community and make it work, and we have chosen that as EU-positive parties, we have to follow our negotiating mandate and go in and try to get the best possible result out of it. It happens many times and often to great, great satisfaction for us, and sometimes we get a result that we are less happy about. That is how it is to be part of a community, and that is how we have chosen to do it. Of course, as I have promised, I would also like to go back and look at exactly what the different EU directives have dealt with. I am sorry to have to say that it was something before I became a minister I even think before this government came to the conclusion that a large number of these proposals were dealt with. That's how long it's been coming. But I would very much like to explain it to you very carefully too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113646	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113653	I just want to thank you for that commitment, because it could be a very abstract discussion about the democratic process in the European Committee and about the European Committee. Perhaps it would be very good to have a very specific discussion on this in relation to one important matter, including not only describing the procedures, but also describing the concrete debate that has taken place on the two directives we are really talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113723	We should like to try to identify what debate there has been. The debate is, of course, something that the rapporteur himself can deliver, so it is also important to be up and running when this kind of debate is taking place. We have no problem finding out what it's been like. But it is as if there has been a feeling that we have lost something in this regard. I can't see we've lost anything. I can only see that Denmark is clearly gaining great benefits from it. There is, of course, the cost that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned that some from the industry and others would think that it is a problem that you will have increased administrative costs, but that is, as I said before, indeed in terms of achieving the objective that the whole financial sector, the whole financial sector, will be subject to more careful and tighter supervision, and I think that is really only a very good purpose. So I do not really see that we have lost anything in connection with this proposal, but only that we have got something. And again, it is a sign that if we have the same conditions as all the other EU countries and are thus able to compete on an equal basis, the cheaper it becomes and the happier we can be as insurance customers and as savers when it comes to pensions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113830	There are no more questions. Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113901	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 3 February 2015. Sir. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the authors of the question to justify the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129113920	Common solutions are often the best. It is therefore very positive that there has been much more focus on shared economy in recent years, and it is to further boost the development that Enhedslisten has taken the initiative for a query debate in the Folketing today. By sharing things that we only need once in a while, we can save on Earth's resources, reduce pollution and save money ourselves. Also open source, where you go together to develop and design products, are examples of shared economy. A third possibility is that the municipalities share their cars with the city's citizens at the times when they do not need them. In the context of the 2015 Finance Act, we were allocated 40 million. kr. targeted dissemination of circular economy and shared economy, and thus there is also a need to look at legislation and rules. We must ensure the right conditions for the development of a shared economy in a way that benefits both the environment and does not undermine pay and working conditions. In today's debate in the Folketing, we therefore hope to have broad support for the desire to develop the shared economy, so that we can quickly identify how to create the right framework for the future development of the shared economy and get started also to create this framework in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129114036	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is first the Minister for the Environment to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129114046	If one is to believe the Think Tank Global Footprint Network, on 19 August last year Earth's population had already used the resources that the planet can recreate in a year. For the rest of the year, we just pulled more and more into the account. And here in Denmark, unfortunately, we cannot escape our share of responsibility on the contrary. We make more household waste per capita than most other countries in Europe. Surely it is not a European championship worth winning, and if we are to avoid doing so, we need to move away from our use and throw away culture. This requires us to be better at recycling, borrowing and sharing. It is not really a new idea in Denmark. Since the first cooperative milking in 1882 we have found great advantages in associating with others on large investments in cooperatives, utility associations and cooperatives. We have a long tradition of trusting each other and coming together to share and solve things together. What is new is that it has become possible to create contact, trust and community with people you do not know and that is perhaps one of the reasons why the sharing economy gets so much air under its wings in these years. We have also begun to share less investment and daily consumption. In Denmark, you can drive other people's cars via the portal www.gomore.dk, which in a few years has received more than 200,000 users. This means that more people drive together in fewer cars and thus emit less CO2 The website www.trendsales.dk has 765,000 users and a turnover of 500 million. kr. a year. This means that a smaller amount of clothing ends up on the incineration, because it is switched or sold on. It is therefore both entrepreneurship, big business and tangible gains for the environment. A French study shows that if we are better at sharing clothes, transport, furniture and household appliances, we can reduce household waste by 10%. Can we, for example, do this? share a drill with 4 neighbors, five times the consumption time of the machine and get it at one fifth of the price. It's win-win for us and then an extra win for the environment. There is no doubt that the market is there and that more and more people are beginning to see the scam in getting more value for their savings. Therefore, it is about being the first to come with the smart solutions and the new business models. The winners of the future will be the companies that know how to get more out of less. Having said that, there are some dilemmas in the shared economy which must also be dealt with in relation to the environment. It is not always a good idea to keep sharing old things, for example. used toys made from soft PVC plastic and purchased before 2007 may contain harmful phthalates. It should therefore be returned instead to the recycling site. It is also not certain that the old, energy-intensive refrigerator will have to move to the cottage. Perhaps it is better to have a new and more environmentally friendly refrigerator. The government, together with SF and Enhedslisten, focuses on supporting the development of the shared economy and spreading the initiatives that are emerging with the Finance Act for 2015. In 2015-2018 we have set aside 10 million. kr. a year to delinitives that promote circular economy and shared economy. This was also demonstrated in 2013 when we established a subsidy scheme for citizens and associations with a spirit of fire in their stomachs and green ideas on the drawing board. This scheme has so far supported 120 projects across the country with a total value of nearly 26 million. kr. Several of the projects contribute to the shared economy. We have supported swap markets, community gardens, clothing libraries and sharing schemes in core owners' associations The government is soon presenting a new strategy for resource efficiency and waste prevention because we need to get more value out of our resources. We must avoid common precious resources becoming waste. We can, among other things. do by sharing even more, and one of the initiatives of the new strategy that supports the shared economy is, for example: a guide to association Denmark to make sharing arrangements easier in the housing association, the colony garden or the summer cottage district. We must build on the old Danish traditions to get more out of the resources together. It must be easy to share and swap and borrow and rent. For example: In this way, we can reduce the pressure on the scarce resources we have so that we can pass on at least as rich a country to the next generations and so that from August we do not continue to draw on the world's overdraft.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129114620	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129114626	Thank you, too, for the question. The share economy has grown rapidly at global level in recent years, and in Denmark more and more companies and Danes are taking on these new business concepts. Part-economic business models use the Internet to make it easy for consumers and businesses to share, rent and borrow products and services. The sharing economy thus gives consumers access to a lot of products and services without having to own them. Studies from e.g. The United States and Britain show a large market potential for the shared economy, which is why we must also expect a significant market potential for the shared economy in Denmark. In 2013 the Danes rented houses, apartments and rooms corresponding to more than 452,000 nights via a part-economic service such as: Airbnb. Danish companies in the shared economy are mainly entrepreneurship companies. One example is the Danish entrepreneurs who provide co-driving and car rental services between private people. However, the sharing economy also offers interesting opportunities for established companies. They can use the sharing economy to gain access to new markets and customer groups which reach e.g. BMW offers sharing car options for younger people who otherwise cannot afford to invest in a BMW. The government is actively working to create good conditions for Danish business. We should therefore respond to this new business form and support the emerging development. In order to ensure that Denmark reaps growth opportunities in the shared economy, we need to create a good framework for shared economic business models in Denmark, and at the same time ensure that rules and regulations are understandable, so that doubts about the rules will not stand in the way of the development of the shared economy. The government has already allocated 10 million together with the Enhedslisten. kr. per Year 2015-2018 to the Green Conversion Fund to target initiatives that promote shared economy and circular economy. The Fund shall, inter alia: Take a closer look at how to ensure that public assets are better used. It can, for example, be done. be that we need more municipalities and companies to do as Hedensted Municipality, who in cooperation with LetsGo have replaced 14 municipal cars with shared cars. There may be competitive positive effects of del-economic business models for consumers in terms of increased innovation, lower prices and more choice. The challenge is to strike a balance so that ordinary individuals should not be subject to the same rules as traders, but, at the same time, businesses should not be able to avoid the rules by calling themselves consumers. Of course, what is really an economic activity must be treated as such, so that we ensure equal treatment. Crowdfunding is a part-economic business model in the field of finance. Crowdfunding enables companies to obtain capital directly from both ordinary people and traditional investors. A Danish example is Lendino, who offers the companies' capital needs in small bundles of DKK 1,000, which anyone can then offer to finance. The maturity and interest rate are adjusted to the actual situation. Crowdfunding is an alternative source of funding for promising ideas for small and innovative companies. However, before companies put their ideas on a crowdfunding platform, it is important that they have taken a position on who has the rights to the idea and any future product. If the company has protected its new business idea with e.g. a trade mark or patent is protected against the legitimate copying of it by others. The government is currently examining the steps to be taken to improve the clarity of regulation. Not all of these concepts are quite new. Part-car schemes have been in place for years, and there is no groundbreaking news in the fact that we rent homes and cottages to each other. The new thing is that the Internet challenges existing and well-known business concepts by fulfilling a role that has unimpeded borders and that in many cases creates trust and transparency between people and between people and businesses. It has also become easier to share, both practically and mentally, because the Internet's transparency through, among other things. social media create increased trust between providers and demand. Although it is difficult to quantify, there are obvious financial gains for the individual by sharing his/her free time, his/her home, his/her car or his/her knowledge with others. There is also a potential for the economy in general if the shared economy can be developed and disseminated, and therefore we are constantly looking at the barriers to the spread of the shared economy in Denmark. If we are to realise the potential of the shared economy for society, it may also be that we need to look at regulation in a new way and assess whether it is up to date or whether it needs to be changed. And here we must not be afraid to discuss all aspects, so I look forward to us starting here today too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129115149	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. I think we can reach the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129115204	I am glad that today I can thank the ministers for their statement as something more than a formal recital which comes from pure courtesy. When I say this, it is not only because the government, with the answers that have been given today, clearly shows a positive attitude to the issue of the shared economy and its spread, but also because it can also get the impression that concrete initiatives are actually under way. And when you have discussed this with the rapporteurs of the governing parties, it is always nice that you can only say that what the government is doing is good and that they should just keep doing it, instead of making new radical demands for new things to be addressed by the government. I think it sounds like the government is doing this in a sensible way, of course also helped by the financial agreement made with SF and Enhedslisten. That's gotta be it. I would also like to say that I think that the Minister for the Environment, in his opening remarks, has a very, very important and important point which should basically be included in all our political discussions, and that is the discussion about how we can ensure that in future we can have a society with a high level of welfare, opportunities to meet the needs that we have as human beings, while at the same time using less of earth's resources and producing less pollution. It is, in fact, the core debate that should always take place, I think, even when discussing economic development. And it can be said that, of course, the shared economy is part of that discussion in a very good way. It is also important to stress that just because everyone starts talking about it as if it's something new you've never heard of before, don't forget that sharing is a Danish tradition. This could have been part of the debate on value the other day, as one of the common values we have in Denmark, which is really important, namely that the major developments in Denmark have actually happened when we have acted together. When machinery stations were set up because each farmer did not have to have all the machinery himself; when the cooperative movement was established; when a cooperative movement was established; when a housing sector was established which is largely composed of general housing, it was an expression of the basic view that we together find solutions which are based on the fact that we share some of what we have. I think that is important to hold on to. The new thing is, of course, that the possibilities in a number of areas have been expanded, and after a period when it was very important for everyone to own everything ourselves, we may now have got to where we think it has a value in itself, that we share something with others, also because sharing something with others means that we have the possibility of having access to some things cheaper than we would otherwise have had. After all, as the ministers' replies have shown, the economy can be a variety of things. It may be that you share what you own in some system, whether it is the car, the home or the cottage. It may be that you, together with others in the housing association or the colonial garden association, buy something that you own together and that you share. And, of course, it may also be where we use public institutions to have something that we also use together. It is all an expression of shared economy and a proper, very sensible way of organizing society. Then it is true, as the Minister for Industry also said, that when there is something good, there is usually something that can lead to something that is a little bad. That's the way the world is. And it is true that we have looked at how, under the guise of shared economy, action has been taken which may have been more about finding a smart scam to avoid regulation of working conditions, regulation of environmental conditions, regulation of security and perhaps also not paying taxes. That is also absolutely right, and we must, of course, avoid that. But we must avoid it in such a way that we do not over-bureaucracy society, so that ordinary people's achievements and opportunities to share things are destroyed. It can be a complicated task in such a regulated society as the Danish one, which is why I am just glad that the task has also been tackled. At least that's really important. It is also important, when it comes to business, to discuss how much you want to share and what you do not want to share. That is something to be considered. I have come a long way now and can almost see from the President that, despite the scale of the subject and the very inspiring content of it, I am coming to the end of the speech. So I shall finish by reading out on behalf of V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) the following proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament supports the spread of the shared economy, which can help to increase the resource efficiency of society, which will have positive effects on the economy and the environment. The Danish Parliament notes that the shared economy can create greater economic room for manoeuvre for the individual, more choice and more flexibility and greater sense of community by contributing together with others to greater sustainability, that consideration among others. safety, environment and health, as well as competition and working conditions also play a role in exploiting the growth potential of the shared economy, that the government is currently analysing barriers to and potentials of the spread of the shared economy in Denmark, and that regulatory barriers can prevent the development of new shared economic business concepts. The Danish Parliament supports the Government's efforts to explore opportunities for the spread of the share economy in Denmark in order to make better use of resources for the benefit of e.g.: the economy and the environment. • V 20) • V 20) • V
ParlaMint-DK_20150129115745	That's what Mr. Per Clausen read out proposals for adoption on behalf of many parties are, of course, part of the ongoing debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129115758	First of all, I would like to thank you for taking the initiative on this question. I have only one question, and that is how Enhedslisten views the negative consequences of the divide economy, as Mr. Per Clausen also mentioned briefly. There have been examples abroad, especially in connection with this taxi scheme called Uber, where a large number of critical issues have been raised in relation to both the working environment and tax, i.e. some tax issues. And, in fact, I would have liked the Minister of Taxation to have been here too, because where we run into a barrier that we should be discussing is specifically on tax issues. Did Mr. Per Clausen a comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150129115847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129115850	I would like to start by saying that I also originally had a longer list of ministers I wanted to bring with me, but then it turned out that it would be very difficult in practical terms, and then we thought it might be a little high to call the Prime Minister. So that was the two ministers, and I guess that's good enough. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk, that he is absolutely right, because there are examples that this is being abused. I believe that Danish legislation today is good enough to close the gap that Uber is trying to exploit. But the point is how to create a hole for what you want, while at the same time excluding these things. And there I think you just have to face up to the fact that it requires thorough and serious work, but if you have the approach that I have and that Mr. Uffe Elbæk has, and as I understand the government has, we will find solutions to those challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129115932	We will not be able to make any more brief comments now. I can see that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen has also volunteered, but then we must have Mr. Per Clausen up here to start at 8:00. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Joachim B. Olsen. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129130000	The sitting is resumed. I understand that there are no more brief remarks to Mr Seligman. Per Clausen, and if I am right, I will give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, the first in the rapporteur's line, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Kim Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129130040	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to Enhedslisten, who has raised this query debate, which I think is relevant, exciting and interesting. So I am pleased that we can have a good and hopefully constructive discussion on the whole issue of the shared economy, which the question here concerns. A proposal for adoption has been tabled, and I can already say that it is a text that the Left supports, because it is positive in its approach to the area. This is a relatively new phenomenon. It is not something that has arisen in this country; it is an international phenomenon, but it does not change the fact that it affects us. It is also something that very much concerns younger generations. Young people are extremely concerned about how to share resources, how to get more out of their finances, how to recover some of what you have once come to own, but where you can also get a share in some of what others have and which you have not had the opportunity to buy so far. That's a good thing. It is also very positive that we are aware of the environment and resources, that we do not consume more raw materials, more raw materials than we need to recycle products that were once manufactured and that more people can benefit from the same things. It is very sympathetic, and it is something that goes like a wave over the world and that also at our latitudes has become a hit. We must, of course, take a positive view of this, we must examine it, we must be prepared to increase its dissemination, but, of course, we must also be prepared to deal constructively with the challenges it presents with regard to existing legislation and with regard to established industries. I think that the text, which has been put forward here in the proposal for adoption, offers all these opportunities, but also challenges, in a very balanced, friendly and friendly way. This is basically something that's grown from below. It is not a large international group that has dropped some products that should be made to buy through marketing. Nor is it something that some states have set out to promote for some ideological purpose. It is a quite healthy and natural interest from the bottom up, to use that expression, from ordinary people who have wanted to have social relations around some things that you need or would like. And, of course, we must support that. After all, it is in itself positive that we have been isolated behind the screen for many years now. We have cultivated the ego and loneliness of our study and the search for information behind the screen. Now we see a tendency towards it, namely that we seek together together together, that we would like to look for networks for whether we can be four in a car if we are going home to Jutland a weekend instead of travelling alone on the train or driving alone in our own small car. It is therefore socially, humanly positive, it is resource-economically sensible, and it can also be economically very good for the individual. It can provide space for something else financially independent later on. I do not think that this is something that can be seen as a major growth initiative, as something that will create many jobs, but it can help the individual to improve the economy, so that more liquidity can be provided and then some purchases made, some investments which can then help create growth and jobs. That is also extremely positive. This is also basically an expression of thinking which has greatly influenced our own country, our own society. I am very pleased that there are several people who have already referred today in this debate to the ideas of participation from the end of the 1800s in this country. After all, they expressed the desire to get something more out of things by joining forces, by making a spread of risks, by sharing some investments, but also by pooling production so that one could invest in processing and market together and get an additional price out of one's goods. There is nothing wrong with going together to make money or go together to save money; there is no contradiction at all between the individual's interests in the economy and the Community's interests in getting something more out of resources, in saving the environment and in strengthening the social network at all. This is something that new technology offers. Lightning fast messages can be spread, apps occur, you can form networks like never before and in a hurry that can hardly be imagined. It is clear that it offers some new platforms, it offers new market opportunities, it also offers new uses for resources and for that matter for the economy that a community can produce. I think it's some fantastic interesting perspectives that emerge in this, grown from below in best cooperative thinking, for a homogeneous social society like the Danish, and then with a lot of young, committed, talented, smart people who can see the usefulness of this, both economically, environmentally and in terms of social contexts. We would like to be positive about this. We look forward to the work being done by the government, namely to provide what may be of the barriers that are there. There will also be problems that need to be identified about environmental issues, about the working environment, about tax payments, what do I know. There will be some consideration to be given to established industries which are regulated and which will be exposed to competition which, of course, they must have the opportunity to take up and counter. However, these are all constructive tasks when it is something that can contribute to a greater community, a better economy and a more appropriate use of our overall resources. So it is a constructive work that we would like to give full support and support and look forward to seeing the results of. They're gonna be poking around, and that's something we're gonna have to discuss on a regular basis. We are also prepared to do so. What we just have to agree to remember is that this does not replace the growth initiatives that Danish society needs here and now, or the growth initiatives that the Prime Minister announced in his New Year speech, which we have still not seen, but are just waiting and waiting for, because we still need to get growth and domestic job creation going. This isn't the answer to that, but it is so much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129130826	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129130828	I just want to hear what the Left's position is on some of these new technologies, such as: Uber, who has also come to Denmark. I just want to know whether it is the intention of the Left that if there are any legislative obstacles to the implementation of these new technologies in Denmark, they must be eliminated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129130855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129130856	Now I think that Joachim B. Olsen anticipates the course of events. Now we have a positive and constructive debate on the shared economy here today. We support the government in continuing its investigation and conducting the necessary investigations. Then we should not start to conclude and say what we want to say until it is available. But when we are positive about the shared economy, it is, of course, because we want to promote the idea. Then it is because, as far as possible, we will eliminate any barriers that may exist. However, I also said in my speech that there will be sectors that need to be taken into account because they live under regulation today, which they are bound by, and, of course, in a new scenario, they must be given the opportunity to act. There will clearly be things in the area of health and safety at work, in the environment itself and in food safety, and I know what needs to be taken into account. But let's take a positive view, and let's take one thing at a time. We can easily say that this is difficult, that it is incalculable, that it cannot be done and that we will not, but it just does not, because it comes from below, and it comes from whatever we say and do. Let's do it constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131002	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131003	I certainly think that we should also have a constructive approach to this. I simply asked because I thought that it might be that the Left itself had a position on it and should not wait for the government's position. It is, of course, fair enough to wait for it. There are, of course, a number of industries which the rapporteur is right to mention, which are highly regulated, for example. The taxi business, which de facto has a monopoly given by the state. The approach could be, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. is in the taxi area, so that new ways of transporting people around are also allowed for the benefit of citizens. The liberal view must be that a specific sector is not taken into account, that is, not in favour of protectionism, but that it is in favour of promoting citizens' opportunities to use the services and services provided by the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131110	Today we have a general debate on the shared economy, on how we can promote shared economy and how we can identify what may be of barriers or special considerations to be taken into account. That's it. Today we are not discussing specific industries, particularly specific sectoral legislation or anything else. But it is quite right that it is a bourgeois-liberal policy, at least for the Left, to be on the side of the citizens, to be on the side of consumers, to be against monopolies, to be against restrictive restrictions on the free supply of goods and services. This is extremely positive. It's coming from downstairs, it's something that's emerged from its own free operation. We are basically very, very positive about this. We think this is in line with good, healthy Danish thinking, also in a historical perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131157	Sir. Uffe Elbæk for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131201	It is nice to hear that the Left also wants to back up the divide economy and, in general, sees it as a potential growth area. Nevertheless, I would like to ask some of what the rapporteur said, namely that it was still a smaller area of growth compared with the other growth initiatives by the government and that it should not be compared at least. That is why I would like to quote PriceWaterhouseCoopers in connection with the Davos meeting here a week ago, where they actually say that at the moment, and that is in 2013 figures, they estimate that this area covers 15 billion. Dollars. That's what's gonna happen. And they estimate that within a 10-year period they will reach 335 billion. Dollar in circulation by del-economic initiatives. The two most mentioned companies we know here in Denmark are Uber and Airbnb. One is currently valued at 41 billion. Dollars, it's Uber, and Airbnb is valued at 13 billion. Dollars. So this isn't just a little thing. It's actually a big thing we're talking about, and it has a huge potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131320	I fully agree with the questioner and that is correctly quoted information. I'd like to sign for that. I know the same information. But it doesn't say much about growth, sir. Uffe Elbæk. It says something about the turnover of some individual companies and the action in a market, but it does not say anything about what has then gone from others established in the same market. So I do not think it is possible to derive from that what it gives in relation to growth creation as such. However, as I also said in my remarks, I recognise that it may have something to do with what you save and then will be able to invest. But it also has something to do with the development of democracy, and Mr. After all, Uffe Elbæk is the author of a legislative proposal to be dealt with in this Chamber in a moment, on the development of democracy. This is democracy development, so it's gonna do something. It is the citizens who use their own feet, if I may say so, and move and walk together in new ways, because they may think that there is some legislation and some restrictions and something that in the established society has become too tight and tight in relation to what they want and the freedom they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131416	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131417	I totally agree. When I just made this comment, it is because I believe that what we are facing with regard to the shared economy and the circular economy and several sectoral discussions will send shock waves through the normal way of thinking the economy, and that is also why this debate is so important to all of us. Because this will change the rules of the game we have known so far, for the way we think about the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131448	I very much agree that this is a fantastic exciting area and an interesting concept that has emerged over a relatively few years. And I do not disagree at all with the fact that it will be very important and comprehensive both here and globally, and will have consequences which will mean that some things will have to be rethought and changed, including in terms of legislation. I am fully aware of that. On the other hand, I think that something like this happens sometimes in waves. In the course of a century, there will be such things as basically change some assumptions, and it may well be that we are here at the beginning of something like this. It could be exciting if we could be involved in that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131526	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I shall now give the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131531	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for raising this important question about the shared economy, because the sharing economy has already become a very important part of many people's everyday lives and it offers new opportunities for both existing and new companies. That is why it is important that we have a good and objective debate today.I can hear that we have already been able to decide together to learn more about the opportunities and challenges created by the shared economy here in Denmark. As has already been mentioned, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated in a report that the share economy worldwide will amount to 2 000 billion. kr. in 2025. In Denmark, we do not currently have a precise inventory of how much the share economy fills, but it sounds very good if we could get an overview of it in the long term. I am therefore pleased that we can note that the government is working to gather more knowledge about the spread of the shared economy and about the challenges and opportunities it creates. Share economy is not a new phenomenon. It is actually the same as that I get to borrow the neighbour's trailer and the neighbor is allowed to borrow my lawnmower, but unlike it is the shared economy that we see flourishing now, also something that takes place via the net. That is why it can go much faster and the spread of it can happen much more explosively and go beyond what you just agree to share with your neighbor and neighbor. What is new is that technological developments have made it easier to organise the shared economy. Instead of standing on the road with your thumb in the air to get a lift, you can now contact a network of people who have an extra seat in the car. In this way, we can make better use of our resources, because it gives the individual greater economic space and more freedom when sharing the cost of goods or services. There are many positive perspectives for the shared economy, but it is clear that there are also some challenges. A challenge for the legislation on the shared economy is that the roles of consumers and traders become more unclear. At the moment, it is uncertain whether one can be regarded as a trader if one, for example, can be regarded as a trader. gets paid to give a ride. This raises the question of consumer protection, for example. whether, as a private individual, you can be held liable in the same way as a trader if you do not deliver a product as you had otherwise agreed. The challenge for us here in the Danish Parliament is to find the right balance, as the Minister of Industry also stated in his speech, namely the balance to ensure that private individuals should not be subject to the same rules as traders, while at the same time ensuring that traders should not be able to circumvent the rules by calling themselves consumers. The Social Democrats' ambition is to ensure that we create the best framework for the Danish economy. This also applies, of course, to the sharing economy. The divide economy is beneficial to everyone, and that is why we must work towards creating a modern framework and removing the inappropriate barriers, to the extent that we do not create new problems in other areas. Action has already been taken to create a more overview and to promote the shared economy, for example. In December 2014, the Danish Business Authority published a report showing that many del-economic companies are experiencing laws and regulations that are unclear as to whether private individuals should comply with professional requirements. After all, the 2015 Finance Act has ensured that 10 million will be granted. kr. This year and over the next three years for a green transition, among other things. via shared economy. All positive. However, this is only a start, and we need more knowledge of opportunities and barriers for the shared economy, and that is why the Social Democrats also support the proposal for adoption which we have jointly formulated between a number of parties. It is a text which supports the spread of the shared economy and supports the government in clarifying opportunities and barriers to the spread of the shared economy, with a view to creating a clear regulatory framework that will ensure that developments in this area will be of the best benefit to consumers and businesses and therefore also to the consumption of resources in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131924	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129131937	After all, shared economics is not what is in principle shared by the Folketing, one can at least conclude from the debate we have had so far. After all, it is also a very broad group of political parties with different political ideologies which can, after all, come together to describe what we really see as the focus of the shared economy that is constantly evolving. We have seen in recent years that it has been able to spread at a very high rate. It is not just clothes that are borrowed and exchanged; it is not just cars, it is utility, it is crowdfunding, as the Minister also mentioned in his statement, where you can support on the basis of different parameters. It can be a book publication, it can be music you want to publish, or it can be a product you want to gain ownership of by supporting either directly or indirectly. So there are many aspects to this, and this is something that we must of course understand to handle intelligently in a society such as the Danish one, where, of course, we also have an interest in these things taking place on the basis of the legislation in force. If we look at Uber, some kind of legalized pirate taxis, we can say that it is at least in some places that it has been very difficult to manage for a country like Denmark, where we have these permits for hire cars etc. and we think that this should be done in a precise framework, taking into account the general good. So we also support in the Danish People's Party that the sharing economy is applied and is increasing in areas where it can be used, but we must also recognise that there must be some prerequisites for the way it should work. One of them is that it is important that the various initiatives should not conflict with existing legislation, and another important condition is to ensure that it does not increase the scope of undeclared work or the spread of the black economy, in other words, where it does not get in the right way in a purely economic way. Elsewhere, where you also have some problems to deal with, in certain situations, the issue of ownership is. Who is the formal owner of a product and who, for example, is. the real owner? A formal owner and a real owner are two different legal persons or companies. There may also be some who have mortgage declarations if they are products, for example, and that is why, of course, we also need to ensure that ownership conditions are properly described at all times. Finally, there is the question of insurance. Of course, in cases where there is damage to goods, we now have very detailed insurance legislation in terms of protecting the interests of consumers, but also, of course, in order to be able to take responsibility for any damage at any time. Of course, if someone or something is responsible for an insurance case, you also need to know where to go with the bill in question. Similarly, if, for example, there is a risk of a fall in the number of young people in the labour market. is someone who has insurance policies with step-by-step regulation, it is important to know how to deal with it in a legislative way. But it does not change the fact that we in the Danish People's Party think that the spread of shared economy is sensible and sensible. We think there are many places where it is good to use it, but there are also some places where we see that there are great challenges with it. I mentioned Uber just now, but it may also be Airbnb, which is also one of the major players in the market and which has grown a lot. We must also bear in mind that, of course, in some places it can also be an incentive to run the economy in a little more, what to say, unauthorized way. We have an area called www.denlilleservice.dk and it's not because I'm supposed to advertise websites • but the Small Service can be great for the individual. And I am not going to say that what is going on there is not entirely in accordance with the letter of the law, but what I would just like to point out in remembrance is that we must at least be sure that we also have control of the legislation which is the basis for the way we are taxed in Denmark. Because if we do not get our taxes in, we will not be able to maintain our welfare at the level we are accustomed to, and that is why we will be faced with a priority situation. But enough about it. The positive thing is, of course, that the Internet is used here, for example, to communicate needs and supply, and that is sensible enough. All we have to do is take all the political aspects into account and make sure that conflicts and situations arise where this is not appropriate, and of course we must also be able to act legally from that point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132440	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132443	I just want to know whether it is the position of the DF that it is in the public interest to maintain monopolies, for example. in the taxi sector, i.e. what it is in the general interest that a particular industry has a monopoly. And if you think it is in the general interest, is there anywhere else where the DF wants to introduce monopolies, because you think it would be good for the general good?
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132514	Well, there is no monopoly on the taxi area in Denmark, there are a lot of taxi players. But it is the case that the municipal authorities, among other things. determines how many taxi licences are to be held in the municipality concerned, and it is then up to the elected representatives of the municipality to decide how it should be combined with regard to taxi permits. But it is not a monopoly in any way whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132537	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132539	Yes, it is. It may be that there are different companies, but they operate under some monopoly-like conditions; not everyone can enter and compete in this area or establish themselves; not all people can establish themselves as a taxi driver if they wish. So there is But I just want DF to explain why it's in the general interest that there is this regulation, so why everyone shouldn't be able to establish themselves as a taxi driver. What makes this industry so special in relation to all sorts of other industries that there should be no freedom of establishment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132632	Well, there are plenty of places where there isn't just what is called freedom of establishment. We also have a banking company in Denmark, but I can't just decide this afternoon that I want to make a bank. I know, sir. Joachim B. Olsen's party is closely related to a bank, but that doesn't make the Liberal Alliance a bank. So, this is not a monopoly, not at all; I think it is a completely wrong premise, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is going into. I have a fairly extensive knowledge of this, of course I have been in the municipal council for many years, and there are no monopolies in the municipalities on licences to obtain taxi grants; there is, in fact, a quite common open and free system of how to handle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132712	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129132722	I would like to begin by thanking the Enhedslisten for raising this debate. Although it is a Parliament that may suggest that it is relatively broadly agreed to welcome the divided economy, I believe that the changes that this very, very rapidly-growing wave brings to our society are necessary to talk about. I think it is important that we, as politicians, take the debate and start looking at what these are complexities that then come as a result of these new ways of sharing, to lease, to rent, to use new technologies in a way, so that we get a lot more out of the resources we have. One might actually wonder why the shared economy has not come before when one looks at what that is for a huge potential for increased productivity, for resource use that lies in the shared economy. Experts estimate that there is an economic potential of up to three trillion dollars globally for the shared economy. It's huge. One really wonders why it has not come before, but of course it is because some of the technologies that are going to really share cars or buildings, get the maximum out of them, or share things, or whatever it may be, are actually only by gaining ground now. Five to seven years ago, we didn't even have a smartphone that could quickly tell us where there was a car or something to share, and who would like to share with us nearby. So there are some reasons why this is happening at the moment, but it's also happening at a rate that makes us have to think carefully to bring the soul into this big change. If you look at the potential for the shared economy and look at such things as the transport sector, we see that the cars we have today run around 4%. of the time, and of the 4%. is about a quarter of the time you are looking for parking or waiting in line. So it is really very, very little productive to put such a big thing into production and only use it 4 per cent. of the time. It is clear that those who have an economic model, where you can just improve it 5, 10, 20 per cent, have a huge area to chip into. We can see how Danish companies are already starting to help private people share their car with their neighbors or with others in a way that actually costs nothing to have a car because you rent out to your neighbor. We can see how at Amsterdam and San Francisco airports a company has been created that tells people that instead of driving their car over to parking and paying to park, they can drive it over to them, and then it is rented out to some others in the meantime. You get part of the rental premium, the car gets cleaned up, you don't have to be paid to park, I even think you get a little greeting from the one who rented your car. These are business models that are actually so obvious once you see what you can do. One of the reasons why we may not have shared so much before, I think is the idea that one should think about how people really feel about sharing. We like to share, but maybe we shouldn't feel the other one all the time. You don't want to go to a hotel room, and then there's something from the last one. You should rather be a picture that what you share is in one way or another your own. Those who have found out and found out how to put a quality stamp or put in cleaning or make sure that there are some who review those with whom you share, so that some have given a quality stamp, have broken through that social barrier that sometimes exists when it comes to wanting to share with others. So it's also been really important to get that understanding in that it's not enough to rent your car out, it's also best to be clean when you get it back and the like. Another area where there is a huge potential is, of course, in all the things we have in our home. A drill is used 15 minutes in the course of its life. It's not much to go in and invest in such a thing. So it's clear that those who can help you, that you may not all have to have a giant-sized garden tractor or a drill, etc., have some opportunities to exploit this area. In addition, we see a generation of young people who are not actually very concerned about owning things. They'd much rather have access to things. American youths would rather have access to the Internet than their own car. I think that's something you really should have your eyes fixed on. There are people who believe that any product out there can actually turn into a service, that instead of selling a washing machine you can sell laundry service, that instead of selling a car you can sell car service, that instead of selling a mobile phone you can sell mobile service. So I think we're seeing a revolution, and that's why I think it's really good that we have this discussion today. In order to share this productivity and this huge potential, it's also important that Denmark comes first, that we come head-on into this development of our companies, helps to find solutions, technologies and opportunities, so we're the ones who get jobs and growth. But we must also talk about the problems that exist. How to tax properly in the shared economy? What jobs are actually being created? How do we maintain proper conditions for employees? For example: After all, we see parts of the very large and rapidly growing companies that do not quite get employee relationships with. How do we avoid new monopolies etc.? That is why the government has made a statement, and that is why I think it is very good that we are now getting this discussion started, so that we get the whole community in and it is not something that is just running over our heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129133234	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Sanne Rubinke.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129133242	We also thank Enhedslisten for giving us this opportunity. We in the SF are very pleased to have the opportunity to debate the shared economy and to share both enthusiasm and reservations. As a Green Socialist, it is quite difficult not to be overly enthusiastic about the opportunities and potentials offered by the shared economy. At grassroots level and often locally anchored communities bloom, as several have also mentioned, where individuals share and exchange children's clothing, lawn mowers, party tents, household machines, cars, furniture, garden crops and small services in the category: if you mow my grass, I can sew a few curtains for you. And a lot of other stuff. From an environmental and resource point of view, this makes a great deal of sense. At the same time, these communities are also in many places new paths where people meet on a case across the otherwise common social and economic divides. This is quite positive and something we have actually known for many years. We also see a market flourishing, where del-economic contractors largely use the digital platforms to share goods, services and services. Some, for example. co-driving arrangements and housing exchange during holidays have been in place for many years, and new ones are constantly emerging. We see a huge potential in providing support for a development in which we can be much more widely shared and exploit the value of things much better than we know from the use and throw away culture that has otherwise prevailed for a long time. It may well be seen as a popular side of a desirable green transition, where growth and prosperity can be based on a more balanced and sensible approach to consumption and not on blind or hectic overuse, a path towards a more and for us desirable circular economy. Some of them are quite unproblematic and, from a social perspective, also desirable, but we believe that, in the part-economic market, as in the market in general, there is also a need for regulation. The great potential is closely followed by great dilemmas and, as in all other fields, human greed and cynicism can also take precedence here. It is a development which is already so far and, above all, with so great commercial interests that it is not, of course, possible to stop, and neither should we, but we must learn to act in it. We can foresee the need for certain safeguard measures, for example. safety, health, worker protection and, above all, our tax-based welfare. It is far from unproblematic when we see private freelancers, who sometimes become almost day owners, taking over services for which we have had employees, for example. taxi drivers, or when we opt out of hotels to stay in each other's private houses. Uber, as some have mentioned, is probably the most topical example of the hardships that can be experienced if you do not try to be at the forefront. We must ensure clear rules and restrictions on the development of this area. As has already been mentioned today, the taxi area is one of the most regulated areas we know, and yet we actually get quite a long way out of the tangent before the law in our hands slows down. Of course, we do not want to see labour market rules, consumer protection rules or tax rules undermined by our side. We need to be able to deal with this in the legislation that is to come. In the SF we will eagerly follow the further work of government and Parliament on the shared economy and participate actively in it, of course, because, as is probably clear from the speeches of the debate, this is an area with great opportunities for both the individual's economy, for society and for the sensible use of resources and the environment and for strengthening communities. At the same time, commercial use can pose threats to society. Having said that, we see that the sharing economy in particular can become the path on which new good alternative jobs are being developed to strengthen the green transition, for example. in connection with dismantling, recycling, upcycling, etc. Of course, we want a Denmark where we are not afraid to regulate the sharing economy, but where we also make it possible to use it. It is therefore very positive that the government has chosen to initiate an analysis of opportunities and barriers for the sharing economy in Denmark. Of course, we want the analysis to be followed up by a kind of overall plan for the spread of the shared economy, because it is very sensible to consider what opportunities and potentials exist and which we must support, what barriers there are, what barriers such as the Folketing should take care to break down, and, of course, whether there are new barriers that we should make sure to travel. And, of course, we support the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129133748	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129133804	Thank you. We live in a dynamic world where technological progress changes our lives and creates new opportunities. Technology makes it possible to do things in new ways. We see that, among other things. in the field of transport, where the Uber app makes it possible to transport around in a completely new way, and we also see it in other areas. These new technologies can only be successful if enough people prefer these new concepts in favour of old concepts. Uber and other apps can only be successful if many people voluntarily choose to use them instead of old concepts. The West has become rich in finding new ways to do things, new ways that save resources that can then be used on other things. Of course, it challenges established industries when there is a new technology. The horsedrosches were challenged by the car; the telephone center was challenged by new telecommunications technology; the email challenged the mail, etc. Today, for example, it is. The taxi industry or hotel industry is being challenged by new technologies such as Uber and Airbnb. The established industries are often well organized with easy access to the rulers. They are, of course, using their influence to try to eradicate new competition, and it is often under the guise of consumer protection or even the general interest that makes it necessary to ban these new competitors. But it is not for politicians to ban new technologies. It is the task of politicians to protect citizens, not particular industries. And if these new technologies can only be successful if a sufficient number of citizens voluntarily choose them over others, and that is what is the case, then the public interest is not served by banning them. Another argument that is often used is that it is the consideration of tax-financed welfare that makes it necessary to ban new technologies. And this shows that there are some who live in a world that may disappear, because welfare is not what is provided by the public sector. When, for example, A new technology such as Uber, which allows people to be transported more cheaply around, is also well-being. After all, it is well-being that benefits people who do not have so much money and who cannot afford to drive a taxi, which today is really, really expensive. Then it is also well-being, and it should be borne in mind that welfare is other than what is provided by the state. That is very much what is provided by the market. So in the Liberal Alliance, we welcome this new shared economy. No matter what form it takes, we see it as the politicians' task to remove obstacles to the obstacles that make Denmark and Danish citizens unable to take part in the new opportunities offered by this shared economy. There are countries that are far ahead of Denmark • Australia, England, USA. They are far ahead of Denmark, and if you've been on a trip to Los Angeles, you'll see that apps like Uber have kept their footsteps, and that's something people are incredibly happy about. On behalf of the Liberal Alliance, I would like to make the following proposals for adoption, which I would just like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Parliament recognises the socio-economic potential of the shared economy, including greater economic room for manoeuvre for the individual, more choice and more flexibility. The Danish Parliament will work to remove any regulatory barriers that may hinder the development of new shared economic business concepts. • V 21).
ParlaMint-DK_20150129134250	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we go to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129134300	I would like to start by commending Enhedslisten for a good initiative, because I see the whole discussion here and the concept of shared economy as capitalism in the highest power. After all, for the shared economy, the question of how best to use resources is also based on market economy principles. The way to share is, of course, that there are some who assess how much a product is worth, and I will then give that, I would like to offer that. So it is a good debate, and fortunately there has been a very positive attitude towards the whole idea, the concept, of all the parliamentary parties and the government, which I think made very constructive notes in this area. PwC has calculated that there is a potential for over 2,000 billion. kr. globally for the whole of the shared economy. I was in England myself in December and tested an Uberbil for the first time. It was a good pleasure, it was interesting, and it was cheaper than the other cabs over there and more flexible. It is estimated that one in four British people uses part-economics. One out of every four Britons takes advantage of shared economics on all sorts of leads and edges. So I guess this isn't a development you can just stop. We can see that at least most young people have tried Airbnb, Uber, sharing cars, and all sorts of other things are pushing forward all over the world. So I guess you can't stop that development. That is why I think that this is a quite sensible proposal for adoption, which we, together with the government, are proposing here, namely that we try to look at the possibilities that exist, but also look at how we can do it in a way that offers equal opportunities for everyone to do so. Well, that's a fantastic lot of options for Mr. Knox. and Mrs Denmark to both get out and offer some services and also as citizens get some benefits. But it is clear that it must be in a framework that is the same for everyone, so that the conditions of competition are the same for everyone. We are very positive about further examining all forms of shared economy. It will benefit Danish society, it will benefit capitalism, and it will benefit the individual Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129134517	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129134530	I don't know if Enhedslisten can handle any more praise down the line, but I also have to pay tribute. It is really, really good that we are getting the first discussion on the issue of the shared economy at least. However, when I want to put a few words on it, it is because I think it is important to emphasise that the shared economy is just an element of a large number of new initiatives that we are beginning to draw a new economic understanding of how we can shape our society in the future. We are talking about circular economy, we are talking about shared economy, we are talking about completely new ways of working together between public and private and non-governmental organisations. This also means that not only is there a need for a mapping that the government has put in place, but a discussion on how to set up an entirely new infrastructure. Because if this really has to be done, you can say, get fullness and momentum, then there are a whole series of initiatives that need to be put into effect. Of course, one thing is to map it and find out what the potential is, but how do we support it if we want it to grow bigger, from new training initiatives, new research initiatives, new ways of creating business support, new tax models, new business forms? So I just think that the discussion we have had today is only the tip of the iceberg, compared to what we will see of change when we talk about the labour market in the future. That is also what was the big message in Davos a week ago, when there were more people down there, as far as I know, who have just said, that the way we understand the private sector today will look completely different tomorrow. This is just the beginning. So thank you for taking this first one, I'll say searching debate, because we're going to talk a lot about this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129134732	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk, who spoke as a privateist. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Business and Growth, if he wishes. Then the rapporteur for the questioners will be allowed to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129134750	Thank you. I thank you once again for giving us the opportunity to have the debate today. It is, of course, as the last speaker has said, a more searching form of question we have had here. I can see that everyone believes that there is potential for growth and employment and innovation, that there is a positive view of the whole area; but all the barriers and problems that may arise along the way are also being addressed, because instinctively you already have the feeling that there are traditional industries and habits that will be challenged. I sometimes have the pleasure as Minister for Business and Growth to hear many people talk about how very different parties are in favour of growth and fair and proper competition. We hear a lot of festivities about that. But for the very same people who give the speeches, it's always this area that may not be as suitable for competition. This is also said by many of the employees' organizations, and this is actually the way to deal with the area by area. This means that, theoretically speaking, you are very much in favour of it, but when it comes down to it, it just doesn't work right here. See, it has then created the thinking and practice and given the effect that productivity in the domestic industries in Denmark has stood still for, I do not know how many years. That is the consequence of that thinking. And every time the government here has tried with social democratic zeal and initiative to put forward new proposals to increase competition, there have been no limits to whining around how it is not exactly possible; among other things: in the taxi area, I have noticed at a time when there were some against it. So I welcome this debate and the positive approach... it's always something with each of our starting points. And there are really big and good and real potentials in it. But I think we are going to meet a lot in this Chamber and in other political debates and discuss everything from the working environment to tax rules and competition rules. And I am really looking forward to that because I believe that if we do this a little carefully, a little cleverly, it means that we will be able to create great benefits for Denmark and for Danish consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135035	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135039	Thank you, sir. President. After all, the Minister referred to this issue of competition expulsions and that there were many people who had party talks about it, and when it came down to it, there were always some restrictions, and I can actually agree with the Minister on that very much along the way. But I would really like to ask the Government's position on the same challenges, because under the last government's majority there was an agreement that a greater proportion of municipal and regional tasks were to be carried out year by year, i.e. it increased by 1%, it was 26%, it was 27%, it was 28%. and so on, and this has been removed by the present government, so that there is not this automatic projection as to how many of the tasks are to be carried out in the municipalities. And it is not, of course, because we want outsourcing at all costs, we just want to get it competitive to find out what the price is in relation to the quality that the public wants. So here is a place where the minister's own hinterland might have failed by removing this competition ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135141	I do not always think it is sensible to go for a percentage, so it is said that out of gross turnover should be so and so much competitive; I really do not think that is such a particularly sensible measure to use. I feel that if, in the long term, we can create a meaningful private market where we have fair and equal competition and where, if it is a public product, citizens also have free and equal access, then I am in favour of creating such a market; I am. But I am not in favour of headlessly moving from having a common public monopoly to a private monopoly; I think we should be very careful about that. Then there are also a number of areas of public welfare where one can be concerned about the extent to which one should put it into competition and thus create a price formation on the market. So this is, if you may say so, something a little different from the split economy. But it's not that we in this government are scared of competition, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135237	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135239	Well, I think that there is a certain amount of double standards in what the Minister here says. After all, it is an indisputable fact that the government has chosen, in the municipal agreements that have been made year by year, and also in the agreements that have been made with the regions, that the agreements that there should be a continuous increase in the percentage of their tasks that were put out to competition were written out. This is not, as I said in my first round of questions, the same as saying that we per. definition wants there to be more private hands. What we just want is for us to see the price in terms of quality, and that is what we are doing best by putting out competition. Perhaps that was just what the Minister was supposed to bring in his evening prayer another good time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135322	No, there I think the rapporteur has actually misunderstood what it means to put out competition and what we are talking about here in relation to domestic productivity and other things. In fact, I think I fundamentally disagree with the fact that the only way to test the effectiveness of public services is to expose competition. For one might ask: What is the sensible and correct price formation of a lesson? What is the reasonable and proper price formation of a home help class? Maybe you can find out better. What is the sensible and correct price formation in relation to public administration, defence or where we are now? This brings us into an area where we have natural public monopolies, where we have a large number of welfare tasks which are solved, for which it is difficult to create a market and price formation. That is why we can say that simply having a certain percentage target one is pursuing may not even be so important, but if there is a principle that it is where the market itself can cope, where private monopolies are not created in the long term and where there can be a reasonable competitive situation and where the citizen has free and equal access to the service that one might wish to provide from the public sector, it makes very good sense to create a market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135437	Thank you, Minister. And then, sir... President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135448	I would like to say to the last exchange of views here that I am most in agreement with the Minister when we talk about the public sector, and most of all agree with the Danish People's Party when we talk about the taxi industry, so perhaps we should meet in the middle here, in my position. It is just a small attempt to conquer this place in the middle of Danish politics, which everyone is fighting for. But don't worry, I'm not going to keep going with it. I'm sure it will also cause internal unrest in the Enhedslisten, and you shouldn't expose yourself to that. I think that this has been a very good and exciting debate, and that the shared economy is something sensible and offers some very good perspectives, one could, among other things. Listen to Mr. Brian Mikkelsen's speech, for mr. Brian Mikkelsen stressed that shared economy was the finest expression of capitalism he could imagine. And I will not deny that this is the finest form of capitalism one can imagine. It is then not the existing form, but the finest form that one can imagine. On the other hand, I would like to say that the idea that we share things together uses things as one of the finest elements of socialist thinking, and so it is also represented here. I think that when there can be such a positive and forward-looking discussion about this, it is because we agree that the idea that we do things together, the idea that we share things, can both create a better life for the individual and also help to use resources wisely and reduce pollution. We agree on this; we want to; it is a sensible thing; and it is very good to do. And I think that is actually a good starting point when we start discussing more specifically what to do. For it is clear that when we have finished this exercise, when we have had a fundamental discussion and said that this is the sensible thing to do and the sensible thing to do, and here we lack concrete initiatives and concrete proposals, we will end up with some of the slightly more general political discussions. I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance for choosing to draw up a contrast on the part of the Liberal Alliance. It is said that if we just let everything go, if we let the market itself regulate this completely and thus abolish the rules that regulate our society today, for the sake of the shared economy, then things are going very well and then we will have the best possible society. But now the experience of allowing such a capitalist economy to flourish without regulation is the quite trivial one, that then you will see very quickly monopolies that will make Mr. Joachim B. Olsen really, really worried and perhaps even wanted back to some state monopolies instead. That is the one element. The second element is that we will also see a massive growth in economic inequality and also a growth in poverty and jobs with really poor working conditions too, so that even the Liberal Alliance will say that that is not what they meant and that that is not what they wanted. That is why the discussion on how to regulate this is going to be very important. And there is no reason to hide the fact that the starting point of Enhedslisten is that in the continuing process we must ensure that we do not create a new labour market with lots of poorly paid labour. We must not create a labour market where health and safety rules do not apply. We must not create a labour market where there is a lot of undeclared work. We must avoid this even in cases where it could be said that it might be a little easier to get the share economy going if we did not have rules. On the other hand, we should not regulate the fact that ordinary people come together to share products, whether in residential areas or in colonial gardens or anywhere, in such a way that it becomes the same as running a business so that it becomes completely impossible for people. And that is what it is all about, that is to say, finding the balance that I believe will be a very important task in the years to come. I would just like to say that I think the debate today has been good because it has shown a common interest in going along the path of shared economy, out of a path where we are investing in community and out of a path where we are aiming for environmentally sound management of Earth's resources. But the discussion has also shown that, of course, there are still slightly different views about how we regulate society, and they will probably also exist when we come to discuss what legislative changes we should have in this area. I would just like to say at the end of the day that I am very pleased that the government in this area is not only positive, but also seems to be working seriously to develop the proposals and structures that can make the transition to a shared economy work sensibly in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135934	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday, 3 February 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129135958	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129140024	With B 47, a centre for citizen involvement and democracy development will be set up at Christiansborg. The proposer will require the government to establish a research institution at Christiansborg, which will work to promote citizen involvement and democracy development. By its very nature, democracy and citizen involvement are a priority of the government. Although we often pride ourselves on having one of the world's best democracies, democracy is a vulnerable and vibrant size that should not be taken for granted. There is a constant need to confirm and improve our democracy. Sometimes citizen involvement comes too late and is experienced as a pro forma, and confidence in politicians is not always at the top either. We also experience challenges in getting young people and new dancers to vote. These are examples of challenges that we take seriously here at Christiansborg as well as abroad, not least in the municipal councils. On today's occasion, I would like to highlight one of the many exciting projects that the government has launched to meet some of the challenges, for precisely today, 29 January 2015, the 8th and 9th grade primary school pupils of the country are going to elections, not to elect a new student council, but to hold a test election for the Folketing. This will take place every two years in the future and will hopefully help to motivate young people to participate in democracy and to counteract the falling turnout among first-time voters. The government decided in December 2012 to take the temperature of local democracy by allowing a travel team to examine how democracy felt outside Slotsholmen's walls. An exciting report came out of that. It was called up by the couch, and it was published in September 2013. Experience from the tour was that no one model of citizen involvement can be developed that can be rolled out in all municipalities, as local conditions and traditions often play a major role. That is a key point for me, whether we are talking about local democracy, national democracy or citizen involvement. Democracy and citizen involvement must take place in the right place, be diverse and not be put on a formal basis. I am therefore very pleased that KL also takes on a great responsibility and among other things. has launched a major project on the municipal government of the future, which, among other things, will work on strengthening local democracy and citizen involvement in the municipality. So, overall, I have a great deal of sympathy with the good intentions of the proposer. On the other hand, I am somewhat more hesitant about the specific motion for a resolution. A research environment at Christiansborg is hardly the right way to spread democratic experiences around the country. Direct citizen involvement is something that must be developed locally and based locally in party associations and municipal councils and with respect for local conditions and priorities. And it is the government's view that the municipalities are committed and support and work on that agenda. It is a process that cannot and must not be controlled from Christiansborg. But what can we do at Christiansborg to support development? At Christiansborg we have a responsibility to ensure that there are the right conditions for democracy in Denmark, so that individual authorities and institutions can organise their work with local democracy and citizen involvement in the best possible way. The government estimates that setting the direction through concrete reform proposals and in the overall modernisation effort will have the greatest impact. It can be large and small, as when we changed the rules in the wake of the municipal elections in relation to the way elections are conducted, and where a majority in the Folketing, among others, is. agreed to grant junior officials access to the polling stations. The government's modernisation efforts are precisely about creating a free space for authorities and employees to use their professional skills and local knowledge of what works, to organise their work, and about showing confidence that this space is being used in the best possible way. I think strict retail management from Christiansborg stifles not only innovation and innovation, but in fact also the desire to engage locally and politically in society. In addition to the general modernisation effort, we have been working on several concrete initiatives to promote and support the development of democracy and citizen involvement, not least in the run-up to the last municipal and regional elections. One of the major aims is to get more young people and citizens of other ethnic origin to vote. There were, among other things. working on by sending letters to 100,000 first-time voters with a call to vote in the municipal elections in 2013. Together with KL and Danske Regions, the government was also the initiator of the nationwide campaign • Think about before you don't vote. The campaign was among other things: targeted young people, ethnic minorities and socially vulnerable. Overall, the municipal elections ended in 2013 with a turnout of 6.1%. higher than in the 2009 municipal elections. I see this as a good indicator that the many and diverse efforts that have been made on the basis of the key initiatives around had an effect and that there are forces working in the daily to promote our democracy. We also have a number of other relevant initiatives. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, we are just on the verge of a digital solution for handling electoral declarations, which should make the whole process of election to parliamentary elections easier and faster. And the government is like Mr. Uffe Elbæk was concerned about creating openness about funding political parties. This is important in a democracy, because openness is also a way of involving citizens. The government has therefore set up a committee of experts which has examined how greater transparency can be created on financial support for Danish political parties, and the committee will shortly come up with a number of recommendations that we look forward to discussing with the Danish Parliament's parties. We are also concerned with creating transparency in relation to the politicians' remuneration and have therefore, together with the Folketing, set up a remuneration committee to propose a more simple and transparent system. Finally, I think it is worth mentioning that, as a follow-up to the democratic tour, the government looks at the state side of local involvement through a service review of the statutory local consultations. This should help to ensure that local consultation takes place appropriately and effectively in a framework that supports the involvement of citizens and businesses adapted to local decision-making processes. So we must also, as a government, safeguard democracy and ensure that there are good framework conditions, and I think I have demonstrated here that we are working very actively for this. I believe that democracy has the best conditions for growth in the individual institutions in their meeting with the citizens. It is projects such as the above-mentioned test elections in schools which are currently taking place that will help to make the difference. And on this basis and from an overall assessment, we cannot support the proposal and do not want to prioritise resources for a center at Christiansborg, but look forward to continuing the work of promoting democracy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129140722	Thank you, Minister. It is always good to hear the views of a minister and a government on a matter, but I would point out that this proposal is therefore addressed to the Folketing and not to the government. However, I would like to thank the Minister for his comments. However, a request for a brief comment has now been received. I hope it wasn't born of me. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk and the Minister, please return to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129140754	I think that now that the Minister has come to the Chamber, he should also be allowed to have a question. The way in which the Minister interpreted the ambition and intention of the centre, I cannot recognize it. So, the Centre for Civil Involvement and Democracy Development is not intended as an attempt to centralise the discussion on how to make democracy stronger. The idea is at the heart of Danish democracy to say that we need a development department that can help to support all the good also decentralised initiatives that are going on out there. So the picture that this was supposed to be an attempt to centralise the debate on democracy development is completely mistaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129140839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129140841	Well, sir. Uffe Elbæk is, of course, the best person to explain the intentions behind the proposal, as it is he who has brought it forward. But what is my point, for example, when we look at how democracy develops, is that the question is, of course, what signal one wants to send. We want to send out a signal that democracy must be developed everywhere, as it is today in a large number of the country's primary schools. Democracy research is a priority in the Danish research institutions, where nearly 350 years of work are involved in democracy research. This applies to the University of Copenhagen, Aarhus University, Aalborg University, University of Southern Denmark and Roskilde University. These are the activities we want to support and not to move them into Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129140922	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129140923	Well, I don't want to belittle all the good activities going on out there. All I can see is that the gap between the citizens and our elected politicians is widening. There are fewer and fewer people who want to be members of a political party. We see among young people a receding desire to vote in national elections. There are also opposing trends, as the Minister has also pointed out, in connection with the municipal elections. So you cannot say that because something is already happening, you cannot do anything that is perhaps even better or complement each other. The whole idea of this is to lift it into the heart of the Democratic House, the Folketing, and then say: With that platform, how can we further make visible the democratic initiatives that are needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141016	We must always welcome this when we share a common intention and ambition. I think I also tried to explain that I think we're doing everything. After all, in connection with the municipal elections, we have seen that it is useful to make an effort. We had a higher turnout, not least in the groups which were the subject of a special effort. But when Mr. Uffe Elbæk talks about lifting it in, so we're talking about lifting it out. That is what divides us from the specific proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141042	So then we go to the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Esben Lunde Larsen, speaking for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141052	Today we are discussing B 47, which is a proposal to establish a centre for citizen involvement and democracy development at Christiansborg with the aim of mapping, promoting and supporting the development of new concrete models for citizen involvement and democracy development at local, regional, national and international levels. We in the Left are in favour of ensuring more citizen involvement and democracy development, but we are not in favour of the proposal to set up a research institution behind the castle walls, especially when the focus is on citizen involvement. It is our politicians' prime task to constantly strive to strengthen, develop and improve democracy in Denmark, but we do so not by setting up a research institution, but by providing more resources for the work of the members of the Folketing. The Left wants a modern democracy that allows citizens to have an active influence on decision-making processes. If this citizen involvement is to be real and not merely formal, we, as politicians, must be in interaction with the citizens whom we represent, and this requires our presence outside the walls, not through research institutions behind the walls. It is far from simple to set up a research institution which is not rooted in universities or existing research environments. Can it even get the professional and scientific level that it is going to have, and what about funding after five years? Research often extends over a long time. We in the Left believe that we should instead draw on existing resources and capacities in the field of democracy development, for example. The Fonden Teknologirådet, who is probably the body in Denmark that has the most practical experience of democracy and citizen involvement processes. So if there are tasks to be highlighted in relation to democracy development, citizen involvement and the like, the Danish Parliament, which has a formal agreement with the Danish Board of Technology, can order assignments there. In addition, there is everything that is going on in our existing research environments in universities, which the Minister also mentioned. There is every reason to involve them in the work we do. The Left cannot support the proposal, although we share the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141257	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then we jump to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141315	Thank you and thank Uffe Elbæk for taking an interest in how we create a more vibrant democracy. I therefore have great sympathy for the intention and in many areas also for the idea of discussing, both how we strengthen the democracy we have in here at Christiansborg, and how we make democracy alive. After all, the whole foundation of our society is a living and pluralist democracy. As the Minister said, it is also a bit of a party day today, when the 8th and 9th classes vote and, as far as I have observed and participated in, are very keenly involved in the democratic process that began when the Prime Minister announced school elections three weeks ago. In this way democracy is not a static size, but something alive and what we are creating out of it. It is important to remember each other, and it is also important to continue to participate in the discussion on how to strengthen it. That is why I have great sympathy with the motion for a resolution tabled, which in many areas reminds us of something that we discussed ourselves in the autumn at the Socialist Congress, namely how we bring together the experiences that exist in some way. And from the point of view of the Socialists, we have also said that we want to look at the opportunities that could be available to set up a genuine democracy office, which is trying to coordinate and disseminate some of this and is helping to drive and generate new ideas. If we are a little more sceptical about the very, very concrete motion for a resolution before us, it is because we are very specific about the fact that it should be at Christiansborg and that it should have a board and a certain number of employees, and even what budget it should have. We are not actually ready to go in and support in the form it now has. But that does not mean that we do not have sympathy for the proposal and, as the Minister has already explained, there are a number of things going on, both in terms of research and in terms of initiatives around it. I think it is important that, at a time when we can measure a high level of politicians, we discuss how we can bridge the gap between politicians and citizens. And I have to say that in what I myself participate in at local level in Gladsaxe and in the vicinity of Copenhagen, there is a great and lively desire to participate in citizen-oriented initiatives. I find that people in relation to this question of politicians on the one hand are critical, but on the other hand also actively participate in local democracy, and we can see that the turnout at the last municipal elections was great. It is actually worth taking that discussion with each other. So, all in all, I would like to thank you for the initiative. We cannot support the proposal, but we think it is sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141620	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141623	I would, of course, first of all like to thank you for the positive feedback that I hear from the Social Democrats about the idea itself. I would just like to stress that the model contained in the proposal is of course under discussion, and I also hope that it will be discussed in committee, because we see that there are other institutions outside Christiansborg which work in the same field and which can be drawn from good logic into it. This is among other things. The Technology Council's work on citizen involvement. So I would just like to say that the model put forward in the proposal can, of course, be discussed in committee if you find the basic idea interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141707	Thanks for inviting me. I am very happy to take part in a discussion on this, including at committee level. The Board of Technology has a lot of interesting thoughts and capabilities, and we have an ongoing discussion, including in the Education and Research Committee, on how we can use some of the capacities and ideas, and it is obvious that we should continue the discussion there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141729	Thank you to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129141739	Thank you. It is a bit cozy today that this proposal, which is being dealt with by the Education and Research Committee, is being dealt with by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. We know him from before, and he knows us, so it's gonna be great anyway. Basically, this proposal is very sympathetic. It is good to seek development in citizen involvement and democracy. We need to do everything we can to activate citizens' commitment to society, increase democratic understanding and fundamentally strengthen democracy. This proposal describes the establishment of an independent centre at Christiansborg with the aim of mapping, promoting and supporting the development of new concrete means of citizen involvement. We already have a number of research institutions today and I do not think that we should set up additional research centres. What may be needed is to ensure the use of research in the context of legislation and decisions, both at the level of parliament and at local and regional level. It is about using research to ensure better citizen involvement and democracy development. There we have a body which has many years of experience in creating citizen involvement and thus the development of democracy, namely the Board of Technology. The Board of Technology is still alive, but is now transformed into a fund on the basis of the decision we made here in the Things in 2011 to remove their subsidies. The Foundation has many years of experience in cooperating with the Folketing, it is internationally recognised and has been the inspiration for establishing similar councils in many other European countries. In the Education and Research Committee's 2012 report on the Board of Technology, we have placed particular emphasis on the international role of the Board of Technology and, in particular, on Denmark continuing to be represented in the European Network of Parliamentary Technology Assessments, EPTA, where the Board of Technology has played a central role. In order to maintain that role, it is a prerequisite that there is a real connection with the Danish Parliament. As a current example of the Foundation's work, it can be mentioned that it has just begun a project on Denmark's land in the future. It is a project that is precisely about involving citizens and politicians, both from the Folketing and municipal councils, and stakeholders, and creating a democratic discussion that can systematically create a number of recommendations and thus a basis for decision-making for planning and prioritising land use in Denmark. It is a project that also involves researchers in the concrete project from both Aalborg University and Copenhagen University. I think this is an example that gives a good picture of the need for democratic citizen involvement here being met by payment from a fund. It's the Velux Foundation that pays projects. The Danish People's Party believes that, as a parliament, we should be better able to have such citizens-involved projects, projects that will also support the development of democracy. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that we cannot support the proposal as it stands, but we would like to help in the work of the committee to draw up a report to support citizen involvement and democratisation with the Technology Council on the actor. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142043	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142050	Again, of course, I would like to thank you for the positive feedback from the Danish People's Party in relation to the idea itself. Then we can discuss how such an initiative could actually be organised. Of course, when I presented it in such a very concrete way, it was in order to prevent it from becoming an overly fluctuating discussion, and so at least there was something concrete to discuss on the basis of. From that point of view, I can already hear that there may be some opportunities to reach out to the Technology Council. I can only support that thinking and that proposal. What I want to hear very briefly about the Danish People's Party is whether the Danish People's Party can see the idea of having a development department of this type in parliament. It is not to close the research to Christiansborg, as the Minister claimed, but indeed to say: here we work, here we gather knowledge, and we again distribute it to all those who want it, both at local, regional and national level, and for that matter also internationally. So when the world wants to know where the most interesting examples of democracy on good citizen involvement are, you can call here, and then you can get the discussion from here. Does the Danish People's Party see an idea in having such a development department right in the heart of parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142205	Well, I don't know if I see it for me that we're gonna have a development department like this. But I think this is a very important area and that it is very important that we have an inclusive process in every way, so we need to develop some tools. We need to look at how we can do this in a way that will also make it easier for us as parliamentarians to get things out and get help to create these citizens-involved processes. This could easily lead to somebody having closer contact with, for example. The Technology Council compared to using them this way. Where it should be placed and how it should be done, I would very much like to take part in a discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142246	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142257	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk to raise the debate on democracy and citizen involvement. There should be no doubt whatsoever that it is a matter of the heart for the Radical Left to ensure that citizens feel heard, that they do not lose faith in us politicians and that we develop our democracy so that we do not see a people who stop voting. There should be no doubt about that at all. That is why, since its accession, the government of which the Radical Left is a part has launched a wide range of measures to support, in particular, the commitment of young people to democracy and to increase their turnout, and we are, in fact, proud of this. We do not believe that creating a research environment at Christiansborg is the best way to strengthen it. That is what we think is to do where the decisions are taken, that is to say. local and national, and ensure that this is where people are involved and that they feel that their contribution makes sense. That is also where we believe that we know the specific issues and where we can make what we are discussing concrete, so that it is not a more theoretical discussion, but a discussion in which the individual can see himself as an important player and an important contributor to the work that is happening. In addition, we believe that concrete research on democracy must of course lie with the research institutions that have that task and that this is not something we should be managing here from Christiansborg. I can mention several measures supported by the Radical Left, the purpose of which was precisely to strengthen democracy and citizen involvement. There are, among other things: new rules that allow political youth parties to be present in youth education. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior takes part in the Danish Youth Council's democracy network, where there is a possibility that the Ministry can influence matters and discuss measures that increase the turnout of the elections among young people. In addition, the Radical Left, of course, supports the proposal made by the government here in February that the city councils should be allowed to select 16 to 17-year-olds as juniors in the polling stations in future elections. In the case of local elections, 100 000 letters were sent to first-time voters with a recommendation to vote. Besides these things, it's a real day to have this discussion on. On 29 January, school elections are held throughout the country for the 8th and 9th classes organised by the Danish Parliament and by the Ministry of Education. It is also a measure to counter the tendency for the turnout of first-time voters to decline. Therefore, there has been a three-week course among the 8th and 9th classes, where there has been a special focus on the election campaign and the opinions of the various parties on selected subjects. I think that is a very good way to feel at eye level and to feel heard and to know the policy being discussed, that there are some peers or at least some who are perhaps younger than most of us in this Chamber who are discussing political issues. It is the Danish Parliament and the Ministry of Education that have jointly financed the school elections. The idea comes from the Election Court Commission, which was set up in 2009. In addition, we have made accessibility to elections greater for people with disabilities. This has been done through cooperation with various organisations for the disabled, such as the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the Here, the focus has been on how accessibility for people with disabilities in relation to electoral acts has been achieved as far as possible, including: through technology, sub-projects, the possibility of switching to another polling place and better disability facilities. In addition, as the Minister also mentioned, we launched a democracy tour in 2013 to uncover the state of local democracy. 18 recommendations came out of this, and they are then being dealt with at different levels now. It is our fundamental aim to create as strong and viable a democracy as possible, now and in the future, and it is important to start with young people, because it lays the foundations for the rest of our lives. That's why we've started these many things. However, as I said, it is our view that it is best created where decisions are taken, where people feel involved, where it is not theoretical, but practical and practical. It is in the many ministries where growth plans have been made with the involvement of people. The Ministry of the Environment has created a major project called the Open Ministry, where people have been involved and policy-makers have been involved with them. The Ministry of Education has had an incredible number of good initiatives, which have been very citizen-friendly, and the Ministry of Culture was also under Mr. Uffe Elbæk's management out having people to make sure that they felt heard and could make contributions. So we do not think that it is a Christiansborg-controlled centre that is the best tool, and on that basis we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142736	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142739	In other words, all the good initiatives that have been taken under this government will be welcomed and there will be so much interest in how we develop our democracy. I can only cheer there and say, "That's so good! What just puzzles me a little in the rapporteur's concluding remarks is that it is said that there is a contradiction between good research in democracy development and real practice on the ground. I think these things are connected; there is a need for mutual respect and there is a need for best practices to be collected for all new good initiatives in one place. How nice it would be if this lovely long list of everything we know about it, which the rapporteur has now examined, lay in a central place and was communicated out so that the media gained insight into it. This is the whole idea of creating a centre that can help map all the exciting things that are going on out there, and of course it also has to be done out there. So I'm not here to talk about shutting it down. Almost cross-empty. We must open Christiansborg, and we must open up democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142856	Well, we can agree that more can always be done, but I do believe that there is good reason why research lies with the research institutions, that of course they also research in practice and many other things, and that we, as politicians, make sure that we act in a way that people feel as part of democracy, feel heard. And there I actually think it is a point in itself that we should not have a centre to try to take over the role of researchers, but that instead of all the places we make decisions we think about how we can get people involved. During the previous debate on shared economy, I tried on Facebook to start a small debate on Twitter as well as on whether people would like to interfere, whether they would ask some questions we could bring into the debate here. These are some of the things that the Folketing has also worked on and that I think it is necessary for people to feel that what we are discussing in here is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142948	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129142949	Now it is no secret that this idea is also inspired by, for example, MindLab under the Ministry of Business, which is an example of putting a development department and a research department into a public institution. And the experience gained from innovation in public management is only positive. So it can be done, and it can be done in a way that gives it not only Denmark's attention, but the whole world's attention, because it has never been done before. Of course, this is the same potential I see in this idea of creating a centre in the heart of democracy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129143026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129143027	Now I didn't mention MindLab in my speech, but I think their work is incredibly exciting. As far as I am concerned, the way they look at how legislation can be tested by, or can be civilized is such that it actually works when it comes out there. some of the work they have done with SKAT's website so that people don't go cold when they go in and look up at SKAT and get 50 questions, but actually looking for one question in concrete terms doesn't conflict with saying that there's research somewhere and there's practice somewhere else. And then there may be development opportunities for something like MindLab, but then I'd rather send money that way than I'd set up a new institution for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129143107	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Sanne Rubinke from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129143118	In the SF, overall, we are quite in agreement with the proposer that it makes real sense to work constantly with the development of democracy and its forms, locally, nationally and internationally. I do not know whether we should put anything special into what has been said by a number of people, but I suppose there is some appropriate timing in that we are discussing this proposal this year, where we are celebrating the Danish democracy's right to vote for women and domestics, and on the very day of the school pupils' election. On the foreign front, we all know that there are far too many places in the world where free and living democracy is only something one can dream of. We have a long and fine tradition that Denmark would like to help and support and concretely contribute to the development of democracy around the world. There are also places in the world where we will be able to learn something. In Denmark we often hear how apparently more and more citizens have an experience that democracy does not work for them or does not concern them. They are not in contact with politicians or with the decisions taken. Unfortunately, this is true at local, regional, national and EU level. It is said that politicians and very often they are mostly referred to as parliamentary politicians. In fact, they find themselves in some kind of glass bell or cheese bell without real contact with or contact with other people's everyday life. From this floor we can say that it is right or wrong; it is, in fact, completely meaningless. The important thing is that too many people have that experience of distance and ignorance, and that in itself is a threat to democracy. If citizens, be they young, old, new dancers or others, do not see that it is worth taking an interest in or engaging in democracy, nor do they see it as a relevant way of influencing attitudes and decisions, then we have a serious challenge. For this reason too, there is every reason to work systematically to gather knowledge and experience, theory and practice from both Denmark and abroad, to have the material elucidated and analysed, to share the good experiences and examples widely, to have experiments launched with new initiatives to strengthen citizen involvement and democracy at all levels. In fact, we see this proposal as a natural continuation or a means, also in relation to the work of the Technology Council. Nor can I fail to use the example of the People's Assembly. We think the meeting of the people is a good example of how politicians, professionals, ordinary citizens, trade unions, etc. gather and unite to discuss, challenge and improve our democracy. There we really see how people can actually move their perception of democracy and politics and, above all, involve the citizens in a way that enables them to experience themselves as active participants and have an influence on democracy. We also see it as a good example of how citizens actually want to, when setting a framework that is actually seen as worth participating in: democracy as something that we actively work together, and not just as something that has something to do with speeches and legal proceedings. We see that such work could well take place at a centre for citizen involvement and democracy development, as suggested by Mr. Uffe Elbæk. I do not understand the proposal as a Christianborg-controlled centre, but as a centre located on this cadastre, because with benefit one could probably enjoy being close neighbours. We believe that it should be discussed further whether Christiansborg is the optimal physical location of such a centre. Maybe that's it. I also understand that the Bureau of the Danish Parliament is actually working to open Christiansborg more towards the outside world and to try more direct and involving forms of citizen participation and democracy, including from this cadastre. It can be said that it speaks for a location here. I can see the idea of a location on this cadastral. At the same time, we have some bells ringing in relation to a location here, i.e. a risk that bureaucracy goes into it, that there is such a Christiansborg way in what is undesirable, and that one can have difficulty with the parliamentary politicians and administration to comply with an arm's length principle in relation to the place. Then we have one more concern, which is actually the economy. It is a little unclear to us how this is actually to be financed, but it is also one of the things we can discuss in committee, along with the location. For SF, it is important and indeed crucial that the partnership that you can have in such a centre with civil society actors, the inclusion of research environments, etc., which the proposal envisages, can also be realised, and thus also that location and framework support the intentions, functions and forms of work that are conceived into the content of the centre. We welcome the establishment of such a centre and look forward to further work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129143626	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one wanted to make brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129143634	I'd like to thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk for having put forward a proposal which contains at least a great many good elements and which has also given several rapporteurs the opportunity to tell us about the good steps taken by the government in the field of democracy. Otherwise, one might get the impression that what was, as it were, in the focus of the government was the attempt to implement McKinsey's theories on corporate governance in the public sector and a process of collective bargaining with regard to public employees, where employers on the public side, both state, municipality and region, seem to be united on one important, important desire: the desire to remove and reduce the cooperation institutions that exist in the public sector, reduce the influence of the representatives of trust and the trade union organisations and replace it with what is called visible co-leading. It's just to say that sometimes there are some amazing contradictions in the speeches being made in here and then what you do in practice. If you now learn relatively firmly a large group of employees, which is of great importance for the future of the primary school, that when it comes to their pay and working conditions and who has to pay for a new reform of the primary school, then the Folketing and the government will probably have to decide without listening to them, and when you come and say to them next year: Listen to me, now we have to carry out this reform of the primary school, and we would like to have it carried out with a very comprehensive democratic process, where everyone gets involved and engaged. When we also find ourselves in a political situation in which there is a tendency for the population to regard the political class as closely merged with the other rulers in our society, in which it is so moved from one post to another, completely independent of the fact that, from a population point of view, one is going from one interest to the other, without it seemingly playing any role, then democracy has some challenges. If, then, on top of that, a not insignificant part of the legislative proposals that we are discussing very thoroughly in the Danish Parliament has been adopted in the European Union before, so it does not really matter what we reach in the Danish Parliament, then democracy has a challenge. From this point of view, I think it is a good thing and would be good if we were seriously to work on how we could promote and support the development of concrete models of citizen involvement and democracy development at local, regional, national and international level, and let it permeate our political decision-making process and our actions. And it could then be the argument that it should be at Christiansborg that instead of Christiansborg having to rub off badly on the research environment and badly off on the results that were brought in, it should be positively infected by the other way. At least that's an option. In the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of the content of it. We can discuss the organisational form and perhaps also think that it is true, as other rapporteurs have also said, that the Board of Technology has been working and has been working for many years on issues relating to citizen involvement and has also carried out and been able to hold consultations in the past on important issues involving citizens and also drawing conclusions and the essence of what has been applicable in the political process. Whether it has affected the decision or not, one can sometimes be in doubt. But there should be no doubt that we from the Enhedslistens think that this proposal is a sensible one, in which we have to find out about the organisation and the economy, because it is easy enough to decide that we need five employees in here at Christiansborg, but it should hardly be taken out of the existing budget at Christiansborg. I don't know if that's the idea. One can of course say that in the Folketing we are happy, because we can just decide that we need some more money. We do, of course, have that power, but we must nevertheless consider how it can be done and how it can be linked to other relevant research environments working on the same issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129144043	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one wanted to make brief comments. The next one is sir. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129144051	Thank you. First of all, we in the Liberal Alliance would like to credit the alternative [Uffe Elbæk] for tabling a motion for a resolution in this Chamber. To table a well-worked resolution is a great deal of work, but it is also an important part of the democratic work at Christiansborg. Politics must not just be developed by officials who think about political solutions for the current government at all times. Political proposals from parties that do not sit in government do not thrive best as panic proposals that unfold in the media as an urgent response to individual cases. The motion for a resolution is an opportunity for those parties that do not sit in government to come up with a well-considered proposal that can later become law. As an alternative, we have tried to be a new party and we know that it takes both knuckle fat and everything else to do such a job. When we cannot support the proposal, it is because we believe that the task of involving citizens in the legislation is already part of Parliament's core task. Democracy is not just an exercise, we do about every four years when we go to the ballot boxes. No, democracy is a culture anchored in the Folketing, in our educational institutions, in our public authorities and in civil society. The foundations of democracy are freedoms and their safeguarding. We fully agree with the alternative that we need to awaken democracy, that we need to have more debate and a better anchoring of the values we sometimes take for granted in here. Children and young people should know that when they can speak freely and criticise leaders and rulers, it is no coincidence. This is because of deliberate choices made by our ancestors, because of our constitution, and because of the fact that we uphold democracy and Western values in our societies. We do not want to introduce a new institution into the Folketing, which is to carry out a task that the Folketing is already carrying out and should be doing today. Legislation must always be consulted; citizens and associations must be able to enter delegations that we know from our committees; citizens must be able to form associations in order to bring about change or possibly a new party. Generally speaking, in LA we want to make legislation more transparent. In fact, this is the first thing we should do to give citizens more influence and overview. Take e.g. the lease law or the rules for employment and activation. It's something with 20,000 pages or something like that. No one can see through them, and we think that is a democratic problem. We must clean up after ourselves and remove legislation that is irrelevant or outdated. This will give citizens a better opportunity to gain insight and to seek influence, and we actually think that we should start there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129144405	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr Seligman. Per Stig Møller for Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129144419	Thank you. I was enjoying the radical speech. In other words, there were huge numbers of initiatives taken by this government. All I needed was for the Radical Left also to announce that they had invented democracy and the Internet. I believe, frankly, that we have been engaged in a long process in which the development of democracy has taken place all the time, under virtually all governments since 1901, which have put their minds to it. Our entire society is imbued with democracy. We have it on school councils; we have it on student councils, it was already in the 1960s; we have it on student councils; we have it on church councils, it was in 1903, I think; we have senior councils; we have board of directors of sports organisations; we have board of directors of resident associations; we have board of directors of landowners' associations; we have boards of waterworks associations; and we have employee-elected board members in private companies, and that was introduced, I believe, around the 1970s. So it is a process that has always developed and in which we have involved the citizens. So with regard to this centre for citizen involvement, it has to be said that citizen involvement is taking place abundantly. It must also take place, and it is very much allowed to spread, but it is not a special party invention. It is a process of development which has been under way and which, of course, the citizens enjoy. There are also, as the Minister pointed out, very high percentages of votes. So Denmark is a democratic country that wants to maintain democracy and develop it, what all these initiatives show, and what the creation of the party The Alternative shows: that there is a constant will for democracy development. There is democracy research, which has been highlighted by several rapporteurs, who have mentioned several examples of it in many places. So that's not where the problem lies. The problem is, and Mr. Uffe Elbæk also in one of his brief remarks, the representativeness of the parties, and I agree with that. There we have a very big problem. The Folketing is not representative, either in terms of age or profession, the Folketing is representative, and that is of course a problem because only 4%. of the population are members of the parties and voters have only party members to vote on. And the 4%. are not all available to be set up. I mean, all those over 70 years of age can't be set up. And all those who have received income, wife or husband and villa and two children will not be put up because it is too risky to come in here. You risk adding the villa if you go out of the Folketing again. So left are only those who have not completed their studies and have not yet received any work experience which can be elected to the Folketing. That's 1 per cent. back, and the one percent are then the rulers of Denmark. And there I have always said: it is incredibly fortunate that it is also the smartest, the most beautiful and the best. But that's good luck. However, I do not believe that we can put Parliament to ensure that the representativeness of the parties improves. We cannot put a research institution in the Folketing to save the parties. It is a work which must take place in the parties in interaction with the electorate and by examining why one is not interested. There are many reasons for this. And how we get more citizens involved and make it possible for more citizens to come in here is of course very, very important if the representativeness of the Folketing is to be better than it is, because it is very bad. I just don't think it's gonna be solved by putting the Folketing into research for the parties. It could of course have been said that it could be referred to the Constitutional Commission, but it has been abandoned by the government. So we cannot refer it there either. But summa summarum for what I am going to say here is that I do not really see that this proposal solves the biggest problem, which is the representativeness of the Folketing. It is not the Folketing that we can set to save the parties and ensure that there are research departments in the Folketing for the parties. The parties must find out for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129144804	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129144823	My energy came all the way up after I heard the last speaker it was so nicely engaging and it's quite right, as Mr. Per Stig Møller says that we have a long, proud democratic tradition in Denmark and that it is something that must always be kept alive and developed. We have to discuss it, and we have been given the chance to do so here today. The proposal to set up a centre for citizen involvement and democracy development follows on from the proposal that I also had before me in the Chamber last week for an open ministry. Both initiatives, you might say, are based on a deep concern about how we can bridge the gap between the citizens on the one hand and the elected politicians on the other. For even though the government minister and the rapporteurs of the governing parties have said that democracy is very good as it is today and that there are a lot of good initiatives, there is still a very serious bottom line, namely that there is a huge deep gap of trust between the citizens and us in the Folketing. We are the lowest on the confidence barometers; just above us are the secondhand car dealers, and right above them are the journalists. And that's where we're messing around. At the same time, fewer and fewer people want to be members of a political party and participate in the political discussions there. Fortunately, we have some young people who come in and see the debates in this Chamber, among others. Here today. When it comes to turnout, it is true that we are high in Denmark compared to turnout, and good for it. Let us continue to work to ensure that this is the case tomorrow. But if you go down and look at the turnout among young people, you see that it is receding. It is into the seriousness that this proposal has been born. As I said, how can we ensure both a mapping, development and registration of best practice, how can we set citizens-driven initiatives in motion, both at local, regional and national level? How can we focus attention on developing democracy, as we know it today, and as it should look tomorrow? That is why, as I said, I have proposed a centre for citizen involvement and democracy development. In the paper I have outlined what I could imagine in terms of board and number of employees, but in today's debate there have also been several good suggestions: could one imagine involving the Board of Technology in this work? I am completely open to that discussion. I also think that the SF gave some good thought to whether it should look exactly the way it has been presented here. I hope that the committee will be able to present a report or a report on what is pointing forward. What also makes me happy about the reception that has been given, although right now there is a political majority against it, is that there are both parties from the opposition and parties from the government bloc who see an idea in this. And even those who say they will vote no say that it is actually something similar to what they themselves have proposed in various party programmes. So there is something in it that is definitely worth working on. My hope is, of course, that a new democratic bridge will be built between what we are discussing in here at Christiansborg and all the things that are going on out there in society in everyday life. Because if we don't build this new democratic bridge and there can be many good building blocks in that bridge; some of them are already under way by the government, but more stones can be laid; this is, as I said, a bid for it, and in the long term it is the legitimacy of representative democracy that is under threat. It is not because I have to stand here and do it better than it is, but when you see what is happening in Europe, when you look at the trust figures that lie between us and the citizens, then I am genuinely concerned. That is why, of course, I will support all the good initiatives that can help to strengthen the living democracy out there. This is my suggestion for one of the possible initiatives. I welcome the reception this proposal has received in this Chamber from both sides of the dividing line between the government bloc and the opposition, and I look forward sincerely to the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129145313	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150129145331	Today there are the following announcements: Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 128 (Proposal for a law for the Faroe Islands on capital requirements and prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms) and Bill No. L 129 (Proposal for a law for Greenland on capital requirements and prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 3 February 2015, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website and will also refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
