ParlaMint-DK_20150325130022	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Culture (Marianne Jelved): Bill no. L 168 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Archives. Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill No. L 169 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy. Bill No. L 170 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Morten Østergaard): Bill no. L 171 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 172 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Companies, the Law on Certain Businesses, the Law on Preventive Measures against the Laundering of Profits and the Financing of Terrorism and the Tax Control Act. Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 173 (Proposal for a law amending the law on gambling, the law on gambling, the law on certain games and various other laws. Transport Minister (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 174 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods and the law on bus services. Bill No. L 175 (Proposal for a law on the construction of a new Storstrøm bridge and demolition of the existing Storstrøm bridge). Minister for Climate, Energy and Building (Rasmus Helveg Petersen): Bill no. L 176 (Proposal for a law on a system of financial risk coverage for geothermal drilling) and Bill No. L 177 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Heat Supply and Construction. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 104 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the provisions of the Criminal Code on trafficking in human beings). Christian Juhl (EL) and Nikolaj Villumsen (EL): Enquiry no. F 33 (In the light of the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report on motion for a resolution No. B 40 (on Western Sahara) of 29 April 2014, explain what the Government has done and will do to prevent Danish companies from engaging in commercial activities that legitimise Morocco's policy in and towards Western Sahara, thereby taking sides and preventing an early resolution of the Western Sahara conflict, and will the Foreign Minister also explain his position on the forthcoming renewal and possible extension of the MINURSO mandate of the UN?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). To Parliament's agenda here today, the Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the business sector and the regulation 2014. R 11). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325130257	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 26 March 2015. That is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Peter Skaarup, to justify. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325130344	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity for us to hold this urgent question in the Danish Parliament on anti-radicalisation efforts in Danish prisons. It is clear that the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen on 14 and 15 February question what we are doing in our prisons, but also after inmates have been released, in relation to the radicalisation we have seen taking place. We know that there is a very extensive radicalisation among Muslim inmates in Danish prisons in particular. About a fifth of the Syrian warriors known to the police intelligence service have been convicted in the past, and we must assume that many of them have been radicalised or further radicalised during their imprisonment. In the period between the end of 2012 and March 2015, the Department of Police sent radicalisation reports on approx. Sixty inmates on to the police intelligence service, we've been informed. That figure has increased significantly in relation to the situation just after the terrorist attack in France, where the Criminal Services reported that they were 39 inmates, they had been transferred to PET at that time and they had been discovered to have been radicalised while they had been in prison. So it is clear that it puts some questions on the part of the parliamentary parties, in relation to what we do then, we do well enough when the figure can change from 39 to 60 in a very short time. The Minister of Justice then told last week at a press conference in the Ministry of Justice that it might well be that it was more than 60 radicalised people. So we hope in this debate that we can both get the government to tell us what is happening here and now to take action against radicalised people in prisons and afterwards, and what is happening in relation to the 60 people that have been found to be radicalised. Exciting questions and important questions are, of course, to clarify where the 60 are now. Are they released? Are they on the loose? Are they still in prison? And what are the authorities doing to those concerned? So we listen very much to what the government comes from information and what the government will do here and now to avoid radicalisation in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325130618	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice for the Response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325130632	Thank you. Let me start by saying that the terrorist attack against Denmark on 14-15 February naturally raises and has raised a number of questions about whether we in Denmark are good enough to prevent the radicalisation, the undemocratic tendencies, the dark forces that do not want the Danish society well. After all, the terrorist battle against Denmark showed us with all its cruel clarity that there are forces, even in our own society, that do not want democracy, which is not left to resort to funds that do not belong to an open, free and democratic Denmark and that have the will, in a brutal way, to destroy our free society if we do not have the ability to match them. The whole question of criminal justice is absolutely relevant in this respect. I have said it on other occasions, and I would like to say it very clearly again: from the government's point of view, the position is quite clear and clear: we do not want Danish prisons, detention houses, the institutions of criminal justice to be incubated for radicalisation at all. And we are using the methods necessary to put an end to radicalisation, to monitor it and to provide the necessary level of transparency and, of course, democracy in our criminal services. I have been asked in the question here both to say what kind of anti-radicalisation is taking place in criminal justice and what initiatives the government intends to take. It has to be said, also on the basis of the number of notifications received from criminal services, that we have problems with radicalisation in Danish prisons. We should not be surprised. This is a trend and development that we have seen in a number of other comparable countries. What is crucial, I would like to say, is that when radicalisation is found in a Danish prison, the police intelligence service is, of course, informed. Because it is organised in Denmark that it is our secret service that is the crux of the fight against terrorism and its prevention. I come back to many of the other initiatives and important areas of action. The most important thing for me, as Minister of Justice, is to be sure that any undemocratic tendency, any attempt to radicalise, any support for terror, of course, is immediately admitted to PET, so that our intelligence service has the necessary knowledge of what is going on and can react to it. When, last week, we received the first part of the evaluation of the efforts of the authorities in connection with the terrorist attack on Copenhagen, it became clear to me, like others, that the systematic information from the criminal services to PET has not been good enough. That is why we have already chosen to tighten up so that every movement out there in the criminal services, when it comes to radicalisation, is, of course, informed (1) to PET, 2) to a central unit in the criminal services, so that it will never be the individual employee who is responsible alone. In addition, we recently made a broad political agreement in the Folketing with all the parties of the Danish Parliament, with the exception of the Enhedslisten, where we strengthen efforts on anti-radicalisation, including efforts in prisons and in criminal justice in general. At the same time, however, I think it has to be said that with the movements that are taking place both in Denmark and in other parts of Europe, we need to look at the efforts of the criminal services in the field of anti-radicalisation, and I mean all the nails. That is why the government has decided as part of our overall terrorist plan that there should be a proper evaluation of the overall anti-radicalisation strategy. When that evaluation is available at the end of April, the beginning of May, we will start political discussions with the conciliation circle behind the Department of Justice's economy with a view to reaching a political agreement before the evaluation carried out in the field of criminal justice here in the very short space of time has already reached Parliament last week. I do not want to dwell on that here, because I assume that everyone in the Chamber has read it or, at least, informed themselves in it. Perhaps I would also like to point out that the prerequisite for us to be able to work decisively in the field of criminal justice both against radicalisation and with the follow-up work in general is, of course, that the staff in the field of criminal justice are dressed for the task. At the moment, the Department of Justice has already decided that education is an important area of action. Education in spotting radicalised tendencies is part of basic education, and it is also part of the introduction process for what we call civilian staff in criminal services. In addition, selected staff from all institutions of the Criminal Services are trained in order to identify signs of radicalisation or extremist behaviour, moreover, among the inmates. This knowledge must, of course, be shared with other employees, and in both April and May there will be themed days in the criminal services of the staff. As I said before, the reporting system in relation to PET is, in my view, the most important thing, because it is our intelligence service that needs to be provided with all the necessary information. As I said before, the reports from criminal services to PET have now been tightened up, and at the same time it is ensured that a central unit in the criminal services gathers all the information that is available. And it is in order that a small specialized group of employees can look through all the material and assess how to follow up the concerns that may be associated with it, and also assess whether it is necessary here and now to initiate the coercive procedure. It may be visitor control, it may be letter control, it may be increased use of exclusion from the community or said in Danish: more isolation detention. And, of course, it may also be to assess whether the persons concerned are suitable and motivated to participate in the mentoring that is possible, in the field of criminal justice, so as to turn their backs on extremism. The mentoring process currently under way has been developed and implemented in the period from 2011 to 2014. Those are targeted individuals convicted under terrorist law and those who, moreover, show signs of radicalisation. 11 mentor courses have been started, 6 are still in progress and 6 new courses are being set up. We have decided in the pool to continue that effort and allocate the funds to develop it too. I think that is a wise decision. I must also say that I do not believe that mentoring can stand alone. I think that if we are capable, we will be able to get some of those who want radicalisation to turn their backs on it together. But I think we must also say to each other frankly that there are so undemocratic tendencies and forces in our society that it is not the soft methods and tools that can be used; they must be put to good use hard. I am in no way deterred by the idea of using more isolation prisons or otherwise separating prisoners from each other, so that we avoid the radicalised thoughts spreading even more. That's some of what the D.A.'s in the process of uncovering. Of course, I am also very concerned about whether we can separate the problematic prisoners even more from each other, so that no one is using prisons to incite radicalisation. Finally, may I say in relation to today's debate that I am not one of those who believe that if a single authority, including the Department of Criminal Affairs, had acted differently in the period up to 14-15 February, it would necessarily have seen a different course from the tragic one we saw on the streets of Copenhagen. I am of the absolute opinion that responsibility for the terrorist attack is the perpetrator's alone and not everyone else's. That doesn't mean, of course, that we can't get any better than we are. We are well in the process of doing so, and I welcome the fact that a broad majority of Parliament's parties have already given each other a hand in making a political agreement to combat more radicalisation in Danish prisons. I expect we can have that deal before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325131629	Thank you, Minister. And then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325131645	Thank you to the Minister for reviewing the things the government is planning to do. In particular, I noticed that it was said that an evaluation should be made of an effort in the Department of Crime on these matters by the summer, and that it might also be possible to agree on some initiatives on this basis. It is, of course, a good thing if it goes in this direction, and that is also the aim of a debate like this one, namely to try to push for the government not only to speak but also to act. That is really what is important to us. As I said in the opening remarks, it is, after all, a great challenge for our society that there is radicalisation in prisons, but also outside prisons. After the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, the seriousness must be clear to everyone. In a reply to the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, which we have submitted in the Danish People's Party, the Minister for Justice has explained that about one in five of the so-called Syrian Warriors are previously punished. And perhaps, probably, they have been radicalised in prisons, and we absolutely must take every possible action to do so. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we have put forward several constructive proposals, we think, and have for a long time urged the government to take stronger and more stringent measures to counteract radicalisation in all aspects of our society, but also in relation to what is happening in prisons. That is why I am also pleased that, on the 11 points that were put forward last Thursday, the government is suggesting that we want to tighten things up, among other things. I'm in the Department of Investigation. It is gratifying, but what is so important is that you not only say something about these 11 points, but also act as I said. There I would like to say that the 11 points and challenges that have come from the government are all points with which the Danish People's Party agrees, and I think other parties in the Folketing are also. The only question is, when is it gonna happen? Here it is, of course, that the problems arise, because what is the situation with the government's action so far is that it is said that the Department of Criminal Services should map some things we heard it ourselves and have to evaluate some things. The DA's gonna have to explain a few things. The Criminal Services Committee has to assess some things. The Criminal Court has to assess some things about parole and the like. The court board can make a presentation. The DA's gotta look at some things again. There are a lot of statements and a lot of assessments that need to be made, but the fact is that something is happening now and here. Of course one should be thorough, no doubt about it, but many of these issues are political issues, we have discussed in here many times, where the Left, where the Conservatives, where the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party have put forward proposals that we should tighten up the rules on parole, so as to serve full time if it is that you are hardened criminal. The government doesn't really listen to that. The only thing you really say is that it has to be looked at by the Criminal Code Council. That's very nice. But the Penal Code Council can return in full and half years, when we have had parliamentary elections, and when we have had new terrorist attacks we do not know what is going to happen and therefore it is important to act now on the part of the government. We must take firmer action, and that is also the question and the relationship of the 60 prisoners in prisons, as a minimum we know that we have become so aware of radicalisation that it has been passed on to PET. The Minister said last week that the question of the 60 may not have been finally answered. It may well be that more than 60 people have been radicalised, and what we asked here at the beginning of the debate I would like to hear what the Minister will say now or later in the debate is what happens to the 60. Are they released? Are they on the loose? Where are they? What do you do? It must be in the interest of the government that there should be an answer to that. We in the Folketing intend to propose a proposal for adoption from a number of parties, for which we hope a majority can be created, and I will just read it out. This is done on behalf of the Left, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party. It sounds like this: Suggested adoption The Parliament instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives for effective action against radicalisation in prisons right now. Efforts must prevent criminals from becoming radicalised Islamists while they are incarcerated. The government is immediately required to tighten the rules on parole and punishment and to ensure stronger cooperation between the authorities against radicalisation. • V 35).
ParlaMint-DK_20150325132205	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325132224	Thank you. And first of all, thank you to the authors, i.e. the Danish People's Party, for raising this urgent question. I should also like to thank the Minister for answering the question, although we could now have hoped in a number of areas that the Minister had said something different from what the Minister has said. I will come back to that. But the question itself arises, among other things. of the tragic terrorist attack on the Krudtønde and the Jewish synagogue in Copenhagen, which took place in mid-February. It was an attack that made it clear to everyone that there is religious extremism, among other things. among a group of Danish Muslims who do not shy away from spreading fear and horror with violence. At the same time, it also stresses the need for this debate on anti-radicalism efforts, and, above all, it underlines the need for us politicians not only to leave alone the many words and expressions that came into the days after the terrorist attack and afterwards, but to act. We must, of course, act carefully and sensibly against the background of the recent terrorist attack and, unfortunately, many examples of radicalisation that occur in Danish society as well as in Danish prisons. I have to say that for me and the Left it is surprising that there have been 60 cases of reports from the criminal services to the PET over a number of years and that there has been no more and more focus on this problem by the government and the criminal services. There are a whole series of questions that I would like to put on behalf of the Left to the government, and I hope that I will be able to do so during this debate. PET recently presented a study which explicitly showed that there will be more radicalised criminals. Some one-fifth of the people who went to Syria or Northern Iraq to participate in the armed conflict for the Islamic State have previously been sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence. It may be information that is new to the Folketing, but they cannot be new to either the criminal services or the government. PET's Center for Terror Analysis wrote it already a year ago. I think it is more than a year ago and therefore I am very surprised that no more has happened in the criminal services and also that the government has not acted anymore. However, some of this may be about the fact that we have had a large number of different justice ministers and that it takes some time to get into matters. This sometimes leads to the lack of the necessary political focus on some of the problems, and I think we have to note that, unfortunately, this is one of the areas where there has been insufficient political focus. But these figures from the Centre for Terror Analysis from PET clearly underline that we have a problem and that it is certainly not a problem that has been reduced by the apparent link between serious gang crime, Syria and terrorism. That is why we need not only to allow the eyes to fall on people's past in prisons, but also to focus on what is happening in society, for example. I'm a gangster. We are, of course, pleased with the legal policy reversal made by the Minister of Justice and the government last week, when the government suddenly thought that a large number of proposals put forward by the bourgeois parties in this Chamber were sensible enough. Perhaps this is because the cover-up of the alleged perpetrator of the terrorist attack shows that in Danish society, in criminal justice, a long way along the way, the red carpet has been rolled off for people like the alleged perpetrator, and that there is a need to tighten up the rest penalty, parole and a large number of other things in relation to efforts to radicalise. We are delighted that the government now wants to be a part of this. However, we are a little worried that we will be able to do something about it on this side of a parliamentary election. And we do not understand, if there is agreement on this in the Folketing, why this sudden consensus should not then be used and translated into quick and effective action, but instead focus on committees and procedural discussions. But with those words, of course, I should like to thank you for the debate we can have here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325132636	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Hækkerup, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325132648	Thank you, Madam President. The question here arises, as has already been mentioned, from the need for Danish society to oppose radicalisation and extremism. The Minister already said in his speech that we need to fight hard in the fight against radicalisation and extremism. I must say straight away that our usual legal rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen, has no opportunity to be here today, and that is why I have had the pleasure of reading the rapporteur's speech. Indeed, we must take a hard line, both against extremism and against radicalisation, and this is really true both in prisons and outside prisons. It goes without saying that Danish prisons must under no circumstances act as hatcheries for extremism. We must identify those people who are at risk of becoming part of the extremist environments, and we must take action against criminals who spread extremist attitudes and try to corrupt fellow prisoners. If we are really going to solve this problem, it is both necessary that we do something here and now, and that we also take new initiatives that are based on concrete knowledge and focus on impact. On the basis of the latest report on Criminal Services, the Minister of Justice has presented 11 concrete actions to strengthen efforts to combat radicalisation. Some of them have already been implemented, others need an enhanced legal basis. However, it remains to be seen that the challenges are being addressed. Prison officers and other relevant staff must, of course, be razor-sharp at spotting and reporting signs of radicalisation. In order to ensure that all signs are followed up, the Department of Investigation has already established a new reporting procedure with clear procedures for how and when reports to PET should be made. In addition, it is essential that the municipalities, the prison system and the courts are better able to talk, so that no one in the risk group is released without being under the necessary supervision. We know that preventing radicalisation is essential to limit the risk of extremism. This is why the government has been constantly focusing on anti-radicalisation, which ended in January at the latest with a major agreement across the Danish Parliament's parties. Here too, we need to follow developments and are ready to take new initiatives if necessary. As Social Democrats, we will not accept the radicalisation of young people. We have to take action everywhere, including in the prisons, and we note that the parties in the district of criminal justice agree to discuss both the 11 concrete actions already presented and the subsequent initiatives that may prove necessary. No one should be in any doubt that we are deeply serious about this issue, both when it comes to dealing here and now, but also when it requires new initiatives and hard work. Against this background, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten, I should like to make the following points: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the change in the procedure for reporting radicalised inmates and the follow-up of criminal services. The Danish Parliament notes that the government will ensure that the anti-radicalisation initiatives resulting from the evaluation, for example: Increased separation and enhanced regulatory cooperation, implemented and prioritised. The initiatives will be discussed with the Conciliation Committee in May 2015. V 36).
ParlaMint-DK_20150325132952	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325132959	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur two questions. One is: does the rapporteur for the Socialist Group not think that it is untenable that we do not have complete clarity as to what the situation is with the 60 people who have been found to be radicalised in prisons? What does the rapporteur think should happen in relation to the 60 people or more the minister said last week that the minister was not aware of whether it might be more? That is one question. The second is: Does Mr. Ole Hækkerup, that it's okay for radicalized people to be allowed to be paroled early? Nowadays, you typically get paroled after two thirds of serving, maybe half serving. Would it not be reasonable for us to tighten up so that radicalised people, if we find that this is what is at stake, sit full-time, so that during that period we have a complete overview of what they are doing if it is that it is going to further radicalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133058	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133100	Thank you, there were a few questions, firstly, about what to do in the future. I think and so I also heard the Minister and those who have so far been on the floor and had the floor say that if you look at how it has worked so far in the criminal services; that if you look at how it has worked so far in the Danish society, the answer to the question is whether we have to do it even better: yes, we have to. One of the things that has already been initiated is the pooling of information in criminal justice. I think it is right and sensible to do so. One might then ask oneself: would it have been nice if we had had that discussion and made that decision ten years ago? Yes, of course it would have been. What is interesting here is to ask: what can we do here and now? And that's one of the many things we can do right now. But we also need to do more in the long run. It is in relation to those who are radicalised. That is in relation to saying what we can do both now and in the longer term. Then there is the question of whether the means of action which are available in criminal services are parole, community service, etc. etc. No, I seriously doubt that, and I think it is true when the government has played out and just had those points on its 11-point list where they say: that is some of what we need to look at. Because there are some instruments that work on a type of prisoner who has a particular problem, but it is quite a different situation if we have some who are radicalised or are being radicalised. Then we shall see if we can spread them, if we can distribute them in different places. We're gonna have to get this all figured out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133220	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133223	I do not really think I heard the answers to my two questions, so I will repeat them. Does the rapporteur not agree that we should have a full account of where the 60 people who have been radicalised in prisons, of whom the terrorist from Copenhagen was one, are? Are they released? Are they on the loose? Where are they in our society right now? That is one question. The second question was whether the Socialist rapporteur does not agree that it is untenable that early on we should parol people who are radicalised and present a danger in our society. I would actually just like to get some assurances from the rapporteur, on the one hand, that we will get the figures straightened out, so what happens to the 60 people, on the other hand, that full time should be given to radicalised people, that is, that we should not let some people out early, which is a danger to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133320	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133322	I do not know whether someone has been released early in community service, parole or anything else that has been assumed to have been radicalised. This is not something I know, at least not on a stand-by basis. If you then ask what my attitude is to apply this kind of means to those who are radicalised, I would say that in many ways it sounds like a really, really bad idea. I do not believe it makes much sense to say that preventive social work must now be done in relation to those who are radicalised. That is why I am glad that exactly that is part of the 11 measures that say: we need to look at parole, we need to look at residual punishment, we need to look at conditional sentences, we need to look at community service and all this. It's because I don't believe that those soft drugs are good for the hard criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133409	Thank you. You have to be careful with the direct charges. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133414	Thank you. The question to Mr. Ole Hækkerup goes on what is happening and which I understand is one of the things you can do, but which you did not see, as I understand it, do to a particularly large extent. More could be done to isolate the prisoners who are radicalised from the other prisoners, so that there is no chance that they will mark any of the others and that they may make sure that there are some who are not radicalised, who will then be forward-looking, because they are in contact with some of those who, apart from having committed crime, have a more extreme view of how a society should be organized and, in their ideology, find arguments to take terrible action. How does the rapporteur view such measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133453	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133455	I fundamentally welcome them. I simply have the approach to the fact that we are in a situation where we see an extremism in which we see radicalisation both within prisons and outside prisons. And I do not think we should leave any instrument untested to see how we can deal with that problem. After all, I agree with what has been going on in the public debate recently, namely that there seems to be a greater and greater overlap between crime and radicalisation, in other words, in a more religious direction, and that is why we have some of this. But I am not going around imagining that we should set limits on what we should do in that fight. On the contrary. We have to try things differently, and if separating people is something that works well, and I could imagine it was alive, then I think that we should go further along that track.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133534	Sir. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133537	Thank you for that answer. Then I would like to ask how the Social Democrats, and indeed the government, view the Imams in the Danish prisons. Because we have seen that unfortunately there have been cases where some mosques and some religious preachers, i.e. imams, have simply helped radicalise some young people in Denmark. And they're in prison, too. So how do you look at it? Should the Imams continue to be there, in the view of the Socialists, and if you think they should be there, you will be prepared to discuss whether you get, for example. Improved supervision of what's going on in some of these environments inside the prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133618	Thank you, and that is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133619	Both in prisons and outside prisons, we can only in the strongest possible terms disapprove of the radicalisation advocated by some. Should we get as much as possible under control of what is being said in our prisons by those we let into prisons; what kind of idea of society they convey? Yeah, we're gonna have that. Anything we can do. It should not be the case that you can get the free pass into the prisons and then start radicalising people. So, of course, we need to get this under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133655	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado of the Conservatives, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133700	I think there are many who have taken the view that it can be difficult to do something about the operation of the Imams inside prisons, because it is also a matter of confidentiality. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur directly whether the rapporteur intends to tighten up those requirements and try to see how far it is possible to go in relation to this obligation of professional secrecy. I am thinking here of the fact that if there is now a radicalised fundamentalist who tells an imam about details that could be valuable to PET, where is the balance for Social Democracy in relation to reporting to PET?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133748	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133749	Everything we do in prison must have the aim of ensuring that people are not radicalised, and for me the Imams are part of that effort. And if you can demonstrate anything at all, and it is of course the criminal service's responsibility that works in the field of criminal justice, which is against that purpose, then you have to take care to take action against it. That is why I imagine the way in which imams are used in prisons should be something that helps to get people out of radicalisation. I think that is absolutely crucial. Exactly how are you supposed to handle this task in the Department of Crime? This must be entirely determined by the objective of everything that is going on being directed against preventing radicalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133833	Thank you. Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133836	It is actually quite interesting. Well, now it may be that I'm overinterpreting Mr. Knox. The words of Ole Hækkerup, but it might sound as if the Socialists too would like to challenge the confidentiality which exists today and which, of course, means that there is some information that we cannot go further because we are bound by the obligation of professional secrecy. So I would just like to ask for some clarification. Is it to be understood that the Social Democrats want to go in and bend the confidentiality which applies to imams and, incidentally, other preachers in prisons today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133911	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325133913	I understand that the imams that operate in prisons are also subject to the demands that, overall, there are for what the Department of Justice is supposed to solve, and that is to say, the imams. It is not, of course, the case that they are able to function freely, no, as part of criminal justice, they must help solve the problems that we have put in place for the purpose of resolving, including preventing radicalisation. That is what is basically working, and that is why I have the expectation that if any of the imams come across something that is about radicalisation, they will also help to solve that problem. It is simply because the imams that are going to be entering prisons should not be anyone who promotes radicalisation, but rather get us in the opposite direction. So those imams, like everything else in the Criminal Services, must work with regard to the overall objective of preventing radicalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134003	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134006	Thank you. It's kind of just a clear question. To be specific, there was a story in one of the newspapers that Said Mansour, who was convicted of spreading hate propaganda and calling for the murder of Jews, was sitting in prison spreading his hate propaganda, and I just wanted to know what people are going to do about types like him. Because I certainly believe that he could be isolated so that he did not radicalise other people and that, therefore, we could really start to isolate these types of people who are calling for terror and who are against everything that Denmark stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134052	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134055	What the Department of Justice has chosen to do in this very specific case, I do not know on a stand-by basis, nor am I sure that it is necessarily right if we in the Assembly Hall have in every case a discussion of what the Department of Criminal Services has done. But if you ask what is my basic position, then the following is the following: especially when you have people in the institutions of society, as a prison in some way, do what you can to prevent them from influencing other prisoners in a radicalised direction. Does this also mean that you have to isolate some people, put them in different prison wards or isolate them entirely from other prisoners? Yes, that may well mean, and that is why I will come back to what I started by saying, namely that there is, in my view, no remedy that is sacred to me when it comes to asking: how do we avoid radicalisation in prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134141	Thank you, and we still don't address each other directly here in the Folketing. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134149	Thank you. Then there is another matter that I have dealt with a little, and the examples are of an older date, but these are people who have been suspected of endangering the security of the empire and who, because of a stateless convention, have nevertheless been granted citizenship. I regard these people there at least as those who are contributing to radicalisation, since they are in the spotlight of PET, and I assume that they are suspects of terrorist activity and crimes against the state. And I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party has changed its position on the fact that these people must continue to be covered by the stateless Convention and thus automatically acquire citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134237	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134237-2	No, we haven't changed our mind. I think the question may be a little on the edge of the question as to what we are doing about radicalisation in prisons. But if I have to answer the question directly, I would say: No, we have not changed our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134259	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134308	Thank you, Madam President, and first of all thank you to the Minister for a fine speech, and I would also like to thank the other rapporteurs who have been on before me, because it is clear that we share the intention that prisons should not become a hotbed of extremism. We Radicals believe that more can be done to ensure that this does not happen. I think that the Danish prison officers do a good job, but I think that we can do even more to give criminal services and employees better opportunities to ensure anti-radicalisation and not the opposite. That is why I am pleased that the Minister has already taken the initiative to look at a number of areas, both better training and exchange of experience between criminal services staff, this applies to clearer procedures for dealing with signs of radicalisation, and this applies to better cooperation with PET on signs of radicalisation. In addition, there are other good means and measures that have also been taken in the past in the toolbox, such as: their mentoring arrangements, that is to say good measures. Then we radicals also look forward to the final statement, which the Minister told us will come back in May. We must become wiser and we must do everything possible to prevent radicalisation from taking place in the Danish prisons. We have taken the first step, and there are others, and we Radicals would like to take responsibility for this. That is why we can support the proposal for adoption presented by the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Ole Hækkerup. Moreover, we look forward to further discussion with the other legal rapporteurs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a couple of questioners. Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134452	Thank you. I would like to know where the Radical Left is in relation to these things. One might well get that suspicion when one looks at the lack of action by the government, as I have already explained here in the debate, that it is because the Radicals are in government. When I see it in this way, it is because the Radicals have traditionally been on what might be called the sluggish side when it comes to legal policy and the fight against radicalisation. It may be that the rapporteur does not agree, but that is at least the assessment I have when I look at the political picture. I'd like to know if Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen will be involved in implementing the 11 points presented by the Minister for Justice at the press meeting this Thursday. I am thinking of austerity in relation to parole; I am thinking of austerity in relation to focusing on where those concerned are, i.e. those who are radicalised. Will the Radicals be involved in this without us having to hear the Criminal Code Council, the Criminal Procedure Committee, the Attorney General, the Criminal Services Department, that is, those who are shooting things at corner kicks? Will the Radicals wholeheartedly help tighten up these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134612	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134614	I don't know exactly where to start, you know. I think it was some pretty serious suspicions, as Mr. Peter Skaarup aimed at me and my party. Mr. Peter Skaarup really that the Radical Left is responsible for the radicalisation that might take place in Danish prisons? In any case, I think that is a gross accusation, although I know that it was a brief remark to the undersigned, who came from Mr. Peter Skaarup. I'm just hoping that sir... Peter Skaarup will solve this for us. So to the question of where the Radical Left is generally in relation to this question. Sir. Peter Skaarup calls it such a relaxing side etc. And yes, the Radical Left is in favour of rehabilitation; yes, the Radical Left is in favour of prisons trying to get people out of crime. However, anti-radicalisation is certainly also something that we fully support. We absolutely support the fact that we are looking at whether we can ensure that people are not radicalised; we fully support the fact that, in the case of people being radicalised despite attempts to avoid it, we must, of course, keep an eye on people. And yes, that is why, of course, we in the Radical Left can also support the points made by the Minister for Justice last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134727	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134728	I would like to ask Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen, whether the Radicals will help to ensure that we remove the possibility of parole when it comes to radicalised people, because that is one of the things that lies just before us, given what has happened in Copenhagen with regard to the terrorist attack; but also in relation to the fact that there are so-called radicalizers in prisons, i.e. Islamists who want to incite others to hatred of Danish society. Will the Radicals help us to tighten up on parole so that people who have radicalized do not get parole? They must sit full time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134810	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134812	We are radically involved in examining the issue raised by the Minister for Justice last week. And then I would like to stress that we have no sacred cows on this point. We are open to discussing actions that can ensure that when people are released they do not commit new personal crime. We are, in fact, open to discussing this. But it must be done in a proper and sensible way. It must be done in such a way that the people who want to get out of crime will be able to do so, while we can be more hard-handed towards those people who do not have the same interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134852	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325134856	I think that if some of us consider Radicals to be so relaxed, it might be due to a proposal which the rapporteur himself had some time ago that a prison sentence should be exchanged for a school stay. I remember it clearly. We were some who were falling off the chairs, because it wasn't exactly the case for us who are tough on crime. That is why I am actually a little worried when Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen paints a wonderful painting that now there is an 11-point plan, and then it will be just good when it comes to radicalisation in prisons. But then it may be offset by the fact that there are no sacred cows. Then I should like to take a moment to say to the rapporteur how far the Radical Left is actually prepared to go. Because when you read the proposal put forward by the Minister for Justice, you see that it is actually less far-reaching than what was voted on recently on 26 February, namely whether personal crime, that is, if you have committed violence, should trigger the residual punishment. And since it is less far-reaching than what the government is putting forward, and we have said from the bourgeois side that we can do it tomorrow, I just want to hear Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen, whether the Radicals will also be involved in implementing it tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135007	I think we should be careful to mix this discussion with everything we do in relation to criminal justice. There are many different types of criminals, and I think you can try to get, for example. young criminals, who are no shadow of being radicalised at all, out of crime, while at the same time paying particular attention to the fact that if someone is at risk of being radicalised in one direction or another, we will take care of them. I have not said here from this platform that everything is in the best order. I have just said that there has been a need to take initiatives following this terrible attack in Copenhagen. The Minister for Justice has done so and, moreover, we are looking at working out a proper evaluation and, from this point of view, of course, we will also be radically open to discussing whether further action should be taken. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we have taken the first steps, but there will also be more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135103	Thank you. Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135105	That wasn't an answer, because what I was asking was whether Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen and the Radicals will be in favour of the proposal that we could introduce tomorrow, in other words, put forward legislative proposals for tomorrow, namely that the residual penalty will always be triggered if new personal crimes are committed. And that is not something you need to send in advice and in committee. That is, in fact, a political position. If you go out on parole and commit violence, do you want the rest of the sentence to be released? That is quite a yes or a no, and it is not something you have to send around the Criminal Court. In fact, this is something to which we can give a clear political opinion, and I hope that Mr Delors will do so. Jeppe Mikkelsen is coming with us now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135146	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135148	Well, we're against that as we used to be. I can't remember exactly when we discussed it last, but it was about a month ago, I think. We are against doing that because it is too square a way to do it. It is precisely to cut everyone over a comb. I think that there should be room for individual action so that we take care of the different types of criminals that are and ensure that the effort is targeted at their specific negative path.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135214	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135219	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the positive statement made by the Radical Left that something will be done about the problems of radicalisation, which is why, as I asked the Social Democrat rapporteur, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Radicals: as far as I remember, we have had three cases of persons who have been under the suspicion of being a threat to the security of the empire and who, nevertheless because they have been covered by the stateless Convention, have acquired citizenship? Will the Radicals help to ensure that these people, whom we must certainly suspect of being radicalised, do not receive citizenship under cover of a convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135312	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135314	That question simply has nothing to do with today's question, although it has come from the author's own party, but I would like to reply anyway. No, we have no intention of changing the rules, but that has nothing to do with this question. Then the subject of the question should have been expanded. This is about anti-radicalisation in criminal justice, not citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135334	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135335	I think it has something to do with anti-radicalisation when it is the case that we in the Folketing also have an influence on radicalisation. If we in the Folketing are rewarding people with citizenship who are suspected by PET of being a threat to the security of the empire, and that is to say they are violating the most serious provisions of the penal code, then I think we are helping to promote radicalisation at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135403	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135404	I gave the answer before, but now I just want to say again that the question is therefore about what the Minister can tell us about the anti-radicalisation programme of criminal justice. It is the author's own party who has asked this question, and so it has nothing to do with this question, but I would like to respond. No, we are not going to change the rules referred to by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135433	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135436	Thank you and thank you for the honesty of the radical rapporteur in the previous answers. Because I have to understand that what the Radical Left rapporteur says is that, from a radical point of view, there is little willingness to do anything in relation to the release of the residual sentence. One would like to look at it, because now there has been a terrorist attack, and one cannot rule out the need to move a comma somewhere, but, more generally, to do something about it and tighten it up with residual punishment, parole and a number of other things, the Radical Left is not prepared to do. That's how I understood it, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen said, and I just want to sign for that. That's an honest report. We are politically opposed to this, and I think that is a pity. But that is the way it is, and that is how the Radical Left's position has always been on these things. This has also been the case when we have discussed it in the Parliamentary Assembly, in other words all these proposals which the bourgeois wing has had. There the government says that something quite different is meant now, and we will have to discuss this with the Minister for Justice later, but the Radicals are so sticking to the line they have always had, and I would just like to sign for that. It is not really a question, but it is just a praise to the Radical Left for being honest about what is really meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135542	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135543	I think that's what they call a Judaskys, almost. I thank you, but I do not quite know whether I am going to put my own words as Mr. Karsten Lauritzen did. We are open to looking at residual penalties and other initiatives. We are now looking into this in depth, but I would like to stress first of all that we would very much like to look at differentiating it so that it is targeted at the type of criminal that has a particularly negative career, and not the type of criminal that actually wants to get out of crime. That's one thing. The second point is that, with regard to the specific civil proposal, I also have the general appeal that I think it very much deprives the courts of their function, in the sense that, in the specific case, the courts must always make an estimate, and there may be special circumstances which we in the Chamber cannot foresee and which do not need to trigger the whole residual penalty. And that is why we have probably been a little reluctant about it from a radical point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135638	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for this rapporteur. The next is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325135659	For many years we have been living with a terrorist threat which we certainly hoped would never result in a concrete attack. We have had a good intelligence service that has thwarted a few attacks at all. However, our worst thoughts came true in February, when two were killed and more were injured in the attack in Copenhagen. That is why the terrorist attack must be thoughtful. Could we have done more to prevent that? Unfortunately, the unpleasant reality is that we can never guard ourselves 100% against a terrorist attack. But our task is to ensure that we have taken all the precautions we can take. We have in the SF felt it was important to get explanations that made us wiser on what we can learn from the attack so that we can take action with new initiatives. We have had the discussion about the police, and there will probably be a round of two there when we have the full overview of what happened in Copenhagen. And now we are currently in the process of criminal justice. We know that one fifth of the Syrian warriors, for example. is known for crime, so we also know that they will eventually round our prisons. So this is where you have a unique opportunity to discover that they are on their way to being radicalised, and even better to have them helped in the opposite direction. It is therefore crucial that our prisons can deal with radicalised situations, that we have the offers that are needed and, above all, that we have staff who are well trained and can spot signs of radicalisation. In 60 cases, prison staff have actually passed on a concern for radicalisation, and in 11 cases exits have started. We may not think in SF that 11 exits are flashy. We want a starting point where exits are initiated on a matter of concern, so that things are set in motion around the inmate. Then it may well be that you have to cancel this concern, but at least you ensure that an effort is made and that we do not get some people released without them being taken care of and without a mentor following them. It is my view that if you cannot reach them with the offers we have, then you have to think new. After all, we have said and advocated that ex-radicals can play a role in this because they actually know the mindset. They could be the key to reaching these people. We'll get a report on the Department of Criminal Services about about... 1 month. We have appealed for things to be set in motion immediately, but we are pleased that there is a promise that we will have a statement in May and that anti-radicalism initiatives will also come from it. We are concerned about the fact that we are at least as committed to the resources for criminal justice and preventive work in the municipalities as we are to the funds for PET and the police. It is good when we manage to catch the criminals, but the very best thing is that we prevent them from becoming some. We have put forward a number of proposals in the press, among others. on more training for prison staff. Something is coming with the rate pool, but we've been thinking about this Arabic thing in particular, so you can actually understand what is talking about in our prisons, better and more exits, more staff, better releases. In fact, we have also spoken in favour of the isolation of the tone-setting radicalizers, so that they do not affect the others at least. I also heard the Minister of Justice say something like that. She used the term isolation prison, and I hope that is not the case, because I do not think it is good to use isolation prison as such. But at least to have them removed and put them in a slightly safer way sounds like a really smart thing. I look forward to discussing these proposals when the statement is available, but I would like to acknowledge that the Minister for Justice has actually said that she will do something about the release of prisoners in custody. There has been a gap in legislation for many years and if we can get it in place, I am sure we will help a great many others who today fall between two chairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140127	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140130	Thank you. I think it was some good initiatives that the SF's rapporteur said should be emphasised here: better education, sectioning in prisons, so as to avoid radicalised influences on non-radical exits. I might add: why not expel people who are radicalised if they are not Danish citizens? But I noticed last week when the government presented these 11 points, where it was thought that some things had to be looked at, that SF had such impatience, to put it mildly, in relation to that very much or almost all points were shot at corner kicks. It was the Criminal Code Council, it was the Criminal Procedure Committee, and what else you have thoughts about starting to look at it before you could do anything. Does SF really have the patience to follow this in a way where you can count on a lot of the initiatives being sent to corner kicks? Let me just remind you that if the general election is suddenly held, the apparatus will stop. So it is the case that the ministries are being laid down, and then you really leave work in relation to making suggestions in the Folketing. And it can take longer than that. Then the SF couldn't tell us what to do to put pressure on the government? After all, you are a support party and you have some independent opinions, I assume.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140254	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140255	It is clear that we are impatient for something to happen in our prisons. I actually think I'm gonna breathe morning air after many years with a bourgeois government that didn't happen much. Now we actually have the opportunity to do some things. In fact, I was also very pleased with the latest court settlement agreement. A great many of the initiatives which the Minister launched last week were, after all, about various forms of punishment. And what I actually said at the time was that it may well be that we have to look at it, but with all due respect and respect for it I do not think that is what gets people away from extreme thinking, and that is why something else and more needs to be done. At any rate, this is what we want to do primarily in our prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140342	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140343	So it is not worrying that there are 60 people who have been radicalised in prisons and who we basically know nothing about where is right now? Are they released? Where are they? At least the minister hasn't told Parliament anything so far. And it is also right that we continue to parole people who have been radicalised in prisons, with the result that they may be able to commit terrible acts in this country. Is it just okay that we continue in this direction, or does the SF agree that parole for people who are radicalised and pose a threat to our society is not sustainable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140426	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140428	It is clear that if you pose a threat to society, you should not be on parole. So if they have that knowledge in the D.C., I don't think you should be on parole. But it is, of course, a question of whether they have that knowledge in criminal justice or not. At any rate, they already have the opportunity today to refrain from paroling if they think that there may be an opportunity for the paroled person to commit repeat crime or worse. So the possibility already exists. The question is whether we are saying that there should be an automatic in it so that no one who has extreme thinking can be paroled. I would warn against this, because there may in fact be sensible developments, which means that in specific individual cases it may be a good idea to parole.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140510	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140522	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising this question; in fact I think it is a very relevant and important question. On the other hand, it can be said that it also raises some questions to which it is not quite easy to give a clear answer. For, of course, we can agree that rapid and effective action must be taken and that what is needed must be done to prevent people in prison from becoming extreme Islamists who are subsequently willing to commit violence. This must be avoided, just as we must work to ensure, in general terms, that prisons are places where people are not trained to become more criminal than they were in the past. In general, we must work very systematically to ensure that prisons do not end up sending out people who are actually considerably worse off than when they came in. I think that, if you have dealt with this a little, you would say that is a very big general problem, which you have to take a very serious and seriously. I think that is also true in relation to the threat of some developing views that may lead to their being in favour of, and actively supporting, or maybe even carrying out terrorist actions afterwards, that is to say, it needs to be dealt with as nuanced and as different from the individual people and the individual groups of people as you do when it comes to 'if you want to forgive me for the term 'general criminals'. That is why I think it is a good thing that the problem has been addressed by the Department of Justice, and some initiatives have already been taken to counteract this trend. I think it should be very careful to say that the effort they have made per year. the definition is too bad because it has not had a success rate of 100 per cent, because there is not much of the preventive work going on in prisons. I also think it is important, when discussing what needs to be done in the future, to take time to think about what the challenge is, that is, what it is actually for a process that leads to radicalisation and if radicalisation takes place in prisons, about the solution to that challenge is that more people should spend longer in prisons. Perhaps this is not necessarily the best solution if it is the case that radicalisation is taking place in prisons. That is why we think it is sensible to have taken the initiative on what you have if you say that there will be a statement in May. I would just like to say, with my relatively short experience from the Folketing, that it is not slow. Nor was it slow if, during the VK administration, a statement was made within a month. Sir. Peter Skaarup has said before that there is a risk of a choice, and he is right about that. I think that the Danish People's Party usually believes that it should come as soon as possible, and then it is true that it may be a process where not so much happens, but then all the more can happen afterwards. I think that is really sensible. I would just like to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we have helped to reach a settlement on criminal justice and that we are among the conciliation parties that are looking forward to discussing how we can also make new initiatives in the future that can help to ensure that people who go to prison do not leave prison with such an ideology and attitude of life that they are willing to go out and commit terrorist acts afterwards. We think this is really important, and we must work on it all we can at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140919	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325140922	I noted that Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Per Clausen mentioned that we should be aware that sitting in prison was linked to being radicalised. It was on the basis of the information we have that 60 people have been found to be radicalised here in the last little over two years. Should we then, when Enhedslisten here in the Folketing tell us what Enhedslisten thinks, conclude from it that we should not put people in prison? Does Enhedslisten have any other ideas as to what we should do, since it is believed that putting people in prison may be associated with great danger?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141006	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141008	There is no doubt that prisons are one of the tools that is needed, primarily because there is a desire to remove some people from the streets and straits for a period of time, and then there is also a perception that there is a threat that if you commit crimes you can go to prison, some people should not commit crimes. I think that is absolutely right. Then I just think we should be aware that it also has a cost, and the cost is that up to now we have been really, really bad at achieving a positive result in relation to the people who have gone to prison. But it is my clear view that we can do better than that. We can do better in relation to the relapses that are among the people who go to prison and who go straight out and commit crimes again, and we can certainly also be better at preventing so relatively many people from leaving prison with an ideology and an attitude that, if you put it into practice, there are, fortunately, very, very few people who are doing it can lead to acts of terrorism like what we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141113	Sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141115	It was kind of a radical answer, but okay, it's okay; you're allowed to do that. I would like to hear Enhedslisten on the proposals for initiatives put forward by the government last week. It is the case that Enhedslisten is part of this conciliation circle and thus also has the opportunity to sit around the table and influence things in that context, and as a support party you also have good opportunities to ask about the things the government is doing. There I would like to hear: when Enhedslisten says that according to normal practice, when we get a statement in May, does the Enhedslisten not agree that the austerity that one might imagine we were some parties that would like to have is not going very fast? This is true, for example. the question of not paroling radicalized people. This has been asked to be assessed by the Criminal Code Council if it has done so at all. In connection with a number of other matters, various bodies are asked to assess various matters. Do we not agree that things are not going very fast? With regard to, for example, the blasphemy clause, which we have agreed to discuss, it took four years for the Criminal Code Council to assess whether to preserve it or abolish it. So we've had a lot of patience there, haven't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141236	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141243	I'd like to start by saying that if I'm to understand Mr. Simpson... Peter Skaarup so that he thinks that my answer was an attempt to think carefully, both before replying and before action is taken, it is true. It is not all that the Radical Left has historically stood for that is equally stupid and equally wrong. So here we may have hit one of the areas where I have little objection to being called radical. The second point I would like to make is that I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Peter Skaarup in that there are plenty of examples that this government has also been thorough to a degree, so one might call it slow. And I do not believe that the story of the blasphemy clause is to the credit of the government, and I believe that Mrs Pernille Skipper, who usually deals with such matters in our party, has made that clear. Then I would just like to say at the end of the day that we would very much like to enter into negotiations on making changes that we think work in terms of combating radicalisation in prisons, and that is what we are looking forward to negotiating with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141334	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141348	The Danish People's Party has called for urgent questions in relation to what we can do about the radicalisation problems in Danish prisons, and this is an important matter to address. I think it is important to recognise that there are problems with radicalisation in Danish prisons, and this is about radicalisation of so-called Islamists, i.e.. people who have a radical version of Islam or a political version of Islam, and Islamism is today's totalitarian threat in line with fascism, Nazism and Communism in the 20th century. That is why we must oppose the problems that exist, and we must do so as soon as possible, and in this way we share the impatience of the questioners. We have then understood that there will be an evaluation in a month's time and that the Minister for Justice is, of course, planning a course of negotiations in relation to the criminal welfare parties with which the Liberal Alliance is involved, and we are naturally looking forward to taking part in the negotiations in question. From our perspective, there are a number of things that should be done. You had to separate the radical prisoners from the rest. It may be in the form of actual sectioning, so that there are much smaller groups than there are today, so that you get a different kind of socialisation between the prisoners, where it does not become the negatively strong prisoners, so to speak, that will dominate. We need to look at the role of religious ministers in prisons. We need to look at how we can coordinate action between different authorities, communication between different authorities, something which, unfortunately, has lagged behind so far. I think that what the SF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, also raised in relation to the Arab language, in other words how we ensure that the staff in the prisons know at all what is going on between the radicalised prisoners, is very relevant. We must continue along the path we have taken to restrict prisoners' access to various forms of illegal technology, including mobile phones that are being thrown over the walls, just to take some of the things we can do in relation to the direct problems of radicalising those in prisons. In addition, of course, we can also do a number of other things to prevent radicalised prisoners from being released as quickly as is the case, and that is, of course, in relation to looking at the question of the rules on parole and punishment, so that we are not going to let these types out early. These are the main initiatives that we in the Liberal Alliance think should be looked at. We thank you for the debate and look forward to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141648	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325141706	I believe that anyone who has followed the debate can see that much more strategic action is needed than there has been, because it is quite clear that the scale of radicalisation has come to the surprise of the government, and it is also quite clear that this is a government which has not known what has happened and what is still going on in prisons. If, therefore, such severe problems may have been so long in the past, and if we know at the same time that one in five Syrian warriors from Denmark has actually been imprisoned, then it signals to us that this problem will have to be taken very seriously, if only now. I just have to say directly that there's a need to put your foot down. We simply need to have a very hard fight with radicalisation, that is to say we have a direct signal that it is totally unacceptable when groups of inmates in common areas are cheering over IS on television or cheering over the killing of soldiers from the West. If that happens, those groups must, of course, be split up immediately, and we must immediately assess whether this gives rise to some inmates being moved away from each other. That must be obvious. After all, the government has come up with an 11-point plan and, as has been said several times from this platform, there is a lot in committee, and there is a real concern from us that the hard words and good tactics we have heard from the Minister for Justice end up being soft and watered down when the committee procedure is over. The only concrete thing here and now is a tightening-up of the reports from prisons to PET, and that quickly becomes too thin. For no one should be in any doubt that the Conservative People's Party wants a tough legal policy, which is why we are also concerned that the very signals that are hard now will be softened later on. On 26 February, Parliament actually voted on a motion for a resolution from the bourgeois that dangerous personal crime should always trigger the residual sentence by parole. After all, this is an obvious opportunity for the government to show responsibility and send a strong political signal that the residual punishment must be triggered if you commit violence or assault. Now the government is going to ask the Criminal Code Council to assess the rules on punishment in general, which is why it can actually be said that the government's proposals seem rather strange. We in the Conservative People's Party do not believe that there is a need for an assessment by the Criminal Code Council of something that is so strong political and that is also postureable. There are also other proposals in the 11 points that we can support directly. This applies to the limitation of parole, as well as improved cooperation between the authorities. It is actually a little strange, because it is not so often that there is an opposition with its arms reaching out to the government and saying: we really want to make policy with you about something that you also really want to make policy about. But the government will only just have it through a greater legislative preparation and committee work. Then there are also some initiatives that the government does not address, but which are really important. There is the whole question of the linguistic competences that are present in the prisons of the employees, i.e. whether they are the right ones. For it must be highly provocative to be employed in a Danish prison and then experience how Arabic is spoken over the heads of some. So it is also necessary to address the confidentiality of the Imams, and I do not think there is a complete solution to what to do. Because, on the one hand, it is quite essential, necessary and important that you have confidence and that an iman has confidentiality and that a free space can be created for the individual inmate. On the other hand, it is highly offensive to my sense of justice that an imam could potentially hold knowledge that PET could use but that is not being passed on today. Therefore, we would very much like to tighten up the requirements of the Imams in general. I shall end by signing, because we are happy to be invited to negotiations as part of the conciliation parties. We look forward to it. But I would also just like to stretch out that hand, that is, what others have done, and say that some of the initiatives could be launched immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142115	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142127	I actually think I will be relatively brief, as I understand it, that I think it is a very good thing that we have had the opportunity to take the discussion here today, but I did not listen to any new views from any of the parties. What I think I can see is that there is broad political agreement that it is a problem, that radicalisation is going on in Danish prisons and that we have to find it, so to speak, contain it, and thus prevent it from spreading both to other prisoners and to society, by the way, after serving time. I was also actually listening to the fact that there is incredibly broad support for the government's initiatives and the positions I have as the country's Minister of Justice, and I am, of course, extremely pleased to see that there is broad political support for the policy that the government wants to pursue when it comes to combating all forms of undemocratic radicalised tendencies, whether it is something that takes place within or outside our criminal services. Then it is always the case in the Folketing that a government is obliged to ensure that the work is done in a proper way: when there are nuances, they must appear, when there is knowledge to be unveiled, it must happen, and when there is a need to do things the right way, it is I who must guard that principle, and then the opposition can always stand and say that it could take place faster. And we might as well spend a lot of time saying that to each other. I think it is crucial that there is broad political support for strengthening efforts and the fight against totalitarian, undemocratic radicalised tendencies and ideas in our criminal services, and I thank Parliament for its support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142322	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142327	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Already last year I think a year ago the Center for Terror Analysis, which is under PET, wrote that there was a connection between radicalisation and extremist forces, which among other things. go to Syria, and people who have a known background in the gang environment. Of course, it has to be deduced that they are people who are in contact with the criminal justice system, the judicial system and the judicial system. I just want to ask the Minister for Justice: Did the government do anything on the basis of that evaluation from the Center for Terror Analysis? Did the government do anything on the basis of the assessment that came out just over a year ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142412	Thank you. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142413	Yes, the government has continuously worked in the fight against terrorism and the fight against radicalisation of our society. This has, of course, led to a number of proposals, both on the anti-radicalisation plan, which the Left has chosen to support, but of course also on the passport proposal recently adopted in the Folketing, in which the authorities are given the opportunity to withdraw the passport from people who are supposed to travel, for example, to Syria and fight for the Islamic State. So, yes, there is a response. At the same time, the evaluation made last week shows, of course, that the effort has not been good enough, so we have immediately stated that the right and necessary information must be given to PET about the radicalisation of our prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142502	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142503	Thank you. Then I would like to ask the Minister if he can tell us what concrete action was being taken in the field of criminal justice when it emerged that some of those who went to Syria are known in the criminal policy system and in the criminal justice system. It is a good thing that we are now doing something on the back of a terrorist attack, but it would have been better if the minister did not agree with that. Then I would like to ask the Minister again: what was done in the Department of Justice to deal with the threat posed by these people and the connection that exists between people known in the criminal justice system, the criminal justice system, and people travelling to Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142547	I think it is important to say that when we talk about foreign fighters and Danes who turn their backs on Denmark, our democracy, our freedom and, for example, travel to Syria or Iraq to fight for the Islamic State, it is primarily a matter for the police intelligence service, because it is an intelligence work that needs to be carried out so that we know it and can maintain the necessary knowledge of those concerned. After all, there has been an anti-radicalization work in the Department of Justice. My assessment is that it is not enough, and it is clear that when we can see significantly more notifications within a short period of time here after the terrorist attack than before, there is something that suggests that we have not been targeted enough on the part of the Department of Justice. That needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142630	Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142635	It is a pity that the government had the opportunity to make some policy now and simply act more proactively than what has been done. There has only been this because the reports now also have to be sent to PET. So it's a shame you don't accept the outstretched hand, but the government has to do that. I just want to ask according to the answers that Mr. Ole Hækkerup, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, stated in his answer to questions relating to confidentiality and the Imams whether the Minister for Justice sees any reason to tighten up the functioning of the Imams in prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142714	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142716	If there is any chance of solving problems of radicalisation in this way, I am of course in favour of it. It is, of course, as the rapporteur has already said, that one is simply protected, as in prisons in Denmark, in relation to having access to religious preachers, and that also applies if one is a Christian. But that being said, and that right is of course essential, we should not have imams in Danish prisons that in any way support radicalisation or counteract our ordinary social life in Denmark, and of course we are fully aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142757	Thank you. Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142802	This was actually the kind of reflection that I think several people have been doing in the course of the debate, because now there are various figures, and the most recent figure was then 60 people, about whom we know nothing, and the SF also mentioned this, about whether it is enough that 11 exits have been initiated if you have potentially 60 people who are still in prison and who could be in the process of an exit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142826	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142827	I understand the interest in exits, and I would like to say that in the case where you are dealing with a person it does not matter whether it is in the organized crime or rocker gang environment, or whether it is someone who might be radicalised who wants to turn his back on it, so to speak get back to the normal social life. That is also why we have jointly chosen to extend the system and allocate new funds to it. On the other hand, we must not be naive, and it is not because I in any way claim that the rapporteur is, because it is not the case that all those who may be radicalised in Denmark actually want to turn their backs on it. After all, there are people here who want to undermine Danish democracy, introduce a caliphate and otherwise support militant Islamism, and those people I do not think are suitable for a mentoring process. Unfortunately, there are quite other hard tools that need to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142918	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325142923	I'd like to deal with these 60 people who are considered radicalized. I would like to ask: if you have any idea where these people are, what they are doing, are they under surveillance, you take the situation sufficiently seriously, because it is a problem for Denmark that people who are so radicalised run around like loose missiles in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143002	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143003	It goes without saying that if PET considers that there is a need, so to speak, to keep track of the activity and life of some people for the sake of state security, PET must do so. However, the questioner is also aware of the fact that I cannot, from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, expose what is PET's strategy, which people you follow, how you organise your work, because with that we would simply risk exposing the after-business work that should take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143040	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143042	Then I could try to ask another question that I have put to the Minister for Justice before, and that is a question of examples such as now. such as Said Mansour as an example of a real imam sitting in prison spreading his hate propaganda. Can we not take the initiative very quickly to ensure that people with that observance are isolated so that they do not radicalise fellow prisoners?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143116	As I said before, one of the things we are looking at right now is whether we can, to a greater extent than is the case, separate those who, with their radicalised attitudes, want to influence others and encourage others to radicalisation, from other prisoners. This will be part of both the evaluation of the criminal justice system, but also, of course, of the political follow-up afterwards. I myself am not in any way reluctant to see more prisoners separated from each other in the event of radicalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143150	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143153	Thank you. I think that the Minister takes the information that 60 people have been radicalised in prisons fairly lightly, and here in the Folketing she does not reply at all to where they are. Are they released? Are they free? What is the risk assessment of the persons involved here? I would like to ask about the process of radicalisation in prisons, because on 17 January, following the attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris, there were 39 people considered radicalised on 17 January. But they say that in some of the 39 cases, PET has been contacted. That doesn't indicate that they've been in all cases. Then you go on to say, "Whoever we consider more serious or in doubt about, we pass on to Special Branch." Can the Minister not explain to the Folketing: Has PET been informed of the 39 people who are radicalised? That was the first question. The second is that some of the 60 people we are now being told are not 39 who are further back in time and who really should have been in the group with the 39, when this information came out? I think it is fair that the Danish Parliament should have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143329	I think that what is actually the main problem with the efforts that have so far been made in the field of criminal justice is the lack of systematic approach to PET. I would like to be frank here: we can make a lot of different initiatives, and we can call it soft, and we can call it hard, but when it comes to extremism and radicalisation, the most important thing is that PET has access to the necessary knowledge about the people concerned. It is as things stand here and now, the best protection we can put up. So when there has been a lack of systematism in criminal justice in order to ensure that any tendency, any attitude, any action and any change in behaviour that can support the start of a radicalisation process has been passed on to PET, then in my view it is a serious mistake that has been allowed to go on. And that is why it has been corrected straight away, so there must now be a systematic notification not only to PET, which is the most important thing, but also to a central unit in criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143437	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143438	I think we are a little surprised at what the Minister is saying here. Because what we have been told in the Folketing is that there are now 60 people who have been radicalised at least, the Minister says that there may be more. Sixty people, reported by the Department of Justice, have now been radicalised. Then I ask: we were told in January in Berlingske by the Department of Police that that figure was not 60, but that it was 39. Have the 21 arrived since January, or are the 21 some that were before January 2015? I think the Minister should be able to answer that question. The second question is: Has PET been informed of all 60 people, and what is being done in relation to those people? Are they on the loose, are they released, or are they still in prison? Where are they?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143531	Firstly, I would like to say that it is not the case that we can say that those people have been radicalised while they have been in prison. But what we can see is that they have behaved or expressed themselves in such a way while they have been in prison that it has been estimated that there is radicalisation. However, whether there are people here who have been radicalised several years back and take with them the behavior and abominable attitudes to serve, or whether they are persons who have been so strongly influenced along the way in a service that they have been radicalised, no one can say anything about. And often it is likely to be an interaction. There has been a group, as it were, in relation to notifications, after the first figures were published in the public domain, and this can be done, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And that is why I am constantly saying that there must be systematic information from the criminal services directly to the PET, so we are sure that what one authority sees will of course be passed on to the next.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143632	I thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. I understand that, sir. Peter Skaarup would like the word to the second round to the end. And that is right, so I give the floor to Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325143654	I was just surprised that things were going so fast because I was hoping that we could get even more information from the Minister. There are no more questioners, but there is a possibility that you can then take the floor here afterwards and answer further. Everyone can ask me here afterwards, if that is the case, but the Minister can ask for the floor at any time and go up and tell me how things stand. In any case, I will, with the permission of the President, give you what may be an end to the debate if the Minister does not go further, namely a summary of what has happened with the eyes of the Danish People's Party in the debate. What we have been told is that the government has asked for an account of some things in the Department of Criminal Services, and that statement will then be available in May this year. What is, after all, the good question that I do not think we have been given an answer to during the debate is: when will that statement be made? When are we going to act? When are we going to take initiatives? When I am a little inquisitive about this, it is of course because too many of the 11 points that were presented to the press last week, but also to the Folketing, are said to be a problem, that there are some things that do not work, that we should have done something about it, so that we signal action without taking action. Let me give you an example: parole. It's a problem if you're paroling a radicalized early. It is also a problem that a terrorist does not sit at all in the two years he had been sentenced to prison. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, What does the government want here? As a matter of fact, the Department of Criminal Services will have to identify parole practice by 1 August 2015. Is something gonna happen now? There isn't. Yeah, maybe there's a map going on. Then we can then up on the other side of 1 August assess the fact that the Danish Parliament has not gathered at that time to see whether there should be any austerity or change, and there are very different answers from the Social Democrats and Radicals to whether we should stop for parole for radicalizeds, whether we should allow someone to be released, that is, it sails. Looked at from what's here, I'm afraid it sails when it comes to parole. Then there is the question of the residual penalty and whether the rest penalty should be triggered if, for example, there is to be no penalty. new crimes are committed. In relation to that question, we can then read in what the government is going to say that it has to assess it. Well, it's interesting, and it's exciting what they're assessing, but is something happening now? No, there isn't. In relation to the question of conditional sentences: should you go from conditional to unconditional sentences so that it actually provides prison, it could be interesting and important when it comes to hardened criminals, as you write. Who's gonna do something here? Is something gonna happen here? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Isn't that a question that politicians can assess? Do we have to get the Criminal Code over it? Then there is the question of serving inmates who do not respect the rules of the game. Well, the government here says it needs to be evaluated by the Criminal Services Committee. But is it not a question on which politicians could have an opinion and could implement something? I think you could certainly do that. Then there is cooperation between the authorities. What does the government want here? Yes, the authorities need to consider issues of strengthening regulatory cooperation. It's really interesting and really nice, but it's a problem that there's no proper cooperation. Fix it! Let's solve that problem. So, unfortunately, the conclusion is that the government is saying something, but it is doing far too little. It is risky at a time when we are facing terrorist threats around the world, there are terrorist threats in Denmark. We can just see in various news media how things are going around the world. So our appeal on the part of the Danish People's Party is that you go from saying to doing, that is, that there is action behind the words. I hope that this debate, if nothing else, has signalled to the government that there is therefore a grave impatience among at least a large minority in the Folketing who would like to have done something now and here. Our call to the government is: Get dressed! Do something! Take on some strings that bats that work, and let's stress these radicalizeds instead of doing nothing. Unfortunately, that is the problem, which must be the conclusion from this debate, where we can see that the government is unfortunately not doing its job well enough. I'm sorry, but it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325144212	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. No one else has asked for the floor. This means that the debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Thursday 26 March 2015. Then I must say that we must move forward with the next item on the agenda, but we have announced this only at 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15.00, and so we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150007	Then we are ready to resume the meeting. We have come to item 2 on the agenda, which is also the last item on the agenda, namely the reply to questions forwarded to the ministers. I'm just gonna tell you that by mr. Christian Langballe, Dansk Folkeparti, under nr. 6 questions put to the Minister for Justice, Question No. S 924, at the request of the author, is withdrawn. Then we can get to work on Question No. 1, which is for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150041	Thank you. The question is: why does the Minister think that increased public spending is more responsible than investing in creating more private jobs? Let me just say that I think that the sound is very loud; I do not know if anyone in Technology can do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150055	We hope so, so that there will not be too much echo in the Minister's reply. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150101	I shall try to avoid the answer hanging in the air, but at least thank you for the question. In my view, the question calls for increased public spending on the one hand to be contrary to investing in creating more private jobs on the other, i.e. that it is, like, a either-or. I think that is basically a mistake. Private jobs are the foundation for maintaining and developing a good public service, and a well-functioning welfare society with daycare services, educational services for children and young people, health care, etc. support jobs and value creation in the private sector. This is not the view of the government alone. Targeting public service improvement helps to support growth and prosperity. You can also see this if you look at the Danish Industry 2020 plan, where they suggest that a room for manoeuvre created by structural reforms is used to increase public spending on education and research and development. We can already see from developments in the labour market that it has turned around. There is progress in the private sector in Denmark, and in the last year alone 35,000 more people have entered jobs. The government is also working to ensure that more jobs are created in Denmark. We focus on strengthening the competitiveness of private companies and reducing the burden on business; we have done so most recently with the "Growth Plan" and the "Growth Package 2014" where we have removed burdens and provided targeted tax incentives. In addition, we have carried out a large number of reforms to ensure that employment also increases in the years to come. The reforms that have already been adopted, together with the recovery of the business cycle, will lead to an increase in private employment of 150,000 full-time people from 2013 to 2020 and, as I said, we are already well on our way to the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150244	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150246	Thank you for the answer, which I really do not think is hanging in the air, because it was quite good to put it in place. But I put my question to the Minister on the understanding that it is no more than a few weeks ago, if I remember correctly, the Minister was out in a very aggressive attack on blue block or blue camp, if one would, that is to say, that we had not learned anything from the economic crisis, that we were just banging away with one proposal after another with the housing job scheme on the front and several other things, tax cuts to the business community and all sorts of other things • the kind of things that the Minister had to understand was deeply economically irresponsible to do. Then it is just that I wonder why, according to the Minister, it is more irresponsible to use these funds, that is to say, the room for manoeuvre that can be created by the reforms that we, by the way, share far along the way, to target what you are investing in creating more private jobs, which, among other things, are. The housing job scheme is an expression of, among other things: lower taxes on enterprises and lower taxes on labour income are an expression of this. Why should it be more irresponsible, according to the Minister, than what the government is proposing, namely to increase public expenditure further? I understand that one cannot rule out the other and that investment in education and all these things can easily help to create private jobs, certainly, but one gets the impression when one reads the attack that the Minister is out in on us in blue camp that what we, among other things, are doing. We do not propose to exclude the other things, but we are targeting some of these investments to create more private jobs, which, according to the Minister, is the whole condition for us to have a welfare society: that the housing job scheme should continue, lower taxes on small incomes and lower taxes on business, should be more irresponsible than what the government is proposing, namely to increase public spending. That is what I do not understand, and that is why I ask why this is at least the case, according to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150441	I will be happier and happier with the question, because it will then give an opportunity to clarify what kind of errand I was on. Because what I find striking is that although Mr. Jacob Jensen lists a lot of purposes here, so the concrete promises are made, among other things. from the left, the only way in which the housing job scheme is based. And there is only one thing I have to say: in the case of proposals for the Finance Act from the Left, the Ministry of Finance considered that the cost would be 1.1 billion. kr., and previously the Ministry of Finance has estimated that the housing job scheme at best creates between 1,000 and 1,500 additional employees in the short term. So if what you are concerned with is spending an extra billion, why should it be spent on something that is notoriously expensive in terms of creating jobs, rather than some of the other commendable purposes, such as reducing the tax on work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150529	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150531	Now, on the other hand, I am getting more and more happy with the answer if I can send it back. For now I understand that the Minister is not looking for us to use these funds; he is just looking for the purpose for which we are using them. That is honest talk; it is a political priority. So it's okay that we choose to invest in creating more private jobs, among other things. the continuation of the housing job scheme, including: by lowering taxes, or suggesting lowering taxes, for our companies, among others. by suggesting that the tax on the lowest earned crown should be lowered, all of which will help generate more private jobs. That, according to the Minister, is just the wrong way to do it, that must be how I understand the answer. It is therefore no longer irresponsible to do so, but it is just the wrong way, the wrong tools we are using. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150617	What I miss a recognition of is the mistakes made in economic policy in the years leading up to the crisis, where there was a running policy that has created uncertainty for many homeowners, because we did not see in time that we had a bubble economy. That is why I am surprised that when you have a whole host of purposes you want to spend money on, among others. The fact is that reducing the tax on labour, as the government has done, is something that contributes to private job creation, why is it that the concrete promises made by the Left go on a housing job scheme of 1.1 billion? kr. that could have been spent on lowering the tax on work, but instead should go specifically to a sector where there is no higher unemployment than in everyone else? And why is it that the other bourgeois parties are promising new reliefs to homeowners at a time when prices are up again? That is what is irresponsible; that is what indicates that we have not learned from the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150706	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150707	Now I am only accountable for the part that has to do with the Left. I am happy to do so. For, as I see it, the Minister is now saying, he disagrees with the purpose, and that is honest talk. That is, of course, a political priority. But he doesn't disagree with the need to invest in these things. We choose politically to say that we want to invest purposefully. Then you can discuss whether these are the right tools. We believe that these are the right tools. We do not think that there is anything wrong with continuing an otherwise good scheme, the housing job scheme. We do not think that there is anything wrong with those who are in the labour market and who earn a little, getting a little more in their pockets after tax. Nor do we think it is wrong for companies that create private jobs, which are the foundation of our welfare society, to have a little better working conditions, a little lower taxes, a little lower costs. But the Minister so disagrees with and calls what we are proposing irresponsiblely, because he would rather spend the money on increasing one of the world's largest public sectors to make it even bigger. It is a political choice and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150803	What I am saying is that when you have to prioritise your tools, you have to have a look at what they have for an effect. What unites the proposals of the bourgeois is that they are aimed at the homeowners, who must receive new discounts either on the ground or in the form of an extended craft allowance. It is money which, instead, could have been spent on lowering the tax on work, which could be useful following on from what the government has already done. But instead, because it seems that nothing has been learned from the crisis, one chooses to prioritize new discounts for the homeowners in one way or another. And the money can only be used once, which is why it is just that the question I am left with is: Why isn't one taking stock of the fact that housing prices in the capital, for example, are up to the same level and it is therefore not advisable to listen to the National Bank to make new discounts that affect housing prices upwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150859	That was the last answer to question 1. We move on to question 2, and it's still gone, sir. Jacob Jensen, who asks questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150908	The question is: does the Minister think that it is most economically responsible if the state spends money that has been saved in advance, or is it more financially responsible if the state spends money that debts the country further?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325150923	Now, in fact, I think that we managed to get closer in the first round, because we agreed that there was no contradiction between wanting more private jobs and having public investment. But as I understand this question, and I hope for the same positive development, the question here is whether it is responsible to have deficits or surpluses in public finances. I just want to make it clear that financial responsibility is not measured by the sign of the public balance. Public finances depend to a very large extent on the state of the economy. When there is a boom and things are going well, there will often be surpluses in public finances, and vice versa, when there is a recession and things are going badly. So financial responsibility cannot be boiled down to a question of whether there is wind or wind in the business cycle. Responsible economic policy implies a surplus in public finances when things are going well and there is a boom and it ensures that there is room for manoeuvre when there is a recession. This is a view which the National Bank also puts forward in its latest quarterly review. The government is pursuing a responsible economic policy. It is precisely the desire to maintain a policy of financial responsibility that is why the government has set up a new framework for managing economic policy with expenditure ceilings and the budget law. To ensure Danish prosperity and fiscal sustainability, we have focused on reforms that strengthen the Danish economy. The reforms that have already been adopted will lift employment and prosperity on a lasting basis by 2020, and it will ensure the balance of public budgets by 2020, and this is an expression of fundamental economic responsibility. The government's economic policy means that public finances are sound and there is great international confidence in the Danish economy. It comes, among other things. As a result, Denmark has been able to maintain its AAA rating throughout the period following the financial crisis. Economic policy contributes with a responsible and stability-oriented approach to ensuring credibility of the fixed exchange rate policy, which, with the relaxed monetary policy in the euro area, also leads to very low interest rates in Denmark to the benefit of Danes and private job creation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151125	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151126	Thank you for your answer. The government conducts an economically responsible policy, the mantra sounds over and over again. After all, a falsehood is no longer the right thing to do by allowing it to be repeated. Let me therefore just remind you, for the sake of history and just to draw up the perspective, of how things have turned out, and that is what I am asking, in relation to the debt of our country, that is to say, that we are spending money at a time when savings have been made or that we are spending money at a time when there is debt. When the VK government came to power back in 2001, Denmark had a net debt in the region of 300 billion. kr. There was then a series of proposals from the left, not least from the Socialists and the SFs, which would have increased public spending, thus increasing consumption. We said no, we can't. We'd hold back, we'd pay off the debt. And we succeeded. It even succeeded so well that when the global crisis hit us in 2008, we had reversed the debt of the 300 billion. kr. to a positive net worth of about 120 billion. kr. Then it is true that there was a crisis, and that meant that when we delivered the keys to the current government in 2011, there was a modest debt of 20 billion. kr. What has happened in the last three years? Yes, the debt has not just doubled, no, the debt has increased eightfold under the current government from 20 billion. kr. to now about 168 billion. kr. So I ask: is it the most responsible thing to do with the attack by the Minister on the blue camp that we referred to a moment ago, as the VK government did, namely to use funds at a time when there was a net worth, that is, when the money had been saved, that was the money in the bank, so to speak, or is it more responsible as the current government does, namely to spend additional money at a time when there is already debt in our country?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151317	I understand that there is a great need on the part of the Left to justify the economic policy pursued in the '00s, but the truth, which remains, is that a historic recovery was poured out and grew into an historic crisis. When we took over power in Denmark, Denmark was under an EU recommendation that we have now come out of, because an active recovery policy has been pursued. When we took over power in Denmark, we became poorer and poorer; now there is again growth in Denmark. By the time we took over power in Denmark, there had been the biggest job losses since it began to be measured at the beginning of the 1970s; now there have been 20 consecutive months of increased employment. I think that the facts speak for themselves, even though our parties will probably always disagree on who is most responsible. Let the facts speak here, then there is no comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151408	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151409	You can choose to take out the facts that you think are most appropriate, but I can only remind you that the growth estimate has fallen eight times in a row. The deficit has virtually doubled in addition to the debt I have already mentioned. And the fact that we should have become richer under the current government is not true either, because if we look at what is normally measured in terms of economic size, namely gross domestic product, then it has become less since the current government came into office and to this day it has become less, we have become poorer in our country, our economy has shrunk. So to say that a responsible economic policy has been pursued, which has made us now richer, is something of a truth with modifications. That is why I would just like to maintain my question: is it most responsible to spend the money when you have saved it or is it more responsible as a current government to spend money that you do not have and that debts the Danes further?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151458	What I can understand from Mr. Simpson... Jacob Jensen, it doesn't make any impression that we have now 20 months in a row had increasing employment, that more and more Danes are going to work, and it doesn't make any impression that we now have six consecutive quarters of economic growth in Denmark after a historic downturn. What I can say on behalf of the government is that we have learned some of the mistakes that were made under the VK administration, because we understand that we need to pursue a stability-oriented economic policy. There is no point in sticking one's head in the sand in the good times and thinking that now everything can be done... the textbooks must be rewritten, as Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen as prime minister, I believe, was pronounced when the truth shows that when things go wrong, things are going really wrong. We are proud of the recovery we have made. We are proud that there is a high degree of trust and credibility in the Danish economy; it is partly because we have kept our hands on employment that we can now see it lightening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151551	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151551-2	Yes, I am pleased to note that employment is increasing, albeit to a modest extent, if you compare it with other countries around us, but that is positive. And that is due to, among other things. the reforms carried out by the Minister's party and the VK government just before the 2011 elections, but which the Social Democrats strongly opposed. I also believe that there was a leading Social Democratic Member who said that it would be above his corpse if those reforms were not to be rolled back. Now, fortunately, the reforms, and indeed the person mentioned, are both alive, and that is good, both for the person concerned, but certainly also for our reforms and, therefore, for the employment that is growing up. That's good. But that cannot change the fact that when the government continues to bear in mind that a responsible economic policy has been pursued, I am just trying to arrest it and say: there is an increasing debt, there is an eight-fold increase, it is eight times in a row that the growth estimate is lower, and we are significantly below, including in terms of job creation, the countries with which we are usually compared. That is not what I would call responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151648	Unemployment in Denmark today is below 5%, that is half of the EU average, and I think that many people are envying how well things are going in Denmark. But Mr. Jacob Jensen will have to decide at some point, because a moment ago we could understand that the debt is going badly, the debt has grown over our heads, and nothing is good in Denmark, but then we understand that it is the reforms that were made under the previous government that are the reason why things are going well. And it can't both go well and go badly, so sir... Jacob Jensen must at some point come to the same conclusion as everyone else who is watching the Danish economy, namely that things are going better this year than they did last year. This is going to go even better next year, and that is because we have succeeded in bringing Denmark out of the crisis well and turning virtually all signs against the situation that was when we took over power.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151735	I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, who has finished here. It's sir. Jacob Jensen too. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It's for the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151745	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151750	Thank you. The question is: will the Foreign Minister state whether, in view of the outcome of the elections in Israel and Netanyahu's total rejection of the two-state solution, he and the government be left with the European Union to get a solution to the conflict back on the political agenda? Now that it can really make a difference, does it intend to recognise Palestine and provide support for Palestine's participation in the International Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325151817	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen for the question that is absolutely relevant to discuss. Having said that, I must say that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is also a little quick on the trigger here, because we probably had an election in Israel last week, but we have not got a new government, and it is still possible that we have a broad coalition. These hours are being negotiated in Tel Aviv, and much will depend on what the future Israeli Government looks like, as far as I can judge, in relation to what will be the wise next step. However, regardless of who forms the government of Israel, we must of course do what we can to promote the two-state solution and the Palestinian State, on which I believe we fully agree, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen and I are the only possible way forward if we are to find a permanent solution to the crisis in the Middle East. We know all too well the problems: for too long Israel has not shown the political will to work seriously for a negotiated solution, and this is a serious problem which helps to make the situation untenable, as I see it. At the same time, on the other hand, we have an internal division among the Palestinians, which makes it difficult for them to stand strong and united as a credible negotiating party. In other words, making the Palestinian reconciliation process really work is also necessary in order to achieve a two-state solution, as far as I can judge. It can be said that one side lacks the will, and the other side is currently lacking the ability to carry out the negotiations that are needed. Then the question is: what about recognition of Palestine? How does it best play into the negotiating room that we are going to enter? As I said, it depends a little on what the Tel Aviv government will look like. However, I do not think we can argue that the best and best chance for a Palestinian State would be if a solution could be negotiated which a Palestinian State could then stand on top of. We have also opened the door here to recognise Palestine as part of reaching such a negotiated solution, but we would like it to be done in an EU path where it really matters and where we talk with weight. In relation to the ICC, I note that Palestine's membership of the International Criminal Court has already been assumed to be a reality. Canada is the only ICC country that has submitted a note to the UN that they do not accept Palestine as an ICC member. However, the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the bodies of the ICC have indicated that they consider the ratification of Palestine to be valid. And since no EU country has protested about Palestine's accession, we consider Palestine on the Danish side to be the 123th member of the ICC.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152107	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152109	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. The minister is trying to divide the sun and the wind in such a way: there are problems on both sides. Of course there is, but wouldn't he agree that the main problem right now is Netanyahu? It was his statements in the run-up to the elections, which were deeply, deeply provocative and which in themselves have created a crisis in the prospects for a negotiated solution. That is also why we are hearing very, very strong reactions from the White House at the moment, much stronger than we have heard here in the Chamber today from the Danish Foreign Minister. I think that's a little weird, I have to say. There have been very, very harsh statements from Obama. There have been harsh statements by Nick Clegg, the British Deputy Prime Minister, who, as I know, has close contacts with the Radical Left, that if Netanyahu does not withdraw the statements that he does not want to recognise Palestine, Britain will have to recognise Palestine as a state. And that is what I would like the Danish Government to be a little more, if I may say so, offensive to go in and more proactively promote that agenda. Because there is no doubt whatsoever that Netanyahu will be new Israeli Prime Minister. I don't think anyone is in doubt about that. There is no doubt that he is also stuck with the statement he made in the run-up to the elections. He is trying to withdraw it at the moment, but no one believes him above a threshold, even because he has simply sabotaged any two-state solution over the years. That is why it is necessary to put stronger pressure on Netanyahu, with which the White House is currently in the process, as Nick Clegg is currently doing, with which the Swedish Government, with its recognition, is currently in the process, with which a number of European countries are about to embark. That is why I would consider it very, very important that the Danish Government too should take a more active part in this discussion and instead of saying that there are errors on both sides, say: the main problem is Netanyahu and his statements before the elections, and we need to put stronger pressure on him if we are to move forward in the peace process.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152333	I would like to distance myself from the statements made by Netanyahu in the interview that took place the day before the elections. I mean, they're anything but helpful. I believe that they are in themselves a problem and, of course, we must expect Netanyahu, whatever government he may be in charge of, to return to the negotiating table, to a two-state solution as the objective. I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Holger K. Nielsen in, and I am happy to say that quite clearly, as I am doing here. It's the only way forward. But what is the underlying question today is: should Denmark go out unilaterally and recognise Palestine now? And when I hesitate a little and have been doing it for a while, it is with all due respect for Nick Clegg and Britain because one of the accidents in European politics here is that we have been so divided. I would like to have it brief in relation to having an overall EU policy, not least in relation to the settlement policy, where I would like to see a stronger EU role. That is why I am not so sure that those unilateral steps from individual countries, when it comes down to it, put the pressure that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is requesting. I would like to see a stronger European voice on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152447	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152448	I think we are all in complete agreement with this, and that is why I am also saying that we must try to have a common European policy in this area and a common European recognition. But if that does not happen, then you have to say: what then? And there I really think that the government should consider doing as Sweden and saying that it can't help anything, that we wait and wait all the time. For the time being, and the longer time that goes by, the more explosive the whole development can stay down there in the area. The Minister says that then the Israeli Government will return to the path of peace. But if it is the same as in the last few years, there is no return. It has been a consistent sabotage of any peace initiative that has come from Abbas, the moderate Palestinian leader, with new settlements all the time and with various ways of obstructing it. I think it really should be taken up again, as I have understood, incidentally, that the radical hinterland has also done. In the Radical Left, there is a discussion of this. I have read several statements by members of the National Radical Committee who actually believe that we should start now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152603	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152604	I can confirm that. As I said myself, one of the major problems is that for too long there has been a lack of political will on the part of Israel to move forward in the peace process. But what we are discussing today, as I see it, is what works. I have full respect for and I actually understand the rationale behind Holger K. Nielsen's point of view, just as I have full respect for the choice Sweden has made. But I must also say that, as the 134th country, I believe it is, we recognise Palestine, because unfortunately nothing has changed at Tel Aviv in any way. Unfortunately, it does not seem like a miracle cure either. I cannot guarantee that my attempts to reach agreement in Europe will bear fruit the day after tomorrow, but I think I can guarantee that if that succeeds, it will actually mean something and it could be a game changer in the Middle East. And that's why my focus is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152702	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152703	I don't think there's any miracle cures for this. In any case, I think, and there we agree, this is quite, quite difficult. We also agree that it is mainly the United States that can put the pressure on this process. And it is also true that the fact that so many, 134 countries have recognised Palestine has not meant that Palestine has actually become a state. But I think we should have in mind that many different minor steps can also make a difference. And that means that it does not matter what we do in Europe in this area. The European Union can play a role economically and diplomatically, and where we could actually make a difference is in recognition policy. That is also why a number of parliaments have decided to recognise Palestine as a state. That is why the debate is actually running more and more places, namely that we have realised that there is one place where Europe can make a difference, and that is by recognising Palestine in order to get the peace process going again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152811	I have to say here that I do not entirely agree with Holger K. Nielsen. In fact, I believe that where the European Union could make the greatest difference is by a more consistent policy in relation to the settlement policy. I am not sure that recognition from individual European countries will make any difference, unfortunately, but I am quite sure that a more clear policy on the part of the European Union in terms of both whip and carrot, if I may say so, in relation to the illegal settlements that are taking place, would make a difference. Here I have the impression that a great many Israelis are also aware that the settlement policy implemented and implemented by the Israeli Government is destructive in terms of achieving a peaceful solution and actually lays poison on a two-state solution. So when I go to the European Union, my purpose is no. In fact, to try to put an end to the settlement policy. I think that is almost the most important thing the European Union can do. Recognition, yes, I look forward to recognising Palestine, but I believe that it can only change the dynamics between the two countries once the negotiated solution has progressed, whereas the settlement policy is one of the biggest barriers to achieving such a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152923	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and thank him. Holger K. Nielsen, because that was Question No. 3. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It's for the Minister of Justice, and it's by Mr. Simpson. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325152937	Thank you, and the question is: how does the Minister feel about apprentices losing apprenticeships and some citizens missing a job to which they are otherwise well qualified, because after the establishment of police teams they will have to wait several months for a medical certificate to be approved, which is a prerequisite for them to take a driving licence, and will the Minister make initiatives to correct this obvious problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153006	Unfortunately, as the question points out, in the transfer of the driving licence area to the two new administrative task centres, there has been a long period of processing for applications for driving licences, particularly in those cases where there has been a need to obtain a further medical assessment and medical certificate, and where the statement had therefore to be submitted to the Health Service before a driving licence could be issued. This delay is due, among other things, to the fact that there are a group of experienced police officers who did not move in when the new centres were set up, and new staff have had to be recruited, and this gives rise to some delay. It is, of course, right, really a pity and regrettable, if someone has got into a mess, not least if it has had an impact on employment and work. The National Police Department informs me that efforts are now being made to reduce the processing time. Additional staff have been gathered, some have been assigned weekend work to make up for lost time, and it is therefore expected that the processing time will be substantially reduced in the next few months. In addition, I can say that the police, together with representatives of the KL, have started to consider whether overall cooperation between the centres and the local community's civil service office can be improved in order to make work more efficient. In addition, a working group has been set up in the Ministry of Justice, which has been given the task of examining whether it is possible to change the criteria for when medical certificates should be submitted to the Danish Health Service. It will also facilitate the handling of driving licences.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153135	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153137	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and also for your commitment to address this problem. We appreciate that. However, we are a little sad, at least in the Left, that the problem has arisen. And I have to say that it cannot come as a surprise to the Minister for Justice or perhaps it can, because the Minister was not Minister for Justice at the time; then she was Minister for something else because we had a debate on it here in Parliament, when L 175 was adopted, which the Left voted against, among other things. Because of the fact that a number of tasks are being put together there in a number of groups of tasks. At least we disagreed about the location of the task communities. We were also concerned that this would really lead to a much more slow procedure and therefore a worse situation for the citizens, who are the ones the police in this situation must help. Therefore, on 3 April 2014, when we were discussing this bill in the Parliamentary Chamber, we also asked whether it would lead to more slowness and more trouble for citizens, and what the then Minister of Justice, Karen Hækkerup, replied was that centralisation of police tasks would mean faster processing times. Now we are in a situation where we must at least see that this is not the case, and that is why I have to ask the Minister for Justice what has gone wrong. So, prior to the adoption of the bill, we had the debate in the Assembly Hall, the National Police were aware of it, and the then Minister of Justice promised that it would lead to faster processing times. How, then, can we end up in a situation where there is much longer processing times and much more trouble for citizens? Can the Minister explain how this can happen? Can the Minister state that it is at least inappropriate that what was the prerequisite for the adoption of the bill by the Danish Parliament has thus proved to be the direct opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153340	Yes, yes, but before we get too excited about it, I would like to say that this is about driving licences. In all respect, driving licences are important, but in relation to what else we deal with in the Legal Affairs Committee and also with the person concerned, we will be careful about that. This is not the first time that it has taken time to bring in more efficiency, and I really expect that efficiency to be at the end of the rainbow, not at the end of the rainbow, but at the end of the day that this system has been run in properly, and then it takes some time because there are new employees who need to be in place. That is, of course, a pity, and I would like to regret it if there are some specific people who have got into a mess, but I am very confident that it can be dealt with in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153419	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153420	Thank you, and thank you for that commitment. Now, as such, it was not my intention to get upset, and if that has happened, I am sorry, but this question falls into a general discussion. We are adopting some things here in the Parliamentary Chamber under certain conditions, and a clear precondition for this proposal is that it should not put the citizens at a disadvantage but, on the contrary, better. Then when it comes out and has to be lifted out by the National Police, the result is worse, i.e. the prerequisites disappear. And we also have the same debate in other areas where there is a certain difference between the reality that we are being presented to in the Assembly and the way in which laws and rules are being managed out in reality. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Justice again whether she will investigate what has happened when a clear precondition for the bill was that this should happen more quickly, and then we have the problem that it is going to be much slower. The Minister must also be interested in finding out how this can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153510	Yeah, but don't you have to distinguish between the short and the long lane? If this, what is expected, is going to mean a much more effective system, then it may well be that you have to overcome some initial difficulties. It is clear that when it has been necessary to hire new employees, there is some running-in time. Once again, I am sorry if someone has caught up. I'm pretty confident, both in relation to the municipalities and the National Police, about getting this thing in. So now there are people working overtime and working weekends to reduce processing time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153543	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153545	Thank you. We're really happy about that, but it should have been planned by the National Police. Well, there are some who have had problems with it. An article from Nordjyske Stiftstidende specifically mentions a person, i.e. a driving instructor, who does not come to the store because you now have to wait 3 months, and there is someone who has lost his apprenticeship because you could not get the licence which otherwise was a condition for it. I think that is inappropriate, and I understand from the Minister's reply that the Minister agrees, but that is just strange. We warn in the legislative process that this leads to longer processing times, the government says that it is simply taken out of thin air and is not going to happen. Then it happens anyway, and then you put in. Wouldn't it be better to get the job done properly from the start?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153631	I am sorry if anyone has said that something should have been taken out of thin air, especially if it is predictions, it can be difficult for both parties to assess what the future is going to bring. This is not the first time that we have seen that something that can prove incredibly wise in the longer term has run-in difficulties, and so far I do not have information that points in any other direction than that is what is at issue. If anyone has lost their apprenticeship, it is of course incredibly unfortunate, and I hope that they will be able to find a solution for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153701	That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the So, I'm gonna say thank you to sir. Karsten Lauritzen. Oh, that's where I failed. This is a very serious case. We need the co-questioner, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, on stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153717	Thank you very much, sir. President. It's probably because I'm so small and I can't believe I was almost forgotten here. But I would like to continue where Karsten Lauritzen left off, because what this is all about is that we were warned by people out in the real world that it could cause problems when we set up the new centres. That is why it is a question of learning to listen to messages from the real world. Among other things: As rapporteur on transport, I have experienced lorry drivers who approached me, who have had problems with the heart or diabetes, and who therefore have to go through a special process, and they have had to wait months for it. It is, of course, deeply frustrating for the individual, and that is why I think that we should not minimize it here, because it is a major problem for the individual but also for the business community that is affected by it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if we are not going to learn lessons. When we implement such new schemes, we tend to reap all the winnings quickly, and it goes wrong almost every time. When we implement something like this, should we not start to take account of the fact that there has to be a running-in period where there are the necessary resources for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153825	As a starting point, I think that sounds wise, and I agree with the questioner that when the Danish Parliament legislates and the government organises its work, it is extremely wise to listen to the outside world. I am, in fact, sure that the questioner is right in saying that we are not always doing it well enough, and we will certainly improve the quality of both legislation and the ability to translate it into the real world if we did it more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153846	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153848	Thank you. I am pleased with the reception given by the Minister. The second thing I would like to dwell on is that the waiting list has now risen to at least 3 months for these treatments, guidance and health tests, and that means, among other things, that there are some older drivers who have to go through this system, who actually have to drive around the roads for several months, even if the doctor is in doubt whether they can actually get behind the wheel or not. In this connection, the Danish Driver's Teacher Union has stated the following: It can have fatal consequences and affect road safety. It is of course to be feared that the person concerned will actually commit a serious accident during the long period. Therefore, I have to ask the Minister whether this is not a problem that we cannot just overlook and that it is extremely urgent to get this right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325153943	Indeed, I started my answer today by saying that it is of course a problem with the long processing times, and that I note that the National Police have gathered additional staff and that work is also being done over a period of time in order to reduce the processing times. It is clear that it has to be provided as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154004	I will have to correct the mistake I have made, and then the Minister will suffer, who is asked an extra question because I think that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen must be allowed to finish off with the last question after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154015	We can all make mistakes, that's the way it is. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer that has been given. I'd like to hear the minister when this is resolved, because when you ask Hanne Bæk Olsen, who speaks in Nordjyske Stiftstidende in February, she is the head of one of these centres, the section manager of the administration centre West, she says that it will typically take a year before things get settled. It is just very unfortunate when we have adopted legislation that the Left did not share, where the prerequisite for this legislation was that citizens should not have a longer waiting period, and then there will be a longer waiting period. And it's fair enough that it's going to start with, but the answer here is that it's going to be a year. Can the Minister here guarantee that this is a problem that has been resolved in the course of, I think, the Minister originally said a few months, so we are down to a time of processing that is reasonable and acceptable to everyone, so that it does not affect people who need to have their driving licences renewed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154116	I don't think I've ever been asked to issue as many guarantees as after I've become Minister of Justice. It is from whether or not I can guarantee that there will never be a fatal terrorist attack again, to reduce the processing times on driving licences. Although I must be honest and say that I think the first issue is a little worse than the next one, I cannot issue any guarantees, unfortunately. I wish I could, not least when it comes to the security and security of the Danes, but what I can say in return is that I have been informed, and it has thus been passed on to the Danish Parliament, that the task centres expect that the processing time will be significantly reduced within the next few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154151	Despite the President's attempt to mess it up, we got through question 4 anyway and can move on to question 5, which is also for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154201	Knowing that a great many refugees are going against Denmark because of the high social benefits, and when the President of the European Border Agency, Fabrice Leggeri, warns against the fact that between 500,000 and 1,000 000 Libyans are ready to leave Libya and flee to Europe, could it not get the government to introduce far stricter requirements for obtaining asylum in Denmark and get the government to put refugees in refugee camps in the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154231	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154233	I think there is a tendency for me to have the same discussions over and over again with the same questioner. But, of course, the questioner is entitled to continue to ask the same questions with a slightly different wording here, and I am happy to answer them. I would like to arrest the premise for the question. So I do not share the opinion of the questioner that all the millions of people who are on the run in these years are fleeing simply because of access to social benefits or other things in the countries to which they are fleeing. When we have a historically high number of refugees we haven't had so many refugees worldwide since the period after World War II it's due to some cruel conflicts that have sent very, very many people on the run. In this context, Denmark has a commitment. We have that for human reasons. We also have the international commitments that we have already agreed to and signed up to. We have not relaxed the criteria for obtaining asylum. We've actually done the opposite in this government. We have done so because, on the one hand, we want to help the people who are on the run and to honour our obligations, and, on the other hand, we know very well as a government that we must make things work in the municipalities of the country, and that is why there must be a balance in how many people come here. When the Danish People's Party says that you could only tighten up further, the questioner knows very well that you will immediately be close to our international obligations, and here there is just a difference between the Danish People's Party and this government, which consists in the international rules of the game that exist, we choose to abide by.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154411	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154414	Well, there are more things in this. One thing is that the Prime Minister has said that it has now been tightened and that it could be seen that fewer people have arrived, which I do not really believe is the case, but let us now see and then accept the premise that the tightening of the legislation means fewer, but when you relax the legislation, as the government has done, for example. To abolish the ceiling on cash aid, the so-called start-up aid, and to do more things, means that more will come. To the countries we are comparing ourselves to where these favourable social benefits are not provided, there will be far fewer refugees. I think one could then consider why this is happening. I am not saying that there is no reason why people are fleeing, but I say that at least there is a reason why it is Denmark that we come to, because we have these favourable social benefits. There I am simply asking the government for some kind of recognition of reality, that is to say, that this is the case. And then you could use this money far better down in the neighborhoods where they would really benefit a lot more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154538	It is certainly the case that there are now fewer refugees coming to Denmark. In this way, I do not think there is any reason to rejoice because the number of refugees worldwide does not fall. So there are plenty of people who are still in need and in need of help, and that is why, of course, we have to work on a number of interventions at the same time. There is what we do at home, but of course there is also the effort in the neighbourhood that can improve and where Denmark, fortunately, fills, I think, an important role.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154609	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154611	I do not really believe that there is any party in this Parliament that does not agree that it is good to help the refugees. We're just saying that they need help in the neighbourhoods. And we must, as a party, take this seriously, that the flow of people who have come to this country has led to the creation of parallel societies, a lack of integration, and that there are many on social benefits. This new campaign also bears witness to recognition. So it is basically just for the sake of Denmark and the Danes and Denmark's cohesion in the future. That is what worries me: can we pass on our country to our children and grandchildren in a good condition where there are not a lot of parallel societies and are going on, for example. Islamist terror.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154702	In my view, parallel societies have nothing positive to say about. I also think it is quite obvious that we need to pursue a realistic refugee and immigration policy. I believe that our recent draft law on temporary residence for refugees is an expression of this, but it is equally important to be realistic in other contexts as well. The Danish People's Party has already suggested that we could send refugees from the Middle East to Africa, but I have not yet heard any African leaders accept that idea. That is why I think it is really important to be relatively realistic, honest and sober about this issue. On the one hand, an incredibly high number of people are fleeing, and there are some who are seeking our help, and on the other hand, we must be able to make things work. It is in this mix that we need to find the right solutions, and I think that we are really, really well on our way to Denmark right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154756	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154759	Now, it is part of this question that the President of the Border Agency, Leggeri, says that there are now between 500 000 and 1,000 000 Libyans on their way to Europe. And I just ask in this context whether it was not time to pursue a somewhat tighter, much tighter asylum policy in the fact that it is said that those people should of course not come up here but be helped down there, and then do what you can to help them down there but certainly also for the sake of our own country. If people keep coming up here for social benefits, it's unlimited how many can come.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154842	But that is precisely why we must pursue the right asylum and refugee policy, so that those who really need our help and protection can have it. When we look at the large refugee group that is right now, it is Syrians who are fleeing exactly the militant Islamism, the Islamic State. There we are now working far more than in the past on a concept of temporaryity, which I think makes very good sense. If you come here and if you need our protection, you get it, but as soon as the conditions in your home country dictate it, of course you have to return. That is the new feature of Danish asylum and refugee policy. I am, in effect, pleased that a broad political majority in the Folketing has also chosen to support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154928	That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Question No 5, and then Question No 5 6 has been withdrawn, I can say thank you to both the Minister for Justice and Mr. Christian Langballe. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the This is for the Minister for Employment, and Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154942	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325154954	Thank you, President. The question is: does the Minister believe that it is correct that KL can ignore the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen and therefore not follow the decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155010	I assume that the questioner is referring to the cases that have been in the press about maladministration in a number of municipal cases concerning mutual liability between cohabitants in the cash assistance system, and that reference is made to the KL's letter to the municipalities on the same subject. When the Ankestyrelsen makes a decision in principle, it is binding on the municipalities in similar cases, and neither the municipality nor KL can ignore the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. All municipalities are obliged to constantly familiarise themselves with the applicable rules and practices in this area, and this means that the municipality is obliged to take a decision in accordance with the decision of principle of the Ankestyrelsen. It is up to each municipality to assess which specific cases the Board of Appeal's decision of principle is relevant to. If e.g. the decision has not been notified to both parties, it is invalid and the municipality has to pay cash benefits. What matters to me as a minister is that the municipalities that have had problems are being followed up on them. Municipalities must comply with the rules and principles of administrative law. It is important for the legal certainty of the citizens that the authorities make a correct decision and correct decision. Either way, my expectations for the municipalities are that they will have an assessment of the cases in question as soon as possible and will have a decision taken, and if the assessment is clear, the municipality will of course not have to wait for letters from KL or anyone else before the case is taken up. It is in the interests of both the citizens and the municipality that the matter should be clarified. KL states in the letter they sent to the municipalities that they are in the process of examining the cases for which the decision of principle of the Danish Agency of Appeal is relevant, and that KL will send a letter to the municipalities as soon as possible with a recommendation to the municipalities on the further processing of these particular cases, and it is of course my expectation that KL will thus contribute to a rapid and qualified follow-up of procedural errors in the municipalities, including in cases where citizens need to be reimbursed cash assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155205	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155206	Thank you. That should be a clear speech, and one can then discuss it when KL sends a letter to the municipalities, where they write that they will not respect the Ankestyrelsen. I know that the Minister keeps saying that the citizens have to complain to the Ankestyrelsen when there is something, and you can hardly complain to anyone but to the Ankestyrelsen. Of course, you can bring a civil action, but you have to respect the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. We are in agreement with this in the Danish Parliament, and that is why we have made the Ankestyrelsen. Then it just seems strange that the KL is ignoring it and starting to say to their members: we are not really going to abide by that. I assume the minister has taken hold of KL and said: you have to comply with the Ankestyrelsen. That is what the citizens must do, and the municipalities must also do so on a reciprocal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155313	I can only assure you, sir. Bent Bøgsted, that it is a correct interpretation that the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen must be followed, and that is also what I think I said very precisely in my first answer. No matter who writes letters to whom, it cannot override the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. I might interpret KL's letter differently from Mr. KL's. Bent Bøgsted does, namely, that KL really helps clarify this. But the principle is that the KL cannot override the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155351	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155353	Thank you. I understand from the Minister that in this area we are in any case in agreement on the functioning of the Ankestyrelsen and that that is what we need to align. I don't think I have so much more on this issue, and I really want to move on to the next one, because otherwise they'll overlap, and we might as well go straight to the next one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155416	I won't do anything to delay the process, I promise. So my suggestion is that we follow Mr. Bent Bøgsted and says that Question No. Question No 7 has been closed and we move on to Question No 7. 8.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155430	Thank you, President. One must always be sympathetic to getting the process going, and then it may be that the President will overlook it if I spend five seconds too much on the issue. The question is: Does the Minister believe that KL is acting correctly when they send a letter to the municipalities that the municipalities should not pay cash benefits in cases of mutual dependents until the KL has finished examining the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen that the decisions of the municipalities are invalid and that the citizens should have repaid the detained person in the cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155505	As we have just mentioned, it is up to the individual municipality to assess which specific cases in the municipality of Ankestyrelsen have an impact on the decision of principle. As I said, cases can be different, even if they are similar on the surface. What matters to me is that the municipalities that have problems should be followed up and corrected. At the same time, attention must be paid to the urgent need for citizens to clarify their case. It is also, as we have just said, of course my expectation that what KL wants is to contribute to a rapid but also a qualified follow-up of procedural errors in municipalities, including in cases where citizens have to be reimbursed cash benefits and that their letter and statement to send further material to the municipalities regarding the handling of the case should also be seen in this light. That's clearly my expectation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155554	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155555	Thank you. When you look at how this has happened, some municipalities have started to repay the benefits immediately. There's been a mistake. There hasn't been this party hearing where both parties have to be heard about the relationship. That is also one of the reasons why, I assume, the Minister has abolished the mutual dependent, because it simply did not work as it should and everything was not under control. However, it is not reasonable for some citizens who have been caught up and who have been unduly deprived of their cash benefits to wait for the KL to investigate the cases. There has been no mention of how long it takes to investigate the cases. Maybe it's stalling. And, as I have said, they have sent out that letter to the municipalities that they have to wait to pay back, yet there are municipalities that are in the process of paying back. And they do so independently of that letter because they recognise that mistakes have been made. Then the KL comes and says that we need to look at all the issues first, because it could be that a small chunk in the whole process made it possible for us to avoid paying back the money to the citizens, even if they were actually entitled to get it back. That is how it is perceived, namely that the municipalities are doing what they can to prevent citizens from getting the money they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155727	It is true that I am pleased that in the Finance Act agreement we got with the SF and the Enhedslisten, it was also an element that we removed the mutual dependent. But I guess I'm interpreting this whole case a little differently. Firstly, I hope that no municipalities have such a ugly intention. At least I'd be sorry if that were the case. Secondly, KL cannot delay cases. Once the Anke Agency has made a decision, it is the one to be followed. What I find that KL is actually doing here is being helpful in that these principles are also being followed. And that is what I was told in a speech just now, namely that although matters on the surface may look the same, they do not necessarily have to be so, and that is why it is a specific individual treatment that each case should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155816	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155818	Nevertheless, there are apparently municipalities following that letter and stopping the handling of cases of reimbursement of withheld cash aid to citizens. Apparently that is the case. I'd like to hear about something from the minister. There are mayors who say that the guidance on this has been so foolish that they have not been able to find out, and that it is the guidance that causes mistakes to be made in the municipalities. We have pointed out in connection with the cash benefits negotiations that it was before the Minister became minister in this area that the instructions should be in order. It shouldn't be that it could be misunderstood. We do that all the time when we make suggestions. I appreciate the fact that the government has abolished mutual dependents. The Danish People's Party then also voted in favour of this proposal, because it was not good. But is the Minister ready to see if it is simply these guidelines that are the reason why we are having this affair here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325155927	Let me just make it clear that there is no misunderstanding: there is no letter from one or the other that can override the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. Then I'm glad to be able to congratulate Mr. Bent Bøgsted, who was involved in these negotiations on counselling. I have been involved in the adoption of laws in the Folketing, but I have rarely seen a law in which the instructions are written in in detail and clearly above one side after another. I would like to congratulate both the former Minister and the former negotiating party on this. There's nothing to be wrong about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160007	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160009	Thank you. That is nice to hear, but what is the reason why the municipalities say that they have misunderstood it? There are mayors who have said that guidance has not been clear enough. Then my next question is: how are we to ensure that we produce a guide that is not misunderstood in the municipalities? I agree with the Minister for Employment that it was a fairly thorough guide that was made in connection with the cash aid reform, but if it can still be misunderstood by some mayors who have said that it is wrong to send letters to both parties, then at least it has not been clear enough from the guidance, the consultation of both parties. There must be some reason why there are some people in the municipalities who can misunderstand a guide that is so profound.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160113	I just hope that the mayors' employees have read this better than the mayors who have been out criticizing it. I showed just how extensive it was in the legislation itself. In addition, I can say that, when that is the case, we have among other things. also as a result of the settlement, we made sure that it was on STAR's website, and we made sure that an in-depth briefing letter on the rules was sent to the municipalities during the transitional years. Quite a lot has actually been done, and there is only one thing to say that there are also municipalities that have the duty to live up to the principles of governance, and that cannot be denied even if you are a mayor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160151	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160203	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the Minister believes that the government's objective of getting 10,000 more immigrants into work has succeeded?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160214	It is true that the government has an ambitious goal of increasing the employment of immigrants and descendants by 10,000 people by 2020. And the latest statement from the Ministry of Finance is from 2012, a year after the target has been set, and it shows that, in the way we record it, the structural employment rate has increased by 2,500 people. It's quite well done. I can also inform you that the next inventory will be in 2015. Is the target reached? No, it is not yet, but in view of the fact that it concerns 2020, I do not think it is so bad that we have already come a quarter of the way. Regardless of the objective of the 10,000, I would like to make it clear that there are far too many people with a non-Western background, immigrants and descendants who are actually outside the labour market and that we have too many who are on public subsidies, and that is obviously not satisfactory. That, of course, is also why the government has tackled this and has just made a new proposal for integration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160325	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160326	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. After all, the Minister immediately responds quite quietly and peacefully that structural employment has increased by 2,500 people. And that sounds great to everyone who does not know what that means, but structural employment is an expression used by professionals and economists who say that if there had been no crisis, employment would have increased. That is equivalent to saying that if Denmark were further south, it would be warmer in the country. But there is no such thing, and out of the real world the objective is far from being achieved. The Minister had the great pleasure I had at least the great pleasure, and I hope the Minister had also taken part in a consultation on this some 7 months ago, and then I presented the Minister with some concrete figures, and I would just like to sum it up briefly: in 2008 we had 68,000 non-western immigrants outside the labour market, and that figure had risen to 88,000 in 2013. The number of descendants had increased from 3,000 to 8,000 in 2013. After all, everything else looks a little different from what the Minister tells us about in the Parliamentary Chamber. So what's right? I would like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160427	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160428	What I'm saying is right. But I'm not really drawing another picture either. I say two things in reality. One is that when you look at the target we have up to 2020 • the figures we have are from 2012, and the next figures come from 2015 • you have to say that then we have started well. The second thing I'm saying is, is that good enough? No, it's not. So, there are plenty of figures showing that refugees and family couples who have come to Denmark have not really become part of Danish society. We can take a long time to show figures for that. The government does not want to spend so much energy on that anymore, because we would rather spend the energy on what will then help, namely to ensure that they become part of Danish society, including in terms of jobs and education, and that is what our integration project should of course be seen in the light of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160522	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160522-2	I can therefore welcome the Minister's ambition to share my party with the government. When I ask, this is because it is always nice to have a common starting point, a common problem recognition, so that you can put in proper action. And that is why I am trying to get the Minister to respond a little more specifically to what it looks like in reality. And I assume that the Minister simply cannot provide better data on how employment has developed in 2013 and 2014. It must simply not be possible to do so when the Minister says so in this Chamber. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160553	Well, I have the figures I have provided here. If there are any other figures in other ministries, if there was another way asked, I should not put my head on the block too. Some of this is a little hard to figure out. I know, because I've been working on that integration program. By the way, I am so pleased that the Left shares that ambition. So I really look forward to the fact that we are going to really negotiate our new integration programme down here in the Parliamentary Chamber. So that was when today's happy announcement, I must say.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160628	Then it's the last round for Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160628-2	The Minister should not rejoice too soon, because if I had a little more sense of humor than is the case, I would assess whether we should not all be impeached, because with the Minister's answer and the government's latest proposal, it is up to us to solve all of Denmark's integration problems by 44 million. kr., when the government wants to get 44,000 new dancers into work in the new integration package. A quick calculation tells us that it is a job process that costs DKK 1,467. per person. Now I'm in the town council of Lyngby... we're gonna have a really hard time lifting that. Does the Minister consider this to be realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160708	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160709	No, but I can hear that there is a need for me to provide the extensive service that I'm sending the playout to mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. Because then you can read that there's a lot more and much more concrete in this game. So, of course, I will give the exquisite service so that we can have a discussion about what is actually the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160731	The question is closed. But the next question is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160738	Yes, I will be so service-minded and ask the Minister: does the Minister think that the employment rate for immigrants and refugees of working age is high enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160745	Now I'm tempted. I am really tempted to say no, and then sit down again, because it is logical that it is not also in relation to the discussion we just had. I have to say that there is so much evidence that it is not large enough and there is so much evidence that it is detrimental to the individual and also to the detriment of Danish society. It is precisely in this light that we must be seen that we have now come up with a new proposal. We have come up with a proposal that is primarily based on how we can ensure that those who come to Denmark receive more business-oriented offers than those we offer today. How can we ensure that the three-year integration programme that we have, where we think we are very generous in providing the opportunity to become part of Danish society, also becomes more effective, among other things. What about being able to get to know the Danish language? So the answer to the question is: No, that is not good enough. But the further answer is that it can also be that that's why we've come up with this integration game. Anyone who shares the ambition that this should be done better must, of course, be very happy that we have come up with the integration initiative that we have brought forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160857	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325160859	The only thing is that the government is hurrying slowly. We had a consultation seven months ago, to which I referred earlier, and the Minister's predecessor, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the current Minister for Justice, has also been in consultation on this. Much has simply not happened in this area. On the contrary, the figures we discussed in the conciliation, which are also current today, will show that the employment rate is very low. I am thinking here that financial incentives work. It's something I'm experiencing at home in Lyngby. It is the case that the cash aid reform that we have made goes relatively hard when it comes to young people under the age of 30. We've hired some nice people, among others. an elderly lady with a bone in her neck who evaluates the young people when they come down to the town hall and want cash assistance. If you are able to work, you simply become activated immediately. This means that you meet the next day and help in the areas we have now identified in the municipality. It has the very happy effect of some going out and finding a job, others starting an education. Ergo acts as financial incentives. It is therefore tempting to conclude that the government's policy of granting refugees the right to cash benefits, abolishing a number of the lower benefits that had previously been granted the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash benefits, the start-up aid, etc. etc. This is not just something I am making up; there are some quite detailed answers that show that the people who used to be on these benefits and who have now received higher benefits have not got into work. They've just got an even higher payout from the government once a month. It costs society well and well half a billion. kr. It has not had any effect on employment at all. Now we have entered the fourth year of government life, and a new goal has been set, a new ambition has been achieved, but absolutely nothing has happened. Can the Minister understand if, as an opposition, one is a little bit critical and thinks that a great deal has been said but is done incredibly little?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161046	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161048	There are some who say and I don't belong to that if you really want to tell a deep secret, and it has to remain a secret, you have to say it in the Assembly Hall. But like I said, I don't belong to them. But we could let it come to a test, because it could be fantastic if Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt would then reveal that secret, reveal where the financial incentive should then be more precisely: what is meant by a modern cash aid reform? It could then be a good ambition to move forward with that. Can I also say that a great deal has happened, as the author's party has also contributed to the reform of cash benefits, the reform of early retirement, the reform of sickness benefits and now the reform of employment. This is also what has happened in other ministries: the reform of primary schools, the reform of youth education. And it all adds up to this, too. But I look forward to seeing if that secret can be revealed now here, because that would be very conducive to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161143	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161146	The minister has been in the Parliamentary Chamber for several more years than I have been and probably will be, and can therefore be categorized as an old fox in the trade. It's just a compliment. That is why I think it is a pity that the Minister is using all his speaking time to reply to anything other than what I asked, and instead asks the question: where should the modern ceiling of the Left's cash aid be? If I were a government official, I'd just figure out what that old cash aid ceiling meant, 'cause it's gonna be somewhere nearby. In fact, however, I find it a little strange that the Minister could not take the trouble to answer the questions I asked before. Why hasn't more been done, why hasn't the frequency increased, but the fall, and why hasn't the abolition of our benefits had the employment effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161231	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161233	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, that is exactly what I said. It may happen that the first is experienced as being polemical. I didn't mean it like that. It was just for us to have an even more concrete discussion. But I realized that there may be a clue that the modern cash assistance system is probably near the old one, but leave it at that. I also replied very precisely, because a great deal has happened in advance. It is the way in which the reforms I should not repeat them that they are also of help to the group we are talking about here. Now we come with something we add, I would have almost said, with the integration project, which I am absolutely sure will be of benefit to those who come to Denmark, those who are here, and also to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161312	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161314	After all, it is a pleasure to meet the Minister in the Chamber, and my last question must be very brief, as I sense that we need to move forward in the process. Since incentives can be used in the cash aid system and we have made a cash aid reform together, we are very happy about that, some municipalities are extremely skilled at using it for young cash aid recipients, and we welcome the result together, will the Minister completely refuse that we can also use it in the field of new dancers? It is not, of course, because new dancers are more or less gifted than others; they are just people who may have come here and have some other challenges. But incentives work, we know, for young people. Couldn't they work elsewhere, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161349	That's why I'm happy to see you, too. Jakob Engel-Schmidt says that when we look at the proposal we have put forward, we see the parallelism between it and the cash assistance system we know today, which means that young people who come here and are ready for training will have the same economic ballast as young people who are ready for training in Denmark. But what is my main point here is that if we are to talk about those financial incentives, we need to know what we are talking about, and that requires both sides to play out, and I am sorry to say that I lack one side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161424	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161434	Thank you. The question is this: when you think of the daily lives and finances of the individual citizen, how important does the Minister think it is that citizens who have not been paid cash benefits by mistake receive the rightful afterpayment very quickly, and how will the Minister contribute to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161455	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161458	It is clear that citizens who have not received the cash benefits to which they are entitled must, of course, have it and preferably as soon as possible. Having said that, the cases promoted in the press about maladministration in a number of municipalities, i.e. in the cases of mutual liability between cohabitants in the cash assistance system, have been about the fact that a number of municipalities have not complied with the administrative rules, for example. in relation to the hearing of the parties during their examination of the application for cash benefits. The municipalities must follow up on correcting the cases to be resumed on the basis of the decision of principle of the Ankestyrelsen. It is, in fact, important for the legal certainty of citizens and for those decisions to be right. That is also clear, and Mr. Eigil Andersen also says that as a minister I cannot go into the specific cases, it is and must also be the responsibility of the municipalities. On the whole, I can state that the absence of a party's hearing may result in the decision being invalid and thus not having legal effect. It can, for example, be done. if the hearing of the parties in the particular case was relevant to the disclosure of the case and therefore also to the outcome of the case. However, the absence of consultation of the parties does not necessarily render the decision null and void. And again, it is a concrete assessment on a case-by-case basis. In addition, it is also fundamental that, if a decision has been taken on the relationship and mutual commitment of couples, the persons concerned must be notified of the decision before the decision has effect and can be enforced. If they have not both received the notification, the cash benefits shall be repaid until the date on which the decision is properly notified. So it also has something to do with legal certainty for the individual citizen. But in relation to the main question: if you have not been given the help to which you are entitled, you must, of course, have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161642	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161643	In my view, it is very important that you get that after-payment very quickly, and that is exactly what we are dealing with in these cases, to put it nicely. I think that we should bear in mind that the citizens who have been deprived of their cash benefits are typically people whose economy is going to hang in the laser even more than it might have done in advance so they really need the money. And if we think about how society behaves towards citizens who make mistakes, yes, it is the case that society comes after them very quickly, and therefore the only reasonable thing is that society, when it has made a mistake, too, in this case it is so that the municipalities must pay the money as quickly as possible. There I think that this whole situation in the municipal area has become extremely chaotic and messy, and it has now stretched over at least two months, as far as I can see, and possibly even a little longer. There I would like to ask the Minister, because I agree that the municipalities have the main responsibility for following the administrative law, so the main responsibility for making the right party's hearing is correct: what has the Minister done to promote that process of clarity? In other words, I have previously called on the Minister of Employment, for example. to take a meeting with KL and possibly involve the Ankestyrelsen to help solve the matter in relation to the municipalities. As a minister, I believe there is a duty to help. The word minister means servant, and one might even expand it a little and say that it is the servant of the people. It's a very distinguished title. And here it can be said that there are at least some people who have a poor economy they need the money, and they often have large debts and there I think that one could help to clarify, as a minister, for example. to hold some dialogue meetings with KL, Ankestyrelsen etc. to get this lit properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325161853	I would like to say two things. One is that when the Ankestyrelsen has made a decision, there should be no discussion about it; then it should be followed. The second is that neither I, sir. Eigil Andersen or anyone else must advise and guide in relation to the principles of administrative law, that is, they are quite clear. If I'm not wrong, sir. Eigil Andersen also helped to negotiate exactly the cash benefits law at the time, and I have to say that I have sometimes been involved in making legislation, but I have actually very rarely seen that you have been as precise as you were there in relation to the principles of administrative law that were at the root. I must therefore say that it is up to the municipalities to administer this. In fact, I think that the legislators, including Mr. Eigil Andersen I can safely praise that, because I was not a part of it myself has been very precise. In addition, this following and I think that was actually also in the conciliation circle was put on, among other things. STAR's website and orientation letters were made to the municipalities. So there should basically be, sir. Eigil Andersen, don't be a problem, compared to what we have informed the municipalities about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162008	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162009	Now, in fact, I have not been involved in the negotiations on the cash benefits reform because I had three months' sick leave, where I received a radiotherapy, but it should not separate us in any way. I do not agree with what the Minister is saying here, and here I am talking about proper procedures; that is what I am sticking to. The municipalities want clarity, they want guidance, the mayors want it, and this is also the case here. That is why I am incomprehensible that the Minister has not taken any initiatives to help the municipalities get the necessary clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162051	Yes, praised the one that should be praised. Someone's definitely gotta be praised. Forgive me for saying this so bluntly: should it be that some people are peeking about lack of clarity, make us say that there is something wrong then? No, it really makes me say " and now I'm pulling it out again. " When the law was passed, we were very careful to describe it here. And afterwards things were placed on STAR's website, information letter, etc. That is why I would just like to say that this is the duty of the municipalities, namely to ensure that they treat their citizens according to the legislation which Mr. Eigil Andersen and I have passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162134	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162136	Unfortunately, there is a misunderstanding here. I am not talking about the guidance material linked to the cash benefits reform. I am talking about the procedure that is going on and that there should be a hearing of the parties, as the Minister has also mentioned. This is a completely different set of rules, and I would like to point out that I believe that the Minister should help to clarify what these rules are like. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he does not think that it is simply a mistake for the National Association of Municipalities to send out a letter calling collectively on the municipalities to put all cases at a standstill. Is it not true that this should be done on an individual basis in each case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162219	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162220	I don't think I understand the letter from KL the same way. And let me just say: there is no letter from the KL that can override the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen. No matter how many letters you receive or from whomever you get letters, you must follow them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162237	The question is closed. But there is another question for the Minister for Employment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162245	I read out the joke: When one starts from a necessary boundary between the individual's intimate sphere and the public authorities, what does the Minister think of the fact that the two persons in question have sex together as an argument for a municipal decision on mutual dependents, cf. articles at Avisen.dk on 25 February and 15 March 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162308	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162310	It is clear that I cannot comment on the specific decision and certainly not on an act which is mentioned here. I will stay far away from commenting on that. However, I would like to explain how the rules on mutual liability between cohabitants can lead a municipality to assess whether cohabitation is of a marriage-like nature. There are some conditions which must be met for two persons to be considered as cohabitants according to the objective criteria laid down in the law. Both must be 25 years old, both must be unmarried, they must have a common residence, they must not be relatives in ascending or descending lines, and they must not be siblings. In addition to these requirements, it is a condition that they have at least one common child, that they have not been listed as cohabitants in relation to ATP, or that they have previously been married to each other. If these requirements are met, the persons are living together. If none of the first five requirements are met, they are not cohabitants under the legislation of the Social Security Code. If the fifth requirement is met, but not the sixth requirement, if the municipality has information indicating that the relationship is of a marriage-like nature, the municipality may enter into a detailed examination of the case. Any decision will then always be based on a specific individual assessment in each case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162429	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162430	I'm not quite able to intercept whether I was right or not, or whether that was a non-answer. I think it was mostly the last, i.e. a list of the rules that exist. What this is based on is a very specific case, where there are a couple in Hjørring Municipality who get a letter from which I will read a quote with the permission of the President: You live together and fuck together. Quote out. This is simply stated in the municipal letter. It attaches importance to the municipality. A Head of Division says: At a KL seminar on the reform of cash benefits, the lecturer made it very explicit that it should be a relationship of love, and it is customary that in a relationship with one another you have sex together, so that is the interpretation we assume. That's what a head of office from Hjørring Municipality says. I think that we are simply talking about something here where it is necessary that we have a sharp line between what belongs to privacy and what public authorities should interfere in at all. Having said that, I would also like to say that I do not believe that having sex together has any bearing on whether or not you are a couple. I would like to try to illustrate this. There are people who live together as couples who don't have sex. This may be due to the fact that they do not want to do so, but there are some who feel that way, but it may also be due to more serious things, for example. disease. There are also some who live together and have sex without them forming couples. There are also some who live in the same place and have sex with people elsewhere, perhaps even changing partners. After all, there is a great variation in how people feel in the field of sexuality, and because you have sex with several partners in different places, you don't get mutually dependent towards them. In other words, the question of whether or not you have a sexual relationship, I think, in short, and also in its content, is totally inappropriate to clarify whether you are a couple because it is so different, but the principle is also that I simply do not think that this is something that public authorities should include in any decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162639	It is quite true that sex driving and train driving are one of the most difficult things to manage. I fully agree with that. But I just have to say to Mr. Simpson... Eigil Andersen, that it is impossible for me to comment on a single case, even a choice of words from a case worker who might well have more pli. I just wanted to say that I read out very precisely what it was that was the reason when you were doing this, for sir. Eigil Andersen's party was also part of it. I also said very precisely what it is that is needed in order to be regarded as a cohabitant. I would also like to say that then we are in some of this, which is difficult, but there are, in fact, some relatively objective, precise criteria for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162728	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162730	I would like to ask whether the Minister does not agree with me that we are facing questions of principle here. In short, I think that the Minister should distance himself here from the fact that it can be a subject at all in a procedure, whether or not you have sex together. I would strongly urge the Minister to refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162756-2	I think, sir. Eigil Andersen is fully aware that I cannot go in and judge a case based on the conversation we now have here. I can go so far as to say that one might well choose another way of formulating oneself. In any case, I can say so precisely that if I had been the case officer, perhaps I would have formulated myself in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162818	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162819	But, of course, the Minister cannot go into the specific case, let alone change it. It's a municipal task. But when I draw it forward here, it is because I really see it as an important principle in the relationship between the citizen and society. That is why I think the Minister could disapprove of the fact that it should be an element. I will use it as an example and ask what if it has been included as an element, and if the couple in question has sex, and then they find out 14 days after that they are no longer having sex, then they have to report it to the municipality, and should you say: Now there is no longer mutual commitment? I hope the Minister can see that it is simply grotesque to talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162858	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162859	Yeah. I think sir... Eigil Andersen himself said that it was perhaps also part of having a relationship, and some did so for one reason or another, and others did not. I am not sure, I think, at Question Time, how much to weight sex and not sex in relation to mutual dependents.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162922	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. The next question is to the tax minister by Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162936	Thank you. My question is this: is it still the Minister's intention to abolish the advertising tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162942	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325162943	Thank you for the question. I said in a consultation on the advertising tax in the Committee on Taxation last December that the government would convene the parties to the agreement, SF and Enhedslisten, to discuss the advertising tax at the beginning of the new year. This is due both to the unexpected large drop in advertising volumes, which means that the original purpose of the tax has been met, and to the criticism of advertising charges which have been made, among other things, by the Commission. the industry. That's why I called SF and Enhedslisten for discussions at the beginning of the year. We have therefore begun discussions on the advertising tax, but the discussions have not yet been concluded, as the questioner has also mentioned. This also means that I cannot make a statement about the advertising tax and whether it is abolished or not. However, I can say that if the advertising tax is to be abolished, there must be other funding, as the advertising tax is part of the financial law agreement. Unfortunately, I cannot say any more about what the government is thinking about the possible abolition of the advertising tax. This is due to the consideration for the further course of the debate, and I hope the questioner understands that. However, as I said, the government has listened to the concerns expressed about the advertising tax, and that is why I have discussions with the parties to the agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163107	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163109	Thank you for that answer, which was basically not an answer. It was a process description. So the trivial question is this: does the Minister of Taxation think that the advertising tax should continue to be implemented, or does the Minister of Taxation think that it should be abolished? I am not interested in all the procedural considerations. I am asking about the Minister's political position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163132	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163134	I can thus answer as simple as that I am looking for options for. However, as I said, it depends on the fact that there are some parties to the agreement with which we can reach an agreement on this. I regret that the questioner is asking about this in the middle of a debate. As I also said at the outset, I hope there is respect for the fact that when a process is under way, the process must go the way it is now going.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163201	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163202	Thank you for not replying, but I see it in that way that it can be concluded that the advertising tax can at least not take effect in 2015, that goes without saying. The government to which the Minister belongs is, of course, very concerned that consultation deadlines should be respected, or it went so far that one can conclude that after three months the Minister is still unable to give an answer as to whether or not it meant what was said at the end of 2014. That is quite fair, but I conclude that the government has not succeeded in putting forward a bill in this Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163240	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163241	As I said at the outset, as I said in December, we wanted to look into the possibilities. We are still in the process of doing so, and these negotiations are continuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163252	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163254	Does the Minister believe that it is possible to put forward a legislative proposal in relation to the deadline of April so that it can be implemented and adopted before this parliamentary assembly is over?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163309	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163310	It is the case that the latest report on the government's legislative programme shows that the bill on advertising tax has been postponed until April, but it is also clear that the further progress will depend entirely on the outcome of the discussions currently being held by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163327	The question is closed. But the next question is also addressed to the tax minister by Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163334	Thank you. The question is: how long does the Minister think that a decision on the advertising tax can reasonably be postponed, taking due account of the many companies with turnover and jobs at stake?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163343	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163344	Thank you, too, for this question. As I also said in the answer to the previous question, the government has invited SF and Enhedslisten to discuss the advertising tax. The negotiations, as I mentioned earlier, have not been concluded. They have not been doing so in the meantime, while we have been replying lately and, unfortunately, as long as the negotiations have not been concluded, I cannot make a statement either. However, as has already been said, I understand very well that the companies affected by the advertising tax need clarification. That is why I am also working to ensure that an announcement can be made as soon as possible. However, when you are in a negotiating process, there are very different things that need to be clarified, and that is what we are doing. However, when we are ready to make a statement, the companies will of course also have time to adjust to it. The political discussions on the advertising tax are due, inter alia, to: a criticism by the professions of the advertising tax. It is a criticism that the government has listened to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163445	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163446	Thank you for the same answer again in a new form. I would like to sign for that because sometimes it can be difficult, I think, the Minister did well. But the Minister is also strong in the hot air and has been through his political career and will probably continue to be. But I can only say that we are not getting closer today. The Minister is not in a position to say anything about when you have a position on whether or not you want to introduce the advertising tax. There is, of course, as the Minister says, that this government has financed part of its policy on advertising fees. Then you may have had cold feet, but then you say that it must depend on the negotiations with Enhedslisten and SF. Of course, I think it can take a long time. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister whether, if the advertising tax is to be introduced, the Minister will guarantee that there will be a consultation period of the month that is usually given in relation to good governance, and in this context when the Minister is counting on it as question 2, that one is able to tell something about the process that has now taken at least several years, and in which the Minister is then engaged in some dialogue for three months, which can certainly be very difficult with those parties. I think that can be the only thing the Minister has said today that is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163557	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163559	Now, of course, I am not going to comment on the specific negotiations or, for that matter, begin to give out grades in relation to the style of the negotiating partners, but at least allow me to conclude that it is the case that the original environmental purpose of the tax has actually been achieved, given that there has been a marked reduction in the number of advertisements. Although I cannot comment on the specific course of the negotiations, I would also like to say that we must, of course, think about finding alternative funding. It should, of course, be the case that this funding is a better alternative than the advertising tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163643	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163645	Thank you. I don't think we're getting any closer today. I note that the tax minister says without saying that the advertising tax is a stupid idea; it has to be financed in a different way; I have not succeeded in doing so with the parties behind it, but I will come back when I have a solution to it. So, of course, we await that in excitement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163704	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163706	I also thank you, of course, for your attention on this. It can sometimes be a little difficult to get exactly smart on the Left. This is an area which has been turned many times in consultation and in countless numbers of questions, so I am fully aware that the Left is very concerned about this tax, but I have not at any time heard that the party has so indicated that it was itself interested in taking responsibility in any way. However, I also think that this is essential to remember and to take part in the debate. But thank you for the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163741	Will Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen in again?
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163745	Thank you for your comment. I would just like to say to the tax minister that we have been inspired in this case, like so many others by a very well-known former opposition politician named Benny Engelbrecht, so that is who we have leaned on in relation to asking many questions. I know Benny Engelbrecht is very strong in that exercise, so we're also trying to get better at ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163802	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163803	I think it has to be said that on this point the Left has certainly managed to refine a technique far beyond what I, as a private member of the Folketing, was able to cope with. In any case, a great many pieces of paper have been added to the case in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163831	The question has been closed, and that means that the three Members present are free for other work. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150325163842	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 26 March 2015, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
