ParlaMint-DK_20150826130004	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130008	Zenia Stamp (RV) has applied for leave from 1 September 2015 due to pregnancy and childbirth. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130036	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the first deputy for the Radical Left in the Greater Sjælland district, Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen is hereby approved as a member of the Folketing as from 1 September 2015 on the occasion of Zenia Stampe's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130103	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour 99 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0 [no votes for or against 1 (EL)(by mistake) ]. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130139	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130158	The vote has started. The vote is over. In favour 51 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 49 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130334	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? That does not seem to be the case. As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130408	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Employment. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130420	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130430	The vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour 87 (S, DF, V, LA, KF and 1 (SF) (by mistake)) voted against 15 (EL, ALT and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130504	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130532	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 8 (LA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130612	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? I call Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826130632	Thank you. The overall draft law, L 2, is, after all, about the so-called 'integration benefit' • I think that the 'anti-integration benefit' would be a more appropriate term, since there is no doubt that this proposal will mean massive poverty for some people, namely refugees, who are already very difficult to find. Poverty creates the opposite of integration, poverty pushes people into isolation. The Enhedslisten has chosen to table two amendments, and it is because of the two proposals that I am going to take the floor now. On Thursday, August 20th, an article could be read in Jyllands-Posten under the heading: "The Conservatives will mitigate the consequences of the government's austerity. Of course, in the Enhedslisten, we would like to see the three legislative proposals we are discussing today, which undermine the services of the refugees and which would therefore cause enormous problems, removed altogether, but it is certainly encouraging if the Conservatives would at least alleviate some of the most severe consequences of these deteriorating services. In this article, the Conservatives' Integration Rapporteur, Mr. Nase Khader, talk about the situation that arises when a refugee has passed Danish examination 1 and then is not entitled to more free Danish education and cannot afford to pay for it because of the very low integration benefit. If the refugee is to have the so-called language bonus of DKK 1,500, it is not enough to pass Danish exam 1, because then you will have to pass Danish exam 2, but there are very many refugees who will not have access to it. Sir. Nas Khader says in Jyllands-Posten's article, and I quote: "People are not supposed to pay for a test that we ourselves encourage them to take. And then Mr. Nas Khade that it must be free to go from level 1 to level 2. I fully agree that it is unreasonable to demand that refugees pay for the education and the Danish test needed to get this language bonus, and I am very pleased that Mr. Nase Khader and the Conservatives seem to share that view. This actually means that there is the possibility of making a majority bypassing the government, which will allow all refugees to receive this language bonus, which can therefore significantly improve the financial situation of refugees. If more people are given a real opportunity to get the bonus, they will be a little less poor, but they will also have a better opportunity to achieve successful integration, because they will be better in Danish and thus have better access to the labour market. Encouraged by Mr. Nas Khader's statements have Enhedslisten tabled two amendments to this bill on integration services. The first and the most far-reaching amendment is Amendment A, which means that persons who have passed Danish examination 1 can receive Danish education free of charge 2 and go up to Danish examination 2. I hope and believe that this is the arrangement, sir. Nase Khader outlined in Jyllands-Posten, but it certainly is if you are to take the quotes at face value. The second proposal is an amendment B. It is such a less far-reaching model, and we have done so in the interests of safety, i.e. in case Mr. Nas Khade didn't quite mean what he said anyway, and it's about refugees of course not having to pay the approximately DKK 1,200 for which the fee for the test is charged. You could say that if I've misunderstood sir... Nas Khader, and his party cannot therefore vote in favour of Amendment A, I assume, of course, that the Conservatives can vote in favour of the small model, namely Amendment B on the test fee. We have on question No. Forty-three to the draft law was given an answer to the cost of these two amendments. Proposal A will cost 14.5 million. kr. Every year, and if we settle for the small model, it will cost 500,000 kroner. annual. Sir. Nas Khader has, of course, been in politics long enough to know that it is certainly not amounts of the order of magnitude that overturn the public budgets, and the government is, moreover, counting on a considerably greater saving as a result of the overall legislative proposals here. So I very much hope that the Conservatives will vote in favour of the amendment so that we can ensure that it is not just such a nice glaze when it is said that refugees can improve their economic situation by passing language test 2, but that we are actually giving them 34 to 39 per cent. of the refugees, who are being put into Level 1 today, a real opportunity to get this bonus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131123	Are there any brief comments? That is not the case. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131134	Thank you very much. I will be very brief. As Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen has already explained quite clearly all the reasons why she has tabled these amendments, namely that Mr Kellett-Bowman's motion for a resolution was rejected by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Nase Khader has stated that refugees do not, of course, have to pay to go to Danish exam 2. So I would just like to say that I am very, very pleased that Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen immediately grabbed the ball, that she made two wonderfully good amendments so quickly, which will mitigate the very serious legislative proposal that we are going to vote on today, quite a bit. It will lead to poverty and no integration, and it will not keep people away from the country. But I hope at least you can improve the bill with this tiny bitch. We will, of course, vote in the alternative for both amendments and, incidentally, against the overall proposal, since it is so minimal. However, I would like to thank Mr. Nase Khader to come forward with that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131238	Are there any brief comments? That is not the case, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131245	Thank you. For SF it has also been a prerequisite from the start that when people come to the country, they get the best opportunities to learn Danish. And although this is a proposal for an integration benefit, we have argued in the past that it is an exclusion benefit, because you do not learn the language, you just will not be able to take lessons if you start your Danish exam 1. That is why we are going to vote in favour of both amendments, and we think it is such a sort of hand-out to those politicians who call it an integration grant. I suppose everyone agrees that the best integration is when you learn the language, and so you only do that if you can afford to go to teaching. That is why we will be supporting these two amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131340	There are no brief comments, thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131349	I stand by what I have said, both to Jyllands-Posten, but also to DR's Orientation. We agree with Enhedslisten that new arrivals of refugees, when they go from Danish examination 1 to Danish examination 2, do not have to pay for it themselves. That is what we say to people when they are new arrivals, namely that they will receive free language training, and we stand by that. However, we cannot vote in favour of the Enhedslisten amendments for two reasons. This is partly the financial situation we need to find the money and partly it is not an acute problem. What we are adopting today includes those who come to Denmark after 1 September this year. In the near future, we will have to start negotiations on those who are already here. There will be a lot of money saved, and we will then spend some of that money on Danish education. So we cannot vote in favour of the amendments, but we insist that they do not have to pay, either for education or for fees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131505	There is a brief comment from Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131507	But Mr. Nase Khader knows very well that the economic consequence of these proposals is simply that the savings made by cutting significantly the benefits of the refugees will be a little less. In other words, it does not make sense to say that money must be found when the big overall proposal, to which this amendment refers, is about saving money. I guess so, sir. Nase Khader can confirm. The second is that Mr. Nase Khader says that it may take a few months for the problem to materialise. Yes, but, sir. Nase Khader, the problem arises from this bill. We can prevent the problem from arising by adopting these two amendments. Would it not be wiser to prevent the problem from occurring rather than creating it and then perhaps try to find a solution to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131559	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131600	I repeat, this is not an acute problem. Nobody's gonna get hit by it this year. I have spoken to the Minister for Integration and have said that this is our position. People do not have to pay for Danish education or for the fee to go up, and we have agreed to include it in the negotiations on the second part of the tightening. And that's where we'll find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131622	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131622-2	That's right, sir. Nase Khader. It is not an acute problem, and it is because the problem does not yet exist. The problem arises when Mr. Nase Khader and the Conservatives are about to vote for this bill. Sir. Nase Khader and the Conservatives could prevent the problem from arising by voting in favour of these amendments. I have to say that what we are hearing here is an exceptionally bad excuse for not voting in favour of these two amendments. To vote for them would be to pursue a policy consistent with that, Mr President. Nas Khader has told the media. But, of course, in the Enhedslisten, we will keep the Conservatives and, above all, Mr. Nase Khader on the promises that have come from the platform today, namely that in future work will be done to make the transition from Danish education 1 to Danish education 2 free of charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131714	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131716	I can reply briefly to that. What we go to the negotiations on the second part of the asylum restrictions is that Danish education and the fee for going up to Danish exam 2 must be free of charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131739	If there is no request for a vote, I consider Amendment No. 1 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, as adopted. It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 by Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL). I shall start the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 by Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL). I shall start the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. If there is no request for a vote, I consider Amendment No. 2-4 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131909	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826131923	I think it is an extremely sad day, and I think it is because these three legislative proposals, and not least the legislative proposal on the so-called 'integration benefit', and I mean it sincerely when I say that a more appropriate word would be 'unintegration benefit' or 'non-integration benefit', will mean that the number of children growing up in poverty will grow significantly. In addition to the specific children, the specific families affected, this will also be a problem for all of us, because poverty is a barrier to integration. A huge problem is being pushed out to the municipalities. They say to the municipalities: you have to accept some refugees. But we are giving refugees so little economic conditions to live under that the municipalities will have to deal with severe social problems. It's totally unfair. The government has two main arguments. One argument is: if we make it difficult to be a refugee in Denmark, if we make these people poorer, then fewer refugees will seek it. There is absolutely no evidence to support this claim. We've tried this experiment before. This was done in the '00s when the VKO introduced the startup aid. And we can see that the number of refugees who came to Denmark followed the number of refugees who came to Europe at all, completely unaffected by the introduction of start-up aid. So argument no. One won't hold. Argument no. 2 is that this low performance is going to get people into work. First of all, we must say again that we have tried this kind of experiment. The startup aid meant that about 14 per cent. extra came into work, and the rest just became poor; and I just say in quotation marks, because I think it is deeply serious, and it meant violent and massive social problems both for the people it suffered, but also for the Danish society as a whole. Because it is not good for Danish society when social problems are created; it is bad for all of us. In addition, this argument that poverty will get refugees into work is even more absurd because this low level of benefit also applies to those people who are not considered to be ready for work. Well, the public says to them on the one hand: we make you poor because we think this is the way to get you into work. But on the other hand, they are told: we do not think you are able to work. In other words, if there is any logic in what the government is putting forward, the low level of service should not be allowed to apply to those people whom the Danish authorities consider to be too ill and too traumatized to enter the Danish labour market immediately. Then there's this whole thing about the so-called language bonus. I thought it was an embarrassing round, sir. Nase Khader and the Conservatives delivered from the platform today. Sir. Nas Khader has clearly said in Jyllands-Posten that it is of course pointless to make a language bonus, like 34-39 per cent. of the refugees who come here are actually cut off because they are put into action on what is called Danish education 1 and when they are finished there they have no right to move on to Danish education 2. I was so happy when I read Mr. Nas Khader's statement in Jyllands-Posten and thought, "That's wonderful; Nas Khader can see the unwise, you can say, in that you cut off these many people from the bonus. And that's why I expected Mr. Nase Khader would vote for us to ensure that those who have passed Danish education 1 can move on to Danish education 2 and take a test there, so that it is all refugees who really have the opportunity to take this test. Firstly, it would mean that more people were given the opportunity to have a little more to live on, and secondly, it should be an objective, an ambition for a united Parliament, that the refugees who come here should learn Danish as soon as possible. Everyone knows that it makes it easier to get a job, but it also makes school-home cooperation easier when you can actually understand what is on the intranet. Sir. Nas Khader has voted against. Like I said, I think it's an embarrassing round. The argument is that for the cheap version it costs 500,000 DKK. annual. Everyone who has dealt with financial law negotiations knows that it is possible to find DKK 500,000. annual in the total Danish budget. And besides, this proposal is all about saving. So that is to say, you just wanted to save a little less by introducing this proposal. As I said, it is a sad day, and I think it is actually misleading to call this an integration benefit, because the result will certainly be exactly the opposite, and it will have violent consequences for the people it affects, not least the children, and for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132431	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132434	Recently Kolding Municipality announced that the number of refugees is now so large that they are drowning. Earlier in the summer, 61 Danish mayors reported that they are under pressure because of the large number of refugees. Kolding Municipality has even been out recently and had to accommodate refugees in hotels for over 20,000 DKK. per person per month. Does the rapporteur not think that it is essential that we put a stop to this massive influx of asylum seekers seeking to target Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132506	Firstly, there is absolutely no evidence that these benefits mean that fewer refugees come to Denmark. Secondly, I wonder if Kolding Municipality will get easier or harder to find accommodation for the refugees who are placed in Kolding Municipality, now that you're halving the benefits of these people. I guess it's gonna be harder for Kolding Municipality to get housing. At least that is what a large number of other mayors have been out to say. I saw sir. Marcus Knuth in Deadline on DR2 last night with the mayor of Bornholm. The mayor of Bornholm said very clearly: sir. Marcus Knuth, we're going to have huge problems with integration into the municipalities when you're halfway the service. Sir. Marcus Knuth never really dealt with the claim in the otherwise rather long debate that was on DR2 last night. Perhaps it's too much to ask that Mr. Marcus Knuth relates to the otherwise perfectly reasonable question of the mayor of Bornholm in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132609	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132612	Now my question was as follows: did the rapporteur agree that we should curb this massive influx of people who are going towards Denmark? According to this, what is the rapporteur's position on Frontex's annual report, which states that it is believed that many are targeting those countries with the highest social benefits? I guess that's a comment that researches Torben Tranæs, earlier from the Rockwool Foundation, backed the Stock Exchange on Monday. Here he points out that overall research in this area indicates that a lower level of benefits will reduce the influx of asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132648	I've been desperately trying to get the government to relate to what that Frontex commentary is based on, because Frontex is not a scientist. Frontex is the EU's border cooperation. I have not been able to obtain any documentation. Well, it's exciting if Mr. Simpson... Marcus Knuth or the government could present it in the Assembly Hall today. Again, we've tried this kind of experiment before. We did it in the '00s with the starter help. The low start-up aid did not affect the number of refugees who came to Denmark, but it had a very clear consequence. It had the consequence that poverty grew and that social problems exploded. This became a major problem for the municipalities. It became a major problem for the refugees it suffered and for Danish society at all. I think it is so unfortunate that the Left and Mr. Marcus Knuth completely closes his eyes to the obvious consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132744	There is one more brief comment. It's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, who wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132748	I would like to ask Enhedslisten whether there is a suggestion as to why quite a lot of asylum seekers are trying to cross the border between France and Britain via the tunnel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132805	I almost think that the rapporteur of the Left should ask a migration scientist about this. A bid I have heard is that there is a labour market in England where it is relatively easy, if I may say so, to work illegally.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132825	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132826	It also illustrates that what gets crowds moving is not only a question of going to a place where you are free from war and persecution, but also a question of where, in one way or another, legally or illegally, you have the opportunity to give your family the best economic conditions, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132849	I certainly do not reject, and never did, the importance of living conditions in the countries to which they are fleeing. I note that there is no evidence at all that the start-up aid caused fewer refugees to come to Denmark. On the other hand, there is a great deal of evidence that this meant massive social problems. I wish there were no refugees in the world, and it is undoubtedly difficult to accept refugees; that is clear. On the one hand we are dealing with people who often have severe trauma in their luggage, and on the other hand we often have to deal with people who have a very different culture than the Danish one. Of course, I wish there were zero refugees, but there is what the government here is doing, which has consequences for the whole of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132946	There is one more brief comment, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826132950	I'd really like to follow up on Mr. Martin Knuth's question to the rapporteur on whether the Enhedslisten will help limit the flow. There has been discussion and debate about housing, but now it is the case that Enhedslisten has helped to give refugees a legal right to housing. In other words, they come in front of our young students and our pensioners in the home queue and also get cheap housing. So can the rapporteur confirm that there is a ceiling on how much a refugee has to pay in rent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133028	It is quite true that the municipalities have a duty to try to provide a refugee accommodation which comes here, which is very, very difficult task for the municipalities now that they are doing this very low service. And I think it is such a pity that the government and also the Danish People's Party are not at all willing to listen to the many mayors who say: You know what, government, you know what, right-wing, you are putting us on a completely impossible task. I certainly agree with the Danish People's Party that there are also problems with Danes not being able to get cheap housing. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That is why I am also concerned that there are several parties in the blue block who have talked about changing the regulation on rents. This will mean that the number of cheap rentals in Denmark will be reduced even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133118	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133121	Does Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen not think that the Danes are discriminated against by refugees taking the lead in the home queue? In other words, we discriminate against our own citizens. And then I would really like to hear: How many people believe Enhedslisten that Denmark can accept? Is it not better, and can we not help even more, by helping in the neighbourhood and strengthening efforts there? After all, there has been a debate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133157	That was two questions. I take the first question as a call. I understand that the Danish People's Party will go to the government for the forthcoming financial negotiations, namely the Left, and say that you want far more cheap housing and perhaps even a housing guarantee for Danish students. That proposal will Enhedslisten to such an extent support, if that is what the Danish People's Party here says. I look forward very much to the funding of the Danish People's Party, but we will of course support the proposal. Secondly, I am glad that the Danish People's Party is bringing up the neighbourhoods, because one of the arguments that is constantly being thrown in the head is that we have to do something in the neighbourhoods. I agree. More than 95%. of the world's refugees are either internally displaced or living in the vicinity. There is a need for massive support in the neighbourhoods, which is why it is also so absurd that the Danish People's Party wants to cut sharply in the development aid that is just going to strengthen the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133250	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I give the floor to Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133257	Thank you. For the Danish People's Party, it is absolutely crucial that we now implement some measures that limit the influx to Denmark, especially the influx via the asylum system. There have been a number of years with a government which has made no attempt to control immigration, especially those coming from non-western countries. Now we are in the process and are trying to get better control of immigration. And these are the first steps on the way. We're not in port, but we're on our way. We'd like to see this bill passed first. These are exciting votes that we have in the Parliamentary Chamber, it has to be in place first, and then we would like to see these rules also apply to those who came to the country and were granted a residence permit under the previous government, because we think it is reasonable that they should also be affected by the bill. We also want us to have a general service check on the asylum area and, among other things, on asylum. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. As we also said by the Danish People's Party when we made the agreement, we consider this to be a good start, but that, if it is up to us, is only a start. The immigration, also through the asylum system, which we have seen for many years, is pushing our culture, pushing our economy, and it is also a discussion that is about the fact that if we want to afford welfare, proper health care, etc., then we have to give priority, and immigration policy is also about giving priority to economic priorities. So if this bill is adopted, it is a step on the way, and it will certainly be good for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133431	There are no brief comments? Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133436	Thank you very much. Sir. Martin Henriksen came to say: those who are hit by the bill. Of course, if you are hit by a bill, you will be very negatively affected. Something unpleasant hits you. Otherwise you will be covered by a bill or come under a bill, but here you will be hit by it, and that is exactly the point. These people will be affected by a legislative proposal which will not have the effect at all which they intend to achieve. That will not stop immigration, because we saw it with the previous start-up aid, namely that it did not slow down immigration. If you really wanted to have fewer refugees in Denmark, you could, for example, have fewer refugees in Denmark. let the EU take over the refugee and asylum policy, but no one in this Chamber, at least very few, except the alternative. If it were the European Union that was in charge of asylum policy, then there would be fewer refugees in Denmark, and that would not be the inhumane policy that we are now proposing to adopt. If you wanted the refugees to enter the labour market, you could do various other things. For example: the refugees come to Gentofte Municipality and say: Can we not get an internship soon? The answer is, no, you'll have to wait for that. So they ask: when will we get an internship? The answer is: Come back later. When they return at a later stage, they will be told again that they will come back later. Really facilitating access to the labour market would mean that the refugees would actually get there, but today it is very, very difficult for refugees to enter the labour market. So instead, you choose to make them poor, you choose to hit them with this bill. Frontex, as has been pointed out several times, says itself that what is on their website cannot be used as a basis at all for whether it is really social benefits that refugees go for when they come to Denmark. So by no means will it mean that the government will achieve its goal. On the contrary, people will be made poor. What does the government say when all the consultation answers we've been given say this is going to mean poverty? Then the government says no, because the refugees are entering the labour market. They won't be poor. On the contrary, they get jobs and their children do not have to live with unemployed parents, so it is also good for the children, they say in the government, when they say that children become poor, they cannot afford to go to football, they cannot afford to go to children's birthdays, they do not go to camp school. Well, yes, the government says, indeed they do, because their parents get into the labour market. When you say that parents do not enter the labour market, because all the consultation answers also point out that parents do not actually enter the labour market, what does the government say? Then the government just says, "We disagree with that." There is no evidence of why they actually enter the labour market. Yeah, you have a little lobe. It points to a study by the Rockwool Foundation which says that you will actually enter the labour market after four years. But it says precisely that in the first two years you will not be able to enter the labour market. On the contrary, some people are falling out of the labour market, namely women, who most need to get out there, says the Rockwool Foundation. But that is the only argument the government has for people to actually get out there. It is 9% that comes out after four years, and I do not think that argument is such that I am absolutely impressed by it. So the government has only one argument: people get into the labour market and when everyone else says that they don't, the government just says it disagrees. That is why I fully agree with Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen that this is a really sad day for Denmark. It is a sad day for democracy. We know that this country has become rich because we have the greatest degree of equality in Denmark. This is something that really makes a country prosperous. And now we are in the process of making this country unequal, and we are creating inequality for the most vulnerable, the very weakest people who come to this country, and I really do not think we can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133915	Then there are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826133920	Thank you. Now we have heard a lot from the left denying that the start-up aid should have had any impact on how many immigrants or refugees have come to Denmark, and that is why I just have to ask Ulla Sandbæk if she really wants to deny that 3,500 are fewer than 12,500. For that is what was actually happening: approx. 12,500 to Denmark before the previous government stepped in and that figure reached 3,500 when we were down to the smallest figure. I just want to know if Mrs Ulla Sandbæk will deny it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134006	No, I will not deny that, but at the same time there has been war in Syria, and I would like to know whether the parties which are now in favour of this bill do not believe that the flow of refugees has anything to do with the war in Syria at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134023	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134024	In other words, it is now possible that Mrs Ulla Sandbæk has an idea of when war has arisen in Syria, which is different from mine, but as far as I remember, there was no war in Syria when the previous government, that is, the former government of the VK, ruled, as it were. So I do not see how it should have affected the asylum seeker numbers in the period from 2001 to 2011, but leave it at that. But is not the fact that the alternative, that is, the party represented by Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, really does not see any problem at all in the fact that thousands more refugees are coming to Denmark than have been done in the past? Is not the policy of the alternative more or less the one that they should just be allowed to enter the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134108	Of course, the alternative can see a problem in the large flows of refugees, and one of the ways the alternative wants to solve it is to give the European Union greater responsibility. But the alternative does not see that refugees can be kept away, for example. to make them poor. We don't think it's social benefits that get refugees in this country. The refugees themselves say that they are coming to Denmark because we are a democracy because they can be safe here because we have free schools and free hospitals they do not mention anything at all about social benefits. Then, of course, we have signed some UN conventions which say that when people come here and seek asylum, we have to deal with their asylum applications. We cannot escape that, and we do not decide for ourselves how many people come and seek asylum. So we believe that the people who have been granted asylum should receive proper treatment in this country. If they get it, they'll be really good citizens. Many of them come with skills that are demanded, but you just don't send them to where they are sought after. The alternative is that refugees can become a resource for this country, and we must also be decent when we receive them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134215	I would remind you that speaking time must be respected. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134221	Thank you. The debate today really shows that poverty is a relative concept. I think that if someone went to a refugee camp and told us that what decided whether or not you were poor was whether you could afford to go to a children's birthday, whether you could afford to go to a camp, and whether you could afford to send your child to a soccer training in KB, they might have a little difficulty in understanding the poverty debate in Denmark, but leave it now because what Mrs Ulla Sandbæk says is positively wrong. Now I don't know how many children and at what age Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk has, but I have a few myself and can tell you that, for example, with regard to such things as children's birthdays, this is how it is in the lovely country of solidarity that we live in, namely Denmark, there is simply a limit to that which makes the parents themselves how much they spend on a gift, and the limit has been 20 DKK with us. Some time ago it was then set up to fifty, but it is not something that overturns the budget even with people with very small incomes to send the child to a children's birthday. Football? In the vast majority of municipalities you can get social free passes to go to football. The second point raised by the rapporteur was camping school. My son is coming home from camp today, and we have not yet got the bill, because of course it is free, as it is part of the teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134342	Thank you. Is it really so difficult to imagine that one can be so poor that an expense of 20 DKK. Is the entire budget going to be overturned? For those who are so poor, the people we are now subjecting to this bill will become. They won't even be able to afford to feed their children properly. Well, that's in all the hearings we've received. That was also the consequence of the startup aid. We know that today. But if you refuse to look at the facts, there is nothing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134412	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134414	The imagination doesn't go that far. The fantasy does not go as far as to believe that a Danish family will reject a classmate because he does not have a birthday present because the parents cannot pay it. That is certainly not the country I know. And if the alternative knows such a Denmark, where you will be rejected for a birthday, because you do not have a gift for 20 DKK, then I would like to know where it is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134445	It's not like you're being rejected for the birthday. Of course you don't. But imagine the child who comes and doesn't bring a gift. That's the problem for the child who doesn't bring a gift. In fact, in the countries where the refugees come from, you are very, very proud, and that is also why the refugees who come here really want to enter the labour market. They don't want social benefits at all. They want to take care of themselves, and sending a child without a gift is quite unthinkable, so the child just stays at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134515	Then it's mr. Naser Khader for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134520	The majority of refugees coming to Denmark are from Syria, and the history of Syrian refugees does not start in Denmark, neither in Greece nor in Turkey or in the Mediterranean, but in Syria. Does the alternative have an alternative proposal on how to stop the madness in Syria? How do we stop Assad's barrel bombs against civilians, creating refugees, and the madness of the Islamic State? There are 6.5 million internally displaced persons. If we don't protect them, they'll run. Do you have any suggestions on how to stop the madness in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134558	Thank you. One way would be to try to protect the internally displaced people through the UN. Unfortunately, we have tried that in the past, and we have not succeeded in doing so. Another thing, of course, could be to make some kind of Marshall help. But what we are doing in Denmark is for the time being cutting back on development aid, and that is certainly not very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134618	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134620	You can't protect the internally displaced with Marshall's help. You cannot give Islamic State Marshall help to stop the persecution of the internally displaced. What about no-fly zones? What about humanitarian corridors? Will the alternative work for such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134653	Yes, of course. That is what I meant by protecting internally displaced persons through the United Nations, i.e. creating no-fly zones and corridors and protecting them from attacks by the IS with a UN army. That was one part of it. The second part was a Marshall aid because the moment you make people more wealthy in the area, you certainly don't get rebel armies. So it is quite clear that more money would help the situation. You have to do both.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134727	The next short remark is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134730	Thank you. After all, this is an interesting debate, and I sense quite clearly, on Mrs Ulla Sandbæk and the alternative, that one is very generous and that one would very much like to open our borders to more refugees from around the world. So I would very much like to ask Mrs Ulla Sandbæk and the Alternative the very easy question. It should certainly be easy to answer: how many refugees do Mrs Ulla Sandbæk and the Alternative think that we in Denmark can or should accept every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134813	The alternative is that the people who manage to get here without drowning along the way or without dying of starvation along the way, because of all the barriers they put up before they come to Denmark, so those who come here and seek asylum and who are entitled to asylum under international rules must have asylum. And, of course, I cannot quantify it, because I do not know how many people will drown tomorrow or how many will not enter Greece or Macedonia or where they are now trying to penetrate to get here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134846	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134847	Now it is the case that we have a welfare society, and we should like to be able to preserve that for many years to come. It costs a few crowns and ears when Mrs. Hansen needs home help, or when Mr. Jensen needs to be treated in the hospital. That is why we in the Danish People's Party also believe that it is extremely important that we have the means and that we are somehow trying to limit the flow of refugees or immigrants, as is currently the case. I would also like to hear from Mrs Ulla Sandbæk from the Alternative, in relation to the economy in this particular case: since this integration benefit in Mrs Ulla Sandbæk's eyes is too low, how much check should each refugee have?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134934	There are quite simple international rules for this. A refugee must be treated in the same way as the people of the country in which the refugee is resident.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826134946	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one more brief comment. I am now turning off the A. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135000	Thank you. The rapporteur calls today a sad day for democracy. The Left went to elections on a significantly tighter immigration policy, including that we would reduce public services. Today we have a majority behind us. How can it be a sad day for democracy if that is what the majority wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135025	I think it is a sad day for democracy, because we actually have some consultation answers. There are many, many consultation answers from people who really know about this, and all the consultation answers say that what we want to achieve with the bill is neither to stop the influx nor to get the refugees into the labour market. All those answers have not been taken into account at all, and I do not think that is very healthy for democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135050	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135051	The rapporteur then claims that free access to school ^ human rights, which we have in, for example. Denmark is the one that, among other things: makes that so many are targeting Denmark. Five years ago, Denmark and Finland received approximately the same number of asylum seekers, about 4,000. In the last four years of relaxation following the relaxation of the previous government, the number in Denmark has about tripled or quadrupled, while in Finland, due to a continued tight immigration policy, it has actually succeeded in reducing the number of asylum seekers, despite the fact that asylum seekers in Europe as a whole have increased. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135135	We know that Denmark is not really the most attractive country. The refugees would rather go to Germany and they would rather go to Sweden. It is also a little more difficult to get to Finland. Finland is further away from Denmark. It is certainly possible that some will be kept away from Denmark with this bill, but I still do not think that we can live ethically with that proposal. At least I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135157	There will then be no further brief comments on Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. I would like to thank the rapporteur and ask him to do so. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll to come to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826135207	Denmark is an open country, and that is what we in the Liberal Alliance think it should be forward-looking. That is why, of course, we think there should be the possibility that people who want to look for a job in Denmark and can get a contract with a company can come here and work and pay taxes and contribute and stay here if they do not comply with the laws of the country. Denmark must be an open country, and that is why we also believe that it should be possible to bring its spouse here if, moreover, the public is not held up and obeys the laws of the country. There are huge migrations in the world at the moment. It is there because there have not been so many refugees at any time since the Second World War. But it is also because there have not been so many relocations without g that seek the dream of having a better place to live for them and their family. Of course, we fully appreciate the latter. But it is hardly possible for all 7.3 billion people on the planet to live in Denmark. That is why we need specific rules on how people get in. I have said how we want them to be in terms of immigration and family reunification. As far as refugees are concerned, the Liberal Alliance wants to restrict the concept of refugees, in terms of what it is like today. At least in relation to who can get a residence permit in the West. On the other hand, we believe that Denmark should take part in taking on international responsibility for helping more people in the neighbourhood. After all, there is a perfectly understandable desire on the part of people in Syria and in the neighbourhood to flee the Islamic State, which is rapist, child-selling, murderous, and what I know to innocent people. And it is clear that those people are fleeing and have a need for protection or almost a claim to it. That is why we also believe that more needs to be done internationally. As Mrs Schmidt-Nielsens said here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, 95 per cent is. In the near areas, of course, they are already in the vicinity. The question is whether there should be someone you come up here and help, or whether we want to help them closer to where they come from. In the Liberal Alliance, we want the latter, and I think we should be honest and say that this bill here is a dual purpose. Firstly, it aims to ensure that those who come are integrated more quickly. In fact, in the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the size of benefits means something for people's willingness to take a job, and we hope, of course, that the parties we have made this with will enter into a very concrete dialogue on a future cash assistance system. For there we are very open to applying some of the same principles. Secondly, it is of course intended to ensure that there are not so many of them who are moving and not refugees who choose Denmark but choose other countries. I think you can be honest and say that. And I also believe that those who have a real need for protection are not actually so concerned about what kind of service is available when they flee the Islamic State. In fact, I think there are some other things that apply, i.e. if life is at stake. I understand that this proposal and other parts of the immediate action taken by the Liberal Alliance, together with the current government, give an ugly taste in the mouth in some parts of the population. It has certainly been a very popular poster on social media, and I can easily remember what it's like to have that ugly taste in your mouth. Because I was also a member of the Radical Left once. The only problem is that you can't solve the world's problems with bad taste. Well, a bad taste in the mouth doesn't help anything. From our perspective, those who want to close the borders have come up with just as bad a proposal as those who want to open them wide open. We need to find solutions for the world, but until we do so, Denmark must assume its responsibilities by helping more in the neighbourhood, but at the same time also ensure that those who come here are only those who have a real need and have an interest in becoming part of the Danish labour market. After all, we are faced with some huge discussions. We are facing a situation which I understand Andreas Kamm from Danish Refugee Aid also mentions today in Jyllands-Posten that the whole system is breaking down. And it'll collapse if we don't start taking responsibility. It's breaking down. I am actually willing to say that in 15 years' time I do not think there will be any refugee convention unless we do something to help more massively in the neighbourhood. Because we cannot continue to receive as many asylum seekers as we do, for example. Germany and Sweden are currently doing so. Surely no one here would suggest that Denmark should receive a number of asylum seekers who are in line with what they are doing in Sweden or are there? Because then I think we should come forward and put the proposal forward, and then we can discuss it. But I don't think anyone will. And that means that we do not, in fact, disagree that the number matters, and that is why we must ensure that we do much more to help people where they are and, to a lesser extent, to do so here. This about whether lower benefits work or do not work is something on which many of us have had different views. It already started under the Nyrup government, as I remember, with SR, which did the first of those kinds of services. Then you walked away from it again. Then the VK government came and did it, and they also walked away from it. And now you try again. Each time it has been based on a desire for people to integrate better and faster, and there is that desire here too. And, of course, there is the desire to help in the neighbourhoods. As I said, I believe that we will have major discussions on this, and I hope that everyone will be constructive in it, because we are not discussing solutions to the major problem. We may be trying to stop a hole here and here to see how we can ensure that we do not repeat the major integration problems of the past • how we can make sure to help more people in the vicinity in such a Danish context. But we still lack the great discussion where it is not easy to give answers on how to solve these problems. Because this isn't gonna stop once the civil war in Syria is over, hopefully one day. It's not gonna stop. The migration that is now under way continues in the years to come. And we have to deal with that, because there is, of course, a ceiling on how many people can receive in the Western world. Therefore, the Liberal Alliance has helped to conclude this agreement with the government and the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. We also went to the polls that we would do exactly what we have done, and it is always nice to be able to do it after the elections, as has been said to the electorate before the elections that they would do. In any case, no one can accuse us of not being so in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140012	There are some brief comments. The first one is from Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140016	Well, it's nice to meet you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll will acknowledge his radical heritage. I also remember very well when Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll stood on this platform and turned strongly against the proposal to introduce a requirement for self-reliance on citizenship, for that was completely irrelevant, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. But that could be it. And the thing about the taste in your mouth, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll changed his attitude. What I would like to ask is: this great problem, which we can all well see exists, that is, the great problem of many refugees, is being talked about a great deal, and it is very often used as an excuse for not doing anything. What I would therefore like to ask, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, about, is: Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and the Liberal Alliance were actually done to identify a solution to this major problem? Is that just the kind of thing you talk about so that you can avoid a responsibility to solve those problems when they report in the form of people who are knocking on the door? What do you got, sir? Simon Emil Ammitzbøll practically done to solve the problems in the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140127	In fact, we have been some of the few who have been concrete. In fact, we are some of the few who have proposed that Denmark should run camps at a proper level in the neighbourhood. There you can help more people for the same money, yes, you can help more people for less money, but I know that the left wing is apparently gradually, including the Radical Left, more concerned about how much money is being spent. Because the truth is that if we helped people closer to where they came from, co-financed by the Danish side, we have also suggested that we can help more. But it's like, speaking of taste in your mouth, it's better to help 10,000 in Denmark than 20,000 or 30,000 or 80,000 in the neighborhoods, because it gives you a better taste in your mouth when you can see people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140227	I would like to ask two questions. What is envisaged in relation to the financing of these camps? After all, the economy has a role to play, and it is fine to come up with an idea, but we must also have had some ideas about the economy and its financing. The second question, then, is about these camps. What, then, will you do if these countries continue to be insecure, continue to be civil war, or these people continue to be persecuted? Are these camps really going to become such a permanent ghettos, where generation after generation of refugees are going to live? Is that what you imagine? I've heard a lot about these camps, but is it really such a fantastic Salomonic solution? What happens if it is not just temporary protection that people need, but actually permanent protection? Is the Liberal Alliance still going to say that the solution is that they should stay in these camps, that they should live there generation after generation, just as Palestinians have lived in Lebanon, Jordan, etc.? Is this the kind of camp we are going to see, that is, permanent ghettos for refugees in generation after generation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140340	In relation to the economy, we expect that this is something that will be addressed in the context of the restructuring of development aid that I understand the government is planning. This is clearly a relevant priority for the Liberal Alliance in this regard. In relation to the other: I have also been down to see in Jordan and elsewhere some of these permanent, not even camps, but gradually in the nearest towns, at least some of the refugee camps I have visited down there. And it has to be said that it is, of course, about having some camps where people do not perish, but that, on the contrary, these are places where, of course, they also have the opportunity to try to be immigrants elsewhere, in other words, try to be able to do a job elsewhere. It is not the case that we want there to be permanent camps there. But I also have to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe and the Radical Left whether one imagines that in Denmark there should be permanent ghettos, understood in the sense that there are families where one generation after generation is unable to support oneself. That's not a solution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140442	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140445	I would like to be absolutely sure what the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's position on the 1951 UN Refugee Convention is. Does the Liberal Alliance believe that Denmark should withdraw from the UN Refugee Convention? If no, what concrete changes to the UN Convention on Refugees does the Liberal Alliance think are needed or would be sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140516	That is really relevant, because, as has been said, the Refugee Convention dates back to 1951. At that time, the huge migrations that exist today were probably not imagined. I don't think they did. It was not imagined that people traveled this far, Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. But we do not think that Denmark should step out. In fact, we believe that the conventions are part of the solution to the problems of civilisation. But we believe that they must be changed and we believe that Denmark should form part of an alliance with the other European countries which must have an interest in this problem being resolved in a different way. Nor do I assume that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen believes that there can be unlimited immigration or an unlimited number of refugees entering a country. We have 5.6 million inhabitants in Denmark. Nobody imagines we could take 10 million? So we're all agreed on that, I guess. If we say 5 million, I'm sure we'll all agree. If we say one million, maybe we'll still agree. So the question is not whether we want to set a figure or not to set a figure: what should we do to help people in the neighbourhood so that we can still maintain our society while at the same time helping those who need real protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140636	It was neither an answer to whether the Liberal Alliance wants Denmark to withdraw from the UN Refugee Convention, nor to what concrete amendments to the Liberal Alliance Convention want to work for. But let it go. Sir. In his speech, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll spends a lot of time saying that further assistance needs to be provided in the neighbourhoods. I totally agree. 95% of the world's refugees are in the neighbourhood as internally displaced refugees or in neighbouring countries. There is a need for massive support and help. Does that mean the announcements from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that the Liberal Alliance will block the planned billions of cuts in the development aid that are going to the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140721	Paragraph 1, I actually replied that we did not have a proposal to withdraw just so that it is quite clear. Paragraph 2, after all, it is a question of ensuring that it is those whom we cannot help any closer who can still have protection far away, but only them. That is the goal for us. Paragraph 3 in relation to development aid: we support the idea that there should be a lower level of development aid, that is to say 0.7%. of GNP. We've come to the polls on that. But Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is in exactly the same trap as Mrs Zenia Stampe: you believe in the left that the only thing that matters is how much money is being spent. But if we now know that we can help a number more for the same money, indeed for less money, by spending the money wiser, then it is not really a question of whether development aid is 0.7 or 0.8%.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140816	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140821	Thank you. I could understand from the rapporteur's speech that the rapporteur wants a numerical limit, that is, that there must be a numerical limit to how many refugees Denmark can receive. I would like to hear from the rapporteur where this numerical limit should lie and what the rapporteur will think of it, let us say sex slave women who have escaped the Islamic State from an area controlled by them and reach the Danish border and ask for asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826140900	I do not think you can have a precise numerical limit, but I think you can say that the pressure we hear there is at the moment ■ if you listen to, for example. The municipalities are, after all, quite high in relation to what can be done in the Danish society for the present. What to say to that woman? We must say the same as the nine fellow sisters she has, who are not coming to Denmark or Greece today, but who are still being raped and raped, or what I know, by the Islamic State, namely that we will make sure that we help far more people in the neighbourhood, so that not only those who are being helped but also those who have the real problems are being helped. And that's what Enhedslisten's problem is. Enhedslisten has a bad taste in the mouth and plenty of problem designation, but of course never solution suggestions. Now it's lucky that sir. Pelle Dragsted can rejoin and tell: Does Enhedslisten really have a solution, since his party's rapporteur would not tell it from the Parliament's platform before?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141000	Sir. Pelle Dragsted for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141002	I don't have any bad taste in my mouth. I just disagree with the rapporteur on the policy he stands for. The thing is, it's not a either or. We need help in the neighbourhoods, yes, but since the rapporteur himself has just said that he wants to stay in the refugee convention as a member, it is also true that if, for example, he wants to stay in the refugee convention. This woman, whom we use as an example, comes here, so she has a right to protection in Denmark, which we must live up to. And what this discussion is about is what the terms are, we'll offer her when she gets here. So this idea that it should be about a bad taste in the mouth or that it should be about not wanting to solve the problems, I do not understand at all. We must help in the neighbourhood, but we must also take responsibility in a situation where many people are fleeing from some terrible conditions in Syria. I am glad that the rapporteur confirmed that he does not want a numerical limit, because that is what you can understand. It would be convenient if other right-wing rapporteurs could also answer the question, namely where this numerical limit should lie and what should be done when it is exceeded and people who claim asylum come to our borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141114	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141115	I said that we would have liked to have amended the Refugee Convention. I said that anyone who comes and needs protection is hardly so concerned about the issue of benefits in this draft law. I can also say that, as far as I understand, if you want to be on really safe human rights grounds, you must abolish the language bonus. In fact, it will be even more certain that we are completely on human rights grounds. However, I think the woman would prefer there. I don't know how to get her language bonus. The Enhedslisten must then make up for itself what is most important: the money or the rights, but this is probably an indissolubly dilemma. The point is that there was no solution from Mr. Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141207	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141215	Thank you. We have to vote on the so-called 'integration' of the government, so let me just say first that I think it is a mockery to call the benefit something of integration. Because integration is about welcoming into society. Integration is about finding ways and tools for people who have not previously been part of Danish society to become part of the labour market, in the educational world, in leisure time. Integration is about giving people the opportunity to contribute with everything they can because we demand that everyone who can contribute to Danish society and because we expect everyone to want to. Integration is about us considering each other to be equal people, no matter where we come from. But this performance is exactly the opposite. This benefit is a marginalization benefit. This service means that many municipalities are now shouting guard in rifle. They cannot find suitable housing in which refugees can afford to live. So what will be the solution to barracks, isolation from other people? This benefit means that it will be more difficult for refugees and their children to become associated with social life. I don't want that. I think that will cause more problems later on. We should have learned that. People who are offered asylum in Denmark do not come of convenience. People who are offered asylum in Denmark have fled from a war, not to a service. I am really sorry that with this bill the government is feeding its support party another symbol; it is a service that will not promote integration, but only help marginalise and isolate refugees in Danish society. Immigration has been mentioned several times. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party used the floor. But refugees do not migrate to Denmark. They're escaping from their country. The Radical Left is, of course, voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141436	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is rapporteur for the SF, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141455	Now we have dealt with this matter a few times, and it is not surprising that the SF is still voting against this proposal. We do so for a number of reasons. First of all, I have previously called this an exclusion benefit, and I really think it is. It is called an integration benefit, but I will try to explain why it has the completely opposite effect. First of all, this proposal will increase poverty. I have thought this in a small letter rhyme, namely that in future those who come to the country will have to opt out of associations, flying suits and birthdays. And I know that this has already been discussed in the Chamber, and I also heard the Left. That you can be so poor that you can't afford something so basic, that imagination can't go far. But that is the case. This has been the case in the past. It made me think of a Susceptic quote where they sing: "It's a society that doesn't exist in your world." But it does, and it is going to create increased poverty, and I do not believe that that is good for Denmark, and I do not believe that that is good for integration in Denmark. Then there's this stuff about housing. We have heard several mayors, and we have heard several municipalities, including municipalities where there are bourgeois mayors, say that they are mega-pressed because of this housing pressure. Now you want to halve the benefits of refugees, which means that they cannot pay the same rent for housing. I asked the Minister for Integration in consultation whether it was okay for the Minister to place them in vulnerable residential areas or shanty towns, because I thought that could create ghettos. The Minister was against that. But I fear that this will be the consequence, i.e. that you suddenly see people gathered in shanty towns around; that you suddenly see those places where there are already challenges with integration being filled by people that we should help into Danish society. Does it benefit integration? I don't think so. Then there's the language. For SF it is absolutely crucial that when you come to Denmark, you learn the Danish language. But for a lot of those who come to the country, you start on language test one. You will not get the opportunity, unless you pay yourself from a benefit that has been halved, to take language tests two and the courses that are like one. So we also make it harder for people to learn Danish. Is it to benefit integration? I don't think so. Finally, one has also heard the argument that these people were going to work, but can one get out to work if one does not know the Danish language? It may be that you can do it in some Christiansborg thought, but in reality, where company owners need people who know a little about the Danish culture and know a little about the Danish language, I find it very difficult to see this happening. We know, because I was in a town council meeting yesterday in Køge Municipality, trying to establish local collaborations with companies, but it's hard because they're not ready to get out. So we think that also damages integration. So a brief summary: we are voting against, because this is damaging integration in Denmark. We are voting against, because this creates increased poverty. But I have said this before, and it is still an offer to the Minister for Integration: if you would like to have a dialogue with us on how we can help the municipalities to provide housing so that we do not create ghettos; how we can ensure good Danish education and a language effort, and how we can ensure that these people get to work, we would always like to be called up. But this is a step in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141822	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826141839	I would like to thank you for the political debate. We have had a good political debate here today, and I think that today's draft law is a good one, and I also have a clear expectation that it will be a debate that will continue. When the bill is adopted today, we are fulfilling a promise that we made in the election campaign, thereby taking the first step to bring foreign policy back on track. We do so after almost four years of relaxation. Now it's getting tightened up. After all, we can have different political views on the government's proposed solutions to the challenges we face. Everyone's free to do that. We have also heard that in today's debate, in the conciliation process, in the questions put and in the first reading. But you can't be blind to the challenges. So the question is whether you want to act on the challenges that we face. For the government, the answer is not difficult. Action is needed here and now if we are to be able to keep up. We need to do what we can to curb the massive approach of asylum seekers we are looking at in Denmark, and we need to ensure that there is a stronger economic incentive for refugees and other new entrants to Denmark to get to work. I am convinced that the integration service will make it less attractive for people smugglers to choose Denmark, and I am sure that the integration service will bring more people to work. I therefore believe that it is both reasonable and necessary for us to have a principle of income, so we must have stayed in Denmark for a certain period of time before we can receive the highest level of public assistance. This is the right way to go in relation to what we want a Denmark for those who can and a Denmark for those who want it. I am not blind to the fact that the draft law has given rise to a number of critical consultation responses and, of course, also criticism in this Chamber. We may disagree politically, but the fact is that with this draft law, we are broadly leading the benefits back to the level that was in force between 2002 and 2012, and I also think, when you hear the debate here today and earlier, that it is a little like a journey backwards in time. These are exactly the same arguments we hear again. The fact is also that we offer people who are living in Denmark exactly the same conditions as in the past in terms of integration programme, Danish education, schooling for children and education, job opportunities for adults and, of course, medical care for the sick. So we can easily be familiar with our efforts, even if we are now reducing the benefits. What we cannot be familiar with is to let go. This government does not stand by and, with the adoption of this bill, we are taking a good step in the right direction. Then I would just like to challenge one remark which fell from Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, because at one point Mrs Ulla Sandbæk says that she thinks it is a sad day for democracy. I have to say that I find that very, very difficult to understand. I find it very, very difficult to understand how it can be a sad day for democracy that a newly elected government honours a promise they made in the election campaign. In fact, I find that quite the opposite, and I also find it very, very difficult to argue that it is a sad day for democracy when there is a majority in favour of a legislative proposal which nobody can be surprised at coming unless one assumes that Danish democracy has become such that one goes to the polls on one and implements another.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142325	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142328	I'm certainly not surprised by the Minister, unfortunately. That would have been nice. I have a specific question. It goes on this language bonus because I think it's so foolish that you make a 1,500 kroner language bonus. monthly, as around 34-39 per cent. by the refugees will not have access to because they are placed on what is called Danish 1. That's why I was so happy when Mr. Naser Khader in Jyllands-Posten clearly announced that it could not be reasonable either, and I had then expected that Mr. Naser Khader voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendments today. The Conservatives did not, but the Conservatives agreed with the content and said that they would bring the Enhedslisten's proposals into negotiations with the government as soon as possible. That is why I would like to hear how the government reacts to these two amendments from the Enhedslisten, which Mr. Naser Khader and the Conservatives seem to be planning to join us in the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142435	It is, of course, the case that every party has both the right and the opportunity, when it comes to negotiations, to include some proposals. Now I understand that the Conservative People's Party is making a proposal like what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has just described. But that doesn't change the fact that I don't see and the government doesn't immediately see any reason to change it. So as the government and the Left today voted against Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen and the Enhedslisten amendments, it must also be regarded as the fact that we are against.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142520	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142521	What does the Minister think? Will the bill we are debating today create better or worse integration for the majority of the refugee children who come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142538-2	This will clearly lead to better integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142547	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, who has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142548	I should just like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who is saying today that the government is now fulfilling a promise, whether this also applies, as regards the promise made by the current Prime Minister in the election campaign, where he said in a television broadcast, and I quote: you yourself have formulated some poverty limits. You can think of them as anything you want. I'm never going to pursue a policy that brings children below that limit. Does this bill live up to that promise from Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who is now prime minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142621	Yeah, I think it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142622	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142625	So if it turns out that children, as a result of this bill, end up in poverty, will it be the Minister's responsibility to make this right in order to live up to the promise made by the current Prime Minister during the election campaign? I mean, is that still true?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142646	I would first like to say that in my opinion it is not actually a question of determining what poverty is. I think there are many forms of poverty. For example, I do not know whether the rapporteur will hear this; he would like to know where the parents, you might say, do not participate in the surrounding society, do not participate in the Danish daily life. It's for me to see some kind of poverty. So I don't think you can make it up that way. But I can safely say that the aim of this bill is precisely to get more people into the labour market, and I hope that is also an ambition supported by the Radical Left. But when you hear the debate today, and when you hear the Radical Left, you can honestly have some doubts as to what the objective and aim of the Radical Left really is. However, I can say quite clearly that, for the government and for me, the aim is for more people to participate in the ordinary Danish daily life, and I believe that the integration benefit, including the language bonus, is a positive one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142806	Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142809	Thank you. After all, we are all aware that the aim of the government is to get more people into the labour market, and that is what the government has gone to the polls on. But there are many different ways of achieving a goal. Now that all the people who have given explanations about this say that this is not the way to achieve that goal, one might have hoped that the government said that we would then try to go another way. The minister was talking about the integration plan. It turns out that the integration plan is one of the obstacles to achieving that goal, so I would have been very pleased if we said that we would find a different path from this legislative proposal. But the government didn't want that. You could have done that and still lived up to your electoral vows.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142854	Well, I can only say that I disagree with Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. I think this is the best way to solve the challenges we face, and I think we have two very important elements in this bill. One is that we must stop the influx of asylum that we are seeing in Denmark, and then we must ensure that more people enter the labour market. There I believe that with the legislative proposal we are now third-reading and, hopefully, adopting shortly, we are very well on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142931	Mrs Sandbæk for her second comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142933	Thank you. Unfortunately, I believe that all the experience suggests the opposite, but we will not make any progress in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142942	I regard this most of all as a comment, and that is also possible in the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142950	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826142954	Thank you. I heard the Minister confirm before that this integration grant will not, in the Minister's view, send children below the poverty line. The poverty limit formulated by the previous government was the poverty limit promised by the present Prime Minister that no children would fall below the poverty limit we consider to be the starting point. So I would like to ask the Minister: can the Minister promise that that promise will be kept and if children are to be found below that poverty limit, will the Minister correct that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143037	Well, we're not getting any closer than this isn't a bill that's supposed to push people into poverty in any way. This bill is set in the world to 1) stop the influx of asylum to Denmark and 2) to get more people into the labour market, but it is the very best opportunity to increase their income to enter the labour market, to join the surrounding society, to become part of Denmark. That's what this bill is all about. And I would just like the Radical Left to play along the same lines as we do in this area for once, but the Radical Left does not, and the Radical Left does not, because we are politically incredibly divided when it comes to foreign policy in general, but also about how we should deal with the increased influx of asylum to Denmark at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143138	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143141	There is a whole proposal from the previous government on how to get more refugees into work. But the Minister has still not answered the question as to whether the Minister will comply with the very clear promise of the present Prime Minister: there will be no children below the poverty line formulated by the previous government during his reign. I ask the Minister for Integration again: if that is the case, what will the Minister for Integration do? Will that promise be broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143220	So, from bitter experience, when two radicals interpret a text in two different ways, one must always take a tiny bit to comment on it. I can only say that the aim of this bill is clearly that more people should get to work and that the influx of asylum to Denmark must be stopped, or that it should at least make us have fewer asylum seekers for Denmark. I think that is quite clear. That is what we have been doing, and that is what we have been debating for a long time now. I just hope once again that the Radical Left could support an ambition to get more newcomers and also refugees in Denmark to participate in the labour market, and that the Radical Left will eventually come into reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143310	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143312	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration whether she considers that it strengthens integration by placing refugees in these shanty towns or vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143328	No, well, I think the best thing would be for fewer people to live in, for example. ghettos. Because we can see that in the ghetto regions too few people are taking part in the labour market. After all, we have voted in favour of the extension of the powers of the former government to local authorities in order to place refugees, for example. To build shanty towns. This has been done by relaxing the law of plans. We have voted in favour of the previous government's proposal to grant the right to house singles together on occasions precisely to help municipalities to locate the refugees who come there. And we have done so because we could see that the challenges of the municipalities were enormous, and they are still gone because there is an excessive influx of asylum seekers into Denmark. So, no, I don't think it's good to lump refugees together. But we also have to recognise reality, and the reality is that there is such an influx to Denmark at the moment of asylum seekers that the municipalities are on their heels. The municipalities have major problems in housing the many refugees who have come to Denmark, and therefore some alternative options must be taken into account for a period of time. And by the way, we can see that many municipalities have thrown themselves into this struggle with a zeal which makes it possible to do so in many places too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143501	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143503	You say you accept that it happens in some places right now. Would you forward-lookingly present initiatives that will enable municipalities to actually afford to make these homes available? Because what you are hearing is that the mayors are seeing that the integration grant there means that refugees cannot pay for their homes. And will the Minister, when she says that it should be a temporary arrangement, present initiatives in the future that will make it easier for municipalities to find accommodation for refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143538	I would remind you that the Minister is being addressed as the Minister in the Chamber. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143544	It is not easy the first times in Parliament. I just think that should be accepted and respected. With regard to the possibilities offered by the municipalities, I can of course say that exactly the legislative proposal that we have put forward here is a solution, because it must contain the influx of asylum seekers into Denmark. So in time this should make the task easier for the municipalities. At the moment, however, the municipalities find it extremely difficult to get the refugees to come home. I think it is important to note, however, that when we had the start-up aid, refugees could be accommodated. So I guess you can still do that. And in that the startup aid and integration service are at the same level, however, with the addition that it can trigger a language bonus, if you have acquired Danish, I think that the task should be able to solve, although it is difficult, but it is especially because of the number.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143634	Thank you, Minister. No further brief comments have been asked. I shall see if anyone wishes to speak further. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143647	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 56 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143729	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Jesper Petersen, draftsman of the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826143753	Before we vote on the legislative proposal, I think there is a need to give it a few words along the way. First of all, I think it is essential to point out that the argument we have actually had from the Socialists that the housing job scheme was suitable as a temporary tool and there is no longer such a reason for economic policy to have that arrangement has been confirmed during the committee's deliberations, including by the Treasury itself. It has emerged from the tax department's analyses and evaluations that there is no longer such an economic reason to have the scheme, and this has strengthened our conviction that it was a tool that was right to have, while the crisis scratched hardest and there was a need to advance employment, but now that it is actually moving forward in the economy and with employment fortunately, and also in the construction industry, it is no longer necessary to spend 1 billion. kr. to have a housing job scheme. We have also had a rather strange consultation in the course of the committee procedure, in which it actually turned out that it was not possible for the tax minister to respond to how many jobs the housing job scheme would provide. It wasn't for 2015, and it wasn't for the coming period either. It has since been drilled through some written questions that I have asked that it would therefore be 600 jobs in 2015, and also that the level would be even lower in 2016-2017. It therefore strengthens us that this is a very expensive way of creating jobs, and the Minister himself must admit that creating jobs could be done more efficiently than by this tool. But there is also reason when we have now come to the conclusion that the government itself actually recognizes that this is the level at which we are getting a little in the light of what it really was that the government and Prime Minister were talking about the housing job scheme before the elections. For it has been said many times by the Left that the figure of 5,000 by Danish Construction is something where reference has been made to Danish Construction. It wasn't the Left itself who meant it. But I have been able to dig a little bit into it and find out that it actually doesn't add up. The Left has said to the Danes that there would be 5 000 jobs as a result of the housing job scheme, and the previous government has been criticised for the fact that, when the scheme was to be phased out, it would cost 5 000 jobs, not with references to Danish Construction, but in the opinion of the Left. You can find a quote from Lars Løkke Rasmussen during charm trips around the country. There is a time when you are in Kolding, Vejen and Esbjerg, where Lars Løkke Rasmussen says to a weekly newspaper on that edge that the housing job scheme has created over 5,000 jobs around the country and that the Left will reinstate the housing job scheme so that we can get the construction going again and secure thousands of jobs in the construction industry. In other words, what the Left was saying at the time was simply not right. In other words, we have promised the Danes that there would be 5 000 jobs here, we have reproached the previous government for wanting to eliminate 5 000 jobs and must admit today that there are 600 jobs next year, and we have to admit that it is simply wrong what has been said to the Danes. It was not true that it would cost 5 000 jobs, and it is not true that in such a political argument as the tax minister referred to, that it was okay to be such a little big in the battle, when you have argued for your views, and that you must find what presented it in the best light, continue to highlight some figures, not only with reference to Danish Construction, but also with yourself as a sender. And that was simply not true. In this way we have deliberately distorted this debate with the Danes, we have promised them something that simply does not vote, and worst of all it is that we knew it, because the tax minister himself says that we were fully aware that the Ministry of Finance said something else. But yet you have walked around to the Danes on Kolding- og Vejenkanten and elsewhere and said that this was the way it was. I can also draw an example from the tax minister himself, who was also there. He has been diligent in writing discussions in Nordjyske, I know, and one of them has also been about the housing job scheme. There the tax minister says that he, who is now in danger of losing nearly 5,000 jobs that the scheme, also known as the craft allowance, has created since we introduced it. There's nothing about Danish Construction. Karsten Lauritzen, MP, Østergade, Hjørring, writes: 5,000 jobs will be provided by the housing job scheme. But he must now, as tax minister, come crawling and lie down and say that it was not true. The truth has not been told to the citizens, and more than a billion are now being spent. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a regulation, a regulation which, you might say, provides 600 jobs. It is manipulation, it is deliberately distorting and an exaggeration of what was. I understand, if you have the political point of view, that the system should be reinstated, but you have to be honest about what it actually means and should also have been honest in the political debate before the election that the figures for jobs here were quite different from those you said at the time. I hope that the tax minister will step on the platform and stand by the fact that what he himself said and what the Prime Minister said about the loss of 5 000 jobs would result from the fact that the then government phased out the housing job scheme. So we have our argument that it was a system that was right during the worst time of crisis, but that it is no longer the right way to spend 1 billion. kr. On. It can be used better in hospitals, day care centers. Should one finally lighten the tax in ways that benefit all Danes, low-paid Danes? Then it might be better to work if you relieved the tax at the bottom of the same money. We would much prefer to give priority to these funds than to a system which provides very few jobs for a very large amount of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144408	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144411	Thank you. I do not want to interfere in the rapporteur's dialogue with the Minister. You're on your own. But I would just like to say on behalf of the SF that we are in the agreement here, because from next year it will have to have a green aim: energy renovations, climate solutions, etc. That is our reason for joining it. However, I have a very specific factual question for the rapporteur. Now it is a new thing that is gathered, so it might be very good to refresh it. Can the rapporteur remind the Danish Parliament of what the tax relief back in 2012 when we made a tax agreement cost and how many jobs it gave?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144455	No, I can't do that on the exact amount or the exact figures. I am sure that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has them standing and that is why she is asking the question and that she has the order she has planned. However, there were good reasons for making a tax reduction. Now we are at a level where it is in line with many of the countries from which we compete and have to attract investment, but where it is calculated in a way where it cannot be seen exactly what the investment that it then brings will bring. That is why the relief was made back then, a relief which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's own party was also behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144529	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144530	Indeed, it is true that we had to be behind it, and we also made it very clear, and perhaps the rapporteur will remember this from 2012 that it was a compromise. It was definitely not grown in our backyard, but it was a compromise to get other good things through as some benefits for single parents, pensioners, etc. But the reason why I am asking is that the rapporteur is very attentive and very focused on this, with what it costs and how many jobs it provides. I should just like to remind the rapporteur that, as far as I know, the reduction in corporation tax has no documented job effect. I certainly do not think I have been reminded of anything and it cost much more than this proposal. So again I just want to say on behalf of the SF, and I also think I can speak for the alternative, that for us it is really important to spend some money on speeding up the green transition, and it also involves energy renovations of houses etc., just as we provide subsidies for renewable energy, ecology and much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144628	Now it will be a debate on something completely different. However, the schemes serve different purposes. The purpose of the housing job scheme was to create jobs in the short term, to promote some employment. After all, the company tax discussion was about the investment conditions in Denmark. These are two completely different things. I actually understand why the SF would like it to be about something else, because it is now voting for spending money that could have gone to various welfare improvements, on a housing job scheme that provides very few jobs and which next year, with the change that is being made from it, will provide even fewer jobs. So if you're finally spending a lot of millions of dollars doing this for the sake of green conversion, there were many more effective ways to do it, and you wouldn't be able to leave it up to the government to remove various welfare schemes instead. After all, that is what will happen when it comes to financing the scheme under the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144726	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826144747	I am taking the floor for the third reading here today on behalf of the Enhedslisten, because it is the case that, before this third reading, it has come to light that according to the Treasury, there are only just about 600 jobs created under this scheme. That then makes me take the floor. I think it is important in the sense that we are dealing with a system that costs just over 1 billion. kr., but only creates 600 jobs. We are dealing with a scheme where, among the 3.5 million Danes with the lowest incomes, only 8 out of 100 use the deduction, while among the 100,000 richest Danes it is 4 out 10. And we are dealing with a scheme which in 2014 was designed so that it was less than 30 per cent. of the deduction granted for energy improvements. Then that is what you have to ask, and the tax minister was asked about that at second reading, but he would not answer it • why it is so sensible to make such a scheme. But I also think it is relevant, also when the rapporteur for the SF takes the floor, to explain, as well, what the sense of this is from a red-green point of view. The same question can be asked about the alternative. The alternative, after all, operates with that I have heard many times in the election campaign a financial bottom line, a social bottom line and a green bottom line. But what is the economic bottom line that makes sense if you can only create about 600 jobs for over 1 billion? kr.? What kind of social bottom line do you have with this scheme that benefits the wealthiest, financed by all of us? So also the poorest people over the tax ticket? And what kind of green bottom line are we dealing with when it was less than 30 percent? the deduction for energy improvements in 2014? I think that, when this is voted on today, we should be aware that this deduction, this housing job scheme, would never have happened this year if the SF and the alternative had not gone in and helped the Prime Minister with his most important election promise. It is also completely unclear what is going to happen in 2016. What kind of arrangement are we going to see? A green scheme, but in what way? We hope that this will be a green scheme. But it is also relevant in this context to look at how it is financed. Where's the money coming from? Who's gonna pay? Should it be in the case of increases in corporation tax? Should it be by increases in the top tax? I don't think it's gonna be. I could give other examples: a deterioration in the welfare of municipalities, savings in the area of refugees and immigrants, a deterioration in aid for developing countries. These are some of the places where the money can be provided to fund this in 2016. In this respect, I really think it would be nice if the rapporteurs for the Alternative and the SF could explain to us why it is so incredibly wise to conclude this agreement and why we will shortly be voting in favour of such an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145109	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145112	I do not know whether the rapporteur remembers the debate a year ago. After all, there was an SR government, it was in the autumn, and there were budget discussions. In particular, there was a discussion about this family reunification in relation to Syrian refugees or refugees in general, which filled a great deal. Although the rapporteur was not in the Folketing, I am sure he followed that debate very closely. At the same time, and this is not connected at all, there were financial law negotiations and we were, among other things. I and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur will also be involved in the negotiation of 1 billion. kr. home to green conversion, especially ecology. I was really happy about that. That is why I am just wondering whether Enhedslisten had a bad taste in his mouth at that time, that, on the one hand, a financial agreement and a financial agreement on ecology and so on were drawn up. And on the other hand, there was a government that made some very severe deterioration, we thought, and thought, in this area, and about the two things, like that, were connected for the Enhedslisten then.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145224	I think the SF's rapporteur is mixing things up a little. One thing is that we are involved in a financial law context in which a number of things are being carried out that we should not agree with, but which are not part of the financial law negotiations when the financial law negotiations take place at the end of the year. It's a question. Another question is when you have a specific agreement on something where you want to spend money on something. It is then customary to discuss where the money is to come from or how it should be financed. And there's the special thing about this deal that you've been saying that you want something with something green in 2016 and beyond, we don't yet know exactly what it is and what it's going to look like, and you haven't had any discussions about or agreed where the money should come from in that context at all. In the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of improvements, but in this context it is also important to look at how those improvements are to be financed. Because if the money is to come from a financing that we disagree with, then, overall, we cannot support a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145331	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145333	This means that when it comes to the things that Enhedslisten did with the government when SF sat in the government and also when SF was no longer in the government, the SR government would never be involved in anything if one disagreed with corporate tax reductions or restrictions in the field of asylum or anything. There is, of course, only one box, so if you mix it up as much as I think the rapporteur is doing here today, namely that when the SF and the Alternative want to implement our own policy, which is actually about us spending some money on ensuring green conversion, then you cannot, because there is one big box and there are things that you will never support or do not agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145413	I think the SF rapporteur knows that that is not the problem. The problem is that when you make a specific effort for something, you look at what you want to do and where the money should come from. Let us take the housing job scheme as an example here. Now let's say that in 2016 it will be really good. It will be the case that 100 per cent. the deduction will go to energy improvements. This will be seen in 2017 when you look back at how the scheme has progressed in 2016. However, in the context of the 2016 Finance Act, the scheme has been financed by taking funds from development aid. In this connection, could the Enhedslisten be in favour of such an agreement, although we are very pleased that the money is being spent on energy improvements? The answer to that question is no, because we will not take the money from the world's poorest to finance these energy improvements in a green housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145458	Thank you to the rapporteur. I need to know if anyone else wants to speak. Sir. Jens Joel as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145510	In fact, I think we need to dwell a little on this, because it is striking if the tax minister has actually come so far on the ice that he does not even want to defend what is being done here. My colleague, sir. Jesper Petersen, has already explained why the Socialists supported a system that provided jobs at a time when we lacked jobs, but it has also become quite clear that the 5 000 jobs that the current Prime Minister and his fellow party members promised during the election campaign are not what you get out of it. In other words, there was an election campaign which said that if we do not retain the housing job scheme, it would cost 5 000 jobs, but after the election was won, the housing job scheme was permanently reinstated without being able to answer how many jobs there are in it. You simply don't care what you get out of it; it just had to be done. That is what came out of the consultation last week. Now we have got it figured out, and then we can see that it is money out of the window. In fact, the tax minister also said at the consultation that more jobs could have been obtained for less money by doing something else. So we have documented that the Left Government is now deliberately choosing to waste taxpayers' money. You get a very small effect. That's how it costs 1.8 million. kr. per job. So you could have employed relatively many more people for that money, if that was what you wanted at last. But even if taxpayers' money is being wasted, the tax minister is not even able to defend it here in the Parliament, even if we are going to vote on it. It was admitted at the consultation that more jobs could have been obtained for less money. The tax minister thought that was the right way to go. I would just like to know whether the tax minister also thinks it was right at the time of the election to say that you would get 5 000 jobs out of it when you knew that it was not right. So I think that the tax minister should stand up and defend why taxpayers' money is being wasted and why, when you knew the figures already during the election campaign, the Danes were deliberately deceived and why you think we need a system that costs 1.8 million. kr. per jobs, when we could spend the money much better to create much greater improvements also on the workplace side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145749	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145753	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Social Democrats' climate and energy rapporteur has taken the floor on this issue. For we have evaluated the energy savings effort, which is in the Ministry of Climate and Energy, in 2012, and then the Social Democrats had no problem with it. On the contrary, we have had an analysis done, and we will then have to make a new scheme from next month, which is actually twice as big as this one, because the Socialists have backed up the fact that we have to double the effort of 2 billion. kr. It has never been called into question, as is being done now. The number of jobs created by this has never been questioned. On the contrary, the report actually shows that it has probably not exactly been successful with regard to private citizens and so on. What exactly does the housing job scheme have to be analysed in this way in relation to the rapporteur's commitment to the Committee on Climate and Energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145857	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145859	In fact, I believe that both and everything must be thoroughly analysed as a starting point, and I think that is interesting too. I would also like to say that in the election campaign the Left did not promise that it would ensure that the housing job scheme also brought energy improvements. On the contrary, it was said that one should only have a housing job scheme. In fact, I very much agree that the compromise that has now been made with some other parties, SF and the Alternative, makes it a better arrangement, because now, after all, you get something green out of throwing 1.8 million. kr. Out the window per. jobs, but I would very much like to continue to discuss how we can save energy and how we can ensure green conversion. It just has nothing to do with this, where the Left ran around in the election campaign and told people that they did this to create jobs, and then they introduced it before they figured out how many jobs it gave, and now we have found out that it is 600 jobs and not 5,000. So I think one owes an explanation of where one has ended up and why one has done it anyway, when one has to admit oneself that one could have got more jobs for less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145955	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826145957	The housing job scheme is a success, and it is a scheme that very many Danes are happy about and which we of course continue to do. What I am particularly surprised that the rapporteur will not answer is that in a similar scheme under the auspices of the Ministry of Climate and Energy, where the rapporteur himself is a negotiator, it has never been questioned how effective it is for job creation, etc. There the focus has been on the benefits that have been to it. It is fair to question it, but my question will then just be: will the Socialists now also question the energy savings we are making with many of the same tasks, which are perhaps twice as large, and which they themselves have wanted to double when we come to the negotiations in a month's time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150040	I find it very interesting that the rapporteur of the Left says here that the housing job scheme has been a success. That is exactly what I would like us to have the opportunity to ask the tax minister: On what parameters has it been a success? After all, I think that when you have run around in the election campaign it is said that it creates 5,000 jobs, that we lose 5,000 jobs, if we do not have this one, then it sounds as if you think that the success criterion is to create jobs. When you find out that it did not provide 5 000, but 600 jobs, and that it costs 1.8 million. kr. per One has a problem defending one's system. Then we can discuss over in the Ministry of Climate and Energy how we would like to make energy improvements and efficiency improvements, but that's because that's what we're going for, and not jobs, as the tax minister and his prime minister and others said in the election campaign that you would create with the housing job scheme without them having delivered on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150128	There are still two sets of brief comments to be made to this rapporteur. The next one is from Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150132	Well, it's very interesting to have your politics interpreted by other parties. It is not always entirely in line with the way you would do it yourself. The rapporteur probably knows that too. But one of the things that we have put a great deal of emphasis on in the election campaign is also the help we give to families and craftsmen throughout the country. That is why I wanted to hear from the rapporteur whether it is a waste of money to give families and Danes a hand in making everyday life more coherent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150201	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150202	I mean, even if you're a political party, how you want to waste people's money. And one can say that you had the advantage that you also told them in advance. The only problem was that you also said that you get 5,000 jobs out of it. And it turned out it was wrong. In fact, it did not appear after the elections; this was already known before the elections, because there were calculations from the Ministry of Finance and from the Treasury, which blackly and whitely documented that there would be between 1,000 and 1,500. Yet it was decided to say to the Danes: this gives 5,000 jobs. And Mrs Louise Schack Elholm can tell us that there are other advantages, too, but when you travel around with a figure of 5,000 and it turns out that it is 600 and that it costs 1.8 million. kr. per I just think it's a lax business with taxpayers' money. And if you say that's the way you want to help people, that's fair enough, but you just have to stand up here and defend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150255	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150257	I think the rapporteur should have better control of the figures. The figures supplied by the Ministry are labour supply, it is not labour demand. These are two different things. That is why we must at least look at what we actually want to help the Danes with. We have promised the Danes that we will spend money on making it easier to be a Dane, making it easier to get the help they want, rather than making it as difficult as the rapporteur says. I am well aware that the Socialists obviously do not value so much to think about what comes closest to the Danes. Instead, we need to have some very long discussion about one calculation or another. In fact, we believe that it is important to help the Danes, and we also believe that it is important to keep our promises.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150337	On the subject of the supply here: what is documented when you read it is that it has not had an effect, that you have received help for something else, and that it has not provided an additional job offer there. But it is also quite clear that when it has been said about the previous government's proposal, that the government's proposal is not very ambitious, and that what we know for sure is that the government's proposal removes 5 000 jobs, then there is no talk of labour supply. Then we are talking about the fact that what was said about not continuing the housing job scheme means that we are losing 5 000 jobs. That turned out to be a lie, and that's okay. But now we have to defend ourselves in this Chamber that people have been stabbed in a record.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150419	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150422	Thank you very much. I just want to turn to the rapporteur's rhetoric about wasting people's money. Does the rapporteur consider that it is now estimated that 600 people will be able to feed themselves instead of being on public support? Is that a total waste? Is it without any value in the socialist ideology to be able to feed itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150455	No, it has a very, very great value, and that is why we are also doing everything we can to create jobs. Therefore, it is also quite interesting that the tax minister has said that we could have had more jobs for less money if we had done something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150509	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150512	So the rapporteur acknowledges that this is not a waste of money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150520	In fact, it was not the rapporteur who recognised it. In fact, it was the tax minister who recognised that it was a waste of money because more jobs could have been created for less money if something else had been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150531	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus, the Socialists, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150545	It is, of course, a rather strange situation that we are in, so let me ask the rapporteur the question: would it not be easier for the Left to stand on the platform and present some of the arguments than the rapporteur, as a Socialist, even by the Left's tax rapporteur, to be accused of mispresenting the policy of the Left? So does the rapporteur not think it would be easier if the Left were to stand up and defend the system they are putting forward here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150613	At least I think that the entertainment value was relatively high when we were in consultation, and we did not actually get an answer as to why it was such a good idea to waste a lot of money doing something that you knew was stupid; which you had not actually figured out. But you'd do it anyway. And then after that, you find out it was the money out the window. I think we could manage a minister to defend that, but if the Left does not have the courage and the man's heart to defend it today in the Chamber, then we have to find another way of getting answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150639	Does the author wish to speak on the second brief point? No. Then there are no further brief comments to this rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150648	I wasn't going to come up here, but I felt some interest in asking some questions, and now something was just said about the entertainment value in here. In fact, I find it embarrassing that this debate should fill as much as the previous ones, who have been about people and their income, what they should live on and what their children should have to live on when they flee from war. This is christiansborgfnids at the worst, because it is about some who are angry that the SF and the Alternative have made an agreement with Lars Løkke Rasmussen, because you might think that he would have resigned as Prime Minister. Of course he wouldn't; he'd just made a better offer to the Liberal Alliance. Then there is the matter of the Left trying to pretend that this is the ultimate gift to the Danes and that it is going to cure unemployment and overcrowded hospitals etc. etc. I think it is simply embarrassing. I would like to say that we support this agreement because we want to spend 1 billion. kr. on green conversion. We would like to contribute to a small subsidy so that people will have their windows replaced to a greater extent. And yes, it's a lot of money, but we spend a lot of money on a lot of things. We spend billions on support for agriculture, we spend billions on support for renewable energy. We spend a lot of money supporting business in all possible respects, and we spend a lot of money supporting families so that they can have an easier everyday life. Then it's no worse, so this is going to be the ultimate debate. I think that is simply too bad. So we have a lot of other things to take care of. Then I would like to receive some questions about the absolutely scandalous fact that the SF has supported a Left Government in implementing our own policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150849	There appear to be questions for the rapporteur, so the rapporteur will be taken into account in this area. The first to ask a question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150901	It seems to be embarrassing to be debating politics in the Parliamentary Assembly. I do not know whether it is more embarrassing to support a government and a bill here, on which the tax minister said at the conciliation that it is absolutely right that more jobs could have been made cheaper and that it is absolutely right that this arrangement was sensible during a recession, but that nothing else can be said but that it will have less and less effect in such a boom as we are in. And since politics is, of course, about prioritising resources, we are simply of the opinion that we think those resources could have been used better elsewhere. I don't know if it's particularly embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826150948	I think you can discuss anything and everything you want. But the extent of this is, in my opinion, just christiansborg fnids when it's worst. Yeah, we're spending some money on this for green conversion. We would like the job effect to be greater. Well, it's not. At the time of the tax agreement in 2012, it was also said: we need to provide a better framework for companies in order to create Danish jobs and to keep Danish jobs. We spent so much more money on that than we do on this proposal without there being any job effect. That's how you can compare things forever. We support this proposal because it is earmarked for green actions and it is part of our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151031	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151032	Is it correct, in the SF's view, that when the President of the Left, the current Prime Minister, and the current Chancellor of the Left during the election campaign toured and said that it would cost 5,000 jobs if we abolished this scheme, the figure was wrong and that the correct figure, according to the Treasury's own calculations, would rather be around 600?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151102	I don't give a shit. The questioner must take that with the Minister. This has nothing to do with me. I helped abolish the old system because we did not think it was good enough because it was unfocused. We said that if it gets a green sight, we would like to negotiate it. That's what we've done. We will continue the scheme in 2015. It was part of the agreement for us to have a green housing job scheme in 2016 and 2017. The second fingernails must go with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151126	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151131	The rapporteur for the SF says that this is an agreement that contains SF's policy. So I just have to ask: the part of the agreement that concerns 2015, which is the old scheme, is it also SF's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151151	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151156	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151159	At least we've got that straightened out. Maybe it's part of the deal that's not exactly SF's cup of tea. In any case, that is what was discussed earlier between the rapporteur and the Socialist Group. Jesper Petersen, as far as corporate tax is concerned. So we're dealing with an agreement where you've agreed to something that isn't SF's cup of tea to get something else. And my second question is: what is the second one? Perhaps the rapporteur can reveal what the green content will be in the 2016 agreement and where funding for this possible green content will come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151240	I understood the questioner's first question in that way, whether, when making political agreements, we sometimes have to reach a compromise. And yes, sometimes you have to, and this is a result of it, just like so much else is. The rapporteur's party is also aware of this. To the second question: we're being called for negotiations... we have a right of veto... together with the Alternative... to determine more precisely what these green solutions are. It should be clear; there should be no mud. It must be solutions that provide a plus in the account when it comes to energy renovations, environmental measures and climate action. That is what we are being called for negotiations on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151324	The next brief remark is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151327	SF has entered into an agreement with the government, the Alternative, the Danish People's Party and Conservatives to use some reserves to extend the housing job scheme as it is here in 2015 and in 2016 the housing job scheme will be really, really green. On the other hand, no agreement has been reached on where the money will come from. After all, we know the various parties that have concluded this agreement. The Danish People's Party will probably say, as usual, that it is foreign aid or asylum policy that has to pay for it, and the SF and the Alternative will probably say something about a transaction tax or the like. What does Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen imagine is that the bizarre assembly of parties must agree to fund the 1.1 billion? kr., which the housing job scheme costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151416	We'll have to find out. After all, the rapporteur himself is from a party that is part of a coalition which is somewhat mixed up, so the rapporteur also has experience of what it takes to achieve a relative consensus. But I can say, and it is also publicly known, that six months ago the SF proposed that we should create a green housing job scheme, which should be financed by rolling back the corporate tax reliefs, which we think are a little scattered and unfocused. This will both help the business community, namely to those who have to carry it out, and will also contribute to the green transition. That was our financing model. I do not imagine there will be a majority in favour of this, but we must find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151502	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151504	After all, there were not many proposals on how to find 1.1 billion. kr. There was one proposal and, at the same time, a statement that it may not be possible to achieve anything. Are we then in the situation that if the parties that make the Finance Act 2016 do not contain the SF and the Alternative, but some other parties, and if those parties are not enthusiastic about funding a green housing job scheme, it just falls to the ground because the parties that have agreed that they really want to spend the money in 2016 cannot agree on where to find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151543	But that is the way life is sometimes and also in politics, namely that one has to come to an agreement. Now we're gonna make this deal, and then we're gonna find the money. And I am sure that if the Alternative and the SF had not said that we would like to implement our own policy, despite the fact that there is a really ugly Left Prime Minister at the end of the table, he would probably have come to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party and had said: Just as we did in connection with the Speaker of the Danish Parliament, we would like to give you a whim; now you have the chair of the Finance Committee, and we would like to offer you some top tax concessions or something else. So that way you always find solutions; the style is just a little different.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151623	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151627	After all, the proposal we are debating today only concerns 2015 and what we are adopting today is spending 1 billion. kr. I can understand the rapporteur's view that the SF's policy is not. An agreement has been reached which has a number of prerequisites. After all, it presupposes the establishment of a financial law for the coming year; it presupposes agreement among the parties on financing. These are very much some birds on the roof. Well, I can understand what has just happened, there has just been an election, SF has been less successful, but is invited to negotiations and thinks: here we can really play a role in Parliament. The only thing is that it has come out since then that this whole housing job scheme has been served to the voters on the wrong basis. The tax minister was, I think, almost embarrassingly honest when he said: this is not so much about the job effect; it is about the fact that we have made some electoral promises, and we have to honour them. It seems, I think, that the SF and the Alternative have been strapped to a wagon with some loose promises, which may turn out to be something, and that then costs our society 1 billion. kr., which in my opinion could have been invested much wiser. What is the rapporteur's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151757	It is very touching with that concern for my party and for the alternative, but I think we are well aware of what we have done. We would like to spend some money on the green switch-over... I would like to repeat myself... and therefore we would like to create a housing job scheme that will have a green aim. Part of that debate and compromise was that the regime that we opposed and helped to abolish should continue unchanged by 2015. This was not our priority, but it was what it took to get a scheme for 2015 and 2016 that turns green. I have said it many times, and I will say it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151833	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151835	This means that we can also see that 1 billion have been lost this year. kr., which could have been used in our hospitals, in our elderly and in everything else, for a scheme that SF really seems to be bad and which actually had the sole purpose of fulfilling an election promise that the Left had given to the Danes on the basis of completely incorrect information. If there's anything I find embarrassing in this whole case, that's what we've been witnessing. However, I would like to ask a very specific question. Since SF is negotiating the 2016 scheme, where does SF expect to find the funding? In other words, what funding will be accepted? Will we accept funding coming from development aid, will we accept that it is being taken from a room of manoeuvre which should otherwise have been used for welfare, or will we point to new revenue in the form of taxes, or do we think that it is in any way running on the ground? So, how do the parties behind this deal think they're gonna get the ends to meet when they're gonna find the funding for this scheme, which I can even see you're gonna start talking about making even more expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826151941	Well, if the Folketing is interested, I'd like to stand up here and spread about SF's policy and how we can get money in the box. We have many interesting suggestions, including: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Well, I can keep doing it. I actually think that the parties in here are more interested in their own policy than I keep doing, but I'd like to send an e-mail to Mr. Kim. Pelle Dragsted, and then perhaps we can propose some of those things together, even if the rapporteur does not agree with what some of the money is going to be used for. However, we have a great many good proposals, and the rapporteur should have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152034	The next brief remark is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152039	In fact, I would just like to ask Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen whether, in the course of the negotiations, we were informed of what the employment effect would be of the scheme, as it will be both this year and for the next two years, whether there were any figures on the table during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152059	No, because the scheme that we were concerned with together with the Alternative is the scheme for 2016-2017, where we would have a right of veto over how it should be designed in terms of being green. It has to be defined in more detail. When you haven't done it yet, you can't count on the job effect, because it's different, depending on what measures it's supposed to cover under. We helped, together with the rapporteur's present party, to abolish the old system, which is then part of the compromise to make the green system because it was too expensive in relation to the effects it had. It was shooting with a shotgun. You could build a Jacuzzi if that's what you wanted. We don't think it was worth the money. However, we have said a long time ago that it was in the winter that I actually think we were the first to say it, and it was also a debate in this Chamber about the housing job scheme that we now shut it down, but we would like to look at creating a green housing job scheme. So it's been a long time since we've said this. It can't come as a surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152203	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152205	It's good to know. I just find it a little crazy that you go in and help Lars Løkke and the government to honour a very crucial election promise for them without really getting anything special for it, and then you don't even know how many jobs come out of spending this very large amount of money. When you have got it straight, that is to say you simply did not know, I would like to put it as a question No. 2 have to know if you are also aware that it does not give the 2,000 jobs that the SF itself has said it would provide and that SF knew that next year the employment effect would be even less than in 2015 so that with open eyes you went in and said yes to something where the job effect will be even less next year and is very far from the 2,000, as the SF itself has said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152256	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I should like to remind you that the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister in this Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152303	No one can for sure know what the green scheme is going to give in terms of job effect, because it is not defined yet. That is what we need to negotiate. The old system did not give what we wanted out of it in proportion to its cost, and that is why we had abolished it. But Mr. Jesper Petersen came to me and I don't know if it was a statement to reveal what this is really about, because it's all about more than just spending some money to support green conversion. Jesper Petersen said that now we helped the Prime Minister fulfill a promise. We don't care who we help. We want to implement our own policy. This isn't about us suddenly getting a Red Prime Minister. If we hadn't voted for this, then the only question was what the price would be for the Liberal Alliance. Again, it is Christiansborgfnidderfnader that it is all about that we have helped the Prime Minister. No, we are making the political agreements that need to be made in order to achieve our policy as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152401	There are still two questioners to this rapporteur and the next is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152406	May I just start by reminding you that the rapporteur just a moment ago confirmed that what we are voting on here is not the SF's policy. So what we are talking about in this context, the rapporteur for the SF has clearly himself confirmed is not the SF's policy. Then I could understand that there is still an outstanding issue regarding the funding of the scheme which the SF is hoping to get through later on, since it is doing the government a service in carrying through this bill. The rapporteur for the SF mentioned a few examples of how the SF imagined funding could be found. It could be the roll-back of tax concessions, it could be a tax on financial transactions or a tax on pollution. Does the rapporteur for the SF have an expectation that this is something that can be agreed with the Left Government, and if you cannot do so, is the SF ready to drop the agreement for 2016 and 2017, which is in the future somewhere if you cannot find funding in cooperation with the Left Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152504	When we deal with this proposal in the third place today and I stand up here, it is in relation to the whole package. I think I've said that many times. I don't understand why it has to be so difficult or mysterious. A comprehensive package has been made in which the compromise that SF and the Alternative could have our green policy implemented was that the housing job scheme in its then form should be continued in 2015. Then it's no harder. That is what we are dealing with today. But I wouldn't stand by that bill if it weren't because it was part of a single package, namely the green housing job scheme that we're going to have in 2016 and 2017. We have an agreement that we should meet with the other parties and define what this green housing job scheme should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152549	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152550	Congratulations to the SF on having a meeting with the Prime Minister. What I would like to hear is whether you have the expectation that you will also be able to reach agreement on financing, because that is what determines whether SF actually gets anything out of this exercise. And I ask the SF's rapporteur again: are you prepared not to reach an agreement if you cannot find a funding for which SF can be targeted? Or you are prepared to go in and find funding that can be agreed with the Left, for example. to cut development aid or by taking away the room for manoeuvre that would otherwise be spent on welfare? So, you're working with that opportunity on the part of the SF, or is this scheme going to be dead and tormented, regardless of the fact that no one knows what the funding is gonna be like?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152638	No, it is clear that the SF is not going to finance this with deterioration in foreign aid or refugee conditions, or whatever it may be of things that we disagree with. We don't. We are going to the negotiations with some funding proposals, and then we will have to see how far we can go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152659	The last person I have on the list for short remarks right now is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152703	Thank you. In fact, I do not think that SF's rapporteur should feel affected or talk about Christiansborgfnids or anything at all. I did not say a word about the SF in my speech; in fact, I even said that it had become a better arrangement after it had also been greened. But let us now talk about SF's policy, now that the rapporteur has gone up to speak and says that we have a right of veto on it. Then there are just two simple questions: firstly, can one mention one source of funding which one could imagine could be used and where agreement could be reached with the Left? Secondly, do you have any requirements as to how many jobs will be lost?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152745	If I may start with question 2 first: the number of jobs we can first know with a little more security and it is still insecure when the year has passed. But, of course, we hope for as many as we can. And we do not yet know exactly how many it will be, because the system has not been defined. But the Minister of Taxation has an entirely official job to sit and count on in the near future, so we can ask the Minister for that. For us, this is about creating some and zero was about what the corporate tax relief in 2012 gave. At any rate, no one has been able to present me with any figures on what it has given. So the thing about things always dying and tormenting having to give a job effect isn't always true. But what we want to do is to create jobs, especially in those parts of the country where it lags, because there are still places where there is unemployment in construction, etc. And then we want it to be green, yes, not just want it to be green, it was of course a requirement. Otherwise, we wouldn't have made this deal. As far as funding is concerned, I have explained it. I think we need to be a little more creative to find agreement with the Left, but that is always the case when negotiating. I mean, you can't know that until you're in a negotiating room. However, I shall try to find some suggestions which the Left will also take part in. But it is clear that the SF is not going to finance this with savings on foreign aid or other things that we are clearly opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152926	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152928	Okay, so it's settled that you actually don't know anything about how to get this money. That's fair enough. You have won a right of veto which you cannot say when you want to use, because we cannot know how many jobs will come out of it. However, the rapporteur himself falls into the trap when she says that she wants this to create jobs. Is 500 enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826152953	Well, I am sure that we see a lot of jobs being created, but I cannot tell you how many jobs that has to be, because I do not know yet. There is a different job effect depending on whether it is energy renovations, or whether it is charging stations, or whether it is geothermal, or whether it is climate measures or environmental measures. It has different job effects. It's clear that when we're gonna get together this autumn, we're gonna have to define more precisely what these green measures are. It is precisely because there should not be any loopholes where you can suddenly say that you really want to have a more delicious bathroom, even if it does not really have any environmental or climate effects, and where it can still come under the scheme. Of course, we don't want that. It must be able to stand up to the aim that we and the alternative have shown.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826153044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is the tax minister. Depending on how many questioners turn themselves in, I'd like to consider turning off the A. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826153059	Thank you. This is an exciting debate we have here today. I would not have liked to speak as a tax minister, because we have had a long debate over the summer, at first reading and at very good consultation, and we will also have a lot of debate on the need for a new legislative proposal to be put forward in the coming session. However, I understand that this is a great wish that goes so far that social democracy begins to get its own Members to ask questions to their rapporteur and their privateist when they stand on the platform. That's fair enough. I do not really think, on the basis of my eight years here in the Danish Parliament, that this matter immediately justifies going so far, but fair enough, and now social democracy sets a standard which other parties can follow. That is quite all right, and I am very, very happy to answer questions. But I also have to ask myself a tiny bit more seriously and a slightly higher level of debate than what I think is being shown by some parties criticising the housing job scheme here from the parliamentary platform. I have nothing to put on the Enhedslisten. Enhedslisten has been against the housing job scheme all the way through. The Enhedslisten has a completely different policy than the government, than my party, the Left, on how to create growth and employment. You want to hire people in the public sector who just need to grow bigger and bigger, while the private sector needs to get smaller and smaller. We basically do not agree with that, but it is a view that Enhedslisten has had on a permanent basis not only this year, but for decades, and I have respect for that, and I would like to sign for that. We don't agree with the government and Enhedslisten... and I don't think we're gonna agree on this either. However, I must criticise the Social Democracy and also the Social Democratic Members who have been up here on Parliament's platform for criticising an arrangement that they were very enthusiastic about a few years ago. It was a system that was welcomed, a system that was said to create jobs, a system that was said to create growth and employment in the outermost regions of our country, where growth is challenged. Then Social Democracy suddenly changed its mind. Then you thought it was quite awful and didn't make any sense at all. Then we in the Left in the election campaign had the view that we want to reinstate the housing job scheme, because it is basically a sensible arrangement, including in the new economic situation we are in. It is a good arrangement for a number of reasons; it creates jobs and jobs, especially among small master craftsmen, even in those areas where there is not so much growth. These are areas outside the major cities. You just have to open a newspaper, turn on a TV newspaper, and then you will see that when we reported out that we had made an agreement to reinstate the housing job scheme, there were craftsmen who said: this means that I can hire more apprentices; this means that I can hire more people. So the housing job scheme creates growth and employment, especially outside the major cities. It's a priority for this government. It does not seem to be a priority for the Social Democratic Party. Personally, I find that a pity. If we then take the discussion on the consultation in question, it is true that I have come to a conciliation meeting in the Folketing and said that you could choose to spend the money differently. It's always like that. It is, of course, a basic principle of politics that you have some money and that you can choose to spend it differently. But I just have to say to the Social Democratic Party and Mr. Jesper Petersen is perhaps just a friendly parliamentary council that if the policy of the Social Democratic Party is forward-looking, that you only want to be involved in the things that create the maximum employment effect, then I think that you have to fundamentally change your tax policy. I have to point out in this connection that if it was the employment concern alone that was to be the guiding concern for the policy of this government, or indeed the policy of the previous government, then there were a number of things that had to be changed. And I think it is a little funny that the Social Democrats are criticizing the government for initiating initiatives which do not only increase the supply of labour to the greatest possible extent. And I would remind you that the previous government, together with the Enhedslisten, has carried out a number of initiatives which either did not increase or even reduced structural employment. I can give you some examples. I believe that corporate tax is an example that has been mentioned by the SF rapporteur. Another example could be the abolition of the particularly low cash benefits. This was done in the 2012 Finance Act. This change reduces labour supply by 500 to 1 000 people by 2020, while the agreed tax changes included in the 2012 Finance Act are estimated to reduce labour supply by approx. 2,000 people in 2020. We can also take the latest financial agreement for 2015 between the SF, the Radical Left, the Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten. It contained, among other things, the following: a roll-back of the mutual dependent of the cohabiting cash benefit recipients, and overall it is estimated to reduce the supply of work by approx. 1.000 people by 2020 and gross domestic product by 400 million. kr. in 2020. I think it is fair that these things have been carried out. That was the political majority in favour. That is what the then government wanted. Some of the things we were in the left against. But to make employment considerations the only parameter by which the government is governed, I simply think that is fundamentally wrong. The government's background to reintroducing the housing job scheme is that it creates jobs; it reduces undeclared work; it gives a helping hand to families with children who now have the opportunity to help with cleaning or other, and the time that is released they can spend with the children. So it is not the only consideration behind this government's policy which gives the maximum effect on employment. There are also a number of other things, and these are matters that we attach importance to in this government, so I simply have to sweep away the criticism of the housing job scheme that the Social Democrats have made here today. I must also say that when you look at the fact that half a million Danes have taken advantage of this scheme, I simply do not think you can be familiar with saying, as a Social Democrat did here from Parliament's platform, that it is money out of the window. There are half a million Danes who get a helping hand in their daily lives. They get a deduction they wouldn't otherwise have received. It helps them. It's not money out the window.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826153722	I would like to thank the Minister and I have six comments to make. That means we've turned off the "A," but it's a young person like that for 15 minutes, so don't go too far. The first to a brief remark is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826153739	We have just had the Finance Minister at a press conference and tell you that there is very, very little money for the Finance Act for 2016. There's 3 billion. kr. less. This means, of course, that the money spent there must be used carefully, because a penny spent on one purpose cannot be spent on another. That is to say, you have to choose the objectives that you think are most important. I would like to ask the tax minister why it is more important, according to the tax minister, to spend 1.1 billion. kr. for a housing job scheme than to spend 700 million. kr. Why is the housing job scheme more important than securing property owners against land-based increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826153827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826153828	But it is quite true that this is a priority. The Left has promised in the election campaign that we would reinstate the housing job scheme. I think this is new to some, but this government is actually a government that will keep its promise, that is, keep the electoral promises we have made in the election campaign. You could, of course, choose as the Liberal Alliance wants it, and there are other parties that do so, and it may be that you will look at it in the budget negotiations when you have the complete overview of our economy. After all, it is no secret that a bailiff has not been left over in the Ministry of Finance by the previous government. We have chosen to give priority to the housing job scheme. I can fully stand by that. Half a million Danes use the housing job scheme and are happy with it. It is sensible on the basis of a wide range of parameters, not just employment considerations. I would say that if we are to put on the employment spectacles, there is, at least immediately, I would guess, a less effect of labour supply than the housing job scheme. However, there may be good reasons why, as a party, you want to look at the root cause. I understand that the Liberal Alliance does, and of course we are listening to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826153933	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826153935	That is true, as the Minister repeats: there will be little money next year. And there is even less money now because the government has decided to spend 1.1 billion. kr. on the housing job scheme. Then the Minister says: Well, that's because we went to the polls on it. Well, then why would they do that? That is what needs to be answered. Why was it felt in the election campaign that it was more important to secure the housing job scheme than to secure the property owners against increasing ground debt? The Minister will certainly not answer that question, and I would ask him something new: why is it more important to maintain the housing job scheme than to reduce marginal taxation in Denmark? So why is the housing job scheme more important than reducing marginal taxation in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154012	I mean, I think there are different considerations for making different electoral vows. I think there are some who choose, for example. The reason for this is that their constituents are very concerned about it. I believe that the Liberal Alliance has chosen the top tax which, by the way, is something that offers a very large amount of work if one chooses to abolish it as a matter of priority, among other things. Because there is also a part of the electorate of the Liberal Alliance who has pointed this out. We in the Left have chosen the housing job scheme, the craftsman's allowance, because we think it is a good arrangement, which many Danes use and which creates jobs, also in those areas where there is a little longer between houses and which are not a high-growth area like here, where Christiansborg is located in the middle of the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154050	The next brief remark is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154055	Thank you. It's fun to hear the tax minister. He is very puzzled that this case can cause so much debate, because it should be such a small matter. I just remind the tax minister that, as far as I know, it was the only ultimate demand the Prime Minister had for wanting to be prime minister. It can't be that small if you want to put the Prime Minister's dreams on it. I would like to ask if it was right when, among other things, it was true. The Left Minister for Integration, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, said during the election campaign that, in addition to welcoming people and improving people's homes, it also creates 5,000 jobs. I would like to know whether that was a correct statement or a wrong statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154147	I have nothing to do with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has said. I believe that what the Minister is referring to is the figures of Danish Construction. And I have noted, moreover, that after the debate we have had here, Danish Construction still believes that they can fully measure their figures. So that reference is made to those figures, I see no problem at all in that. However, we agree that what we base the draft law, the calculations we have when dealing with the bill, are the figures of the respective ministries, namely the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154218	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154223	Can the Minister of Taxation explain to me why, before the elections, reference was made to the figures of Danish Buildings and now reference is made to some other figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154235	Well, I think I've also referred to the numbers of Danish Builders. And I really think that those who have heard, among other things. Mr. Jens Joel and the Social Democratic tax rapporteur here from Parliament's platform refer to the consultation, should go in and see the consultation, because that is a completely wrong interpretation of things. There is nothing wrong with the references that have been to the Danish Construction figures. These are some calculations that Danish Construction has. It is some calculations that Danish Construction is targeted for, and therefore it is quite all right to refer to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154303	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154308	Thank you very much. I have to say that making this scheme appear as such a socially helping hand to the outermost areas of Denmark is at the limit of being misleading when all figures clearly show that it is a hand for the most wealthy Danes and that it is primarily the skilled craftsmen who benefit from it, not the unskilled workers. However, what I really want to ask the tax minister is that from the legal basis it appears that the scheme is financed by undisposed reserves under the Finance Act for 2015. As far as I understand from the Minister for Finance's proposal, there are no undisposed reserves but, on the contrary, a much larger gap than was expected. So the question is what is actually going to finance the scheme here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154359	In other words, the answers given under ministerial responsibility are of course to believers, and what the bill says is right. And it is in 2015 funded by uncontaminated reserves. For 2016 and 2017, we must find the money in a sensible place on the Finance Act, and I have no reason but to believe it can be done. And I look forward to inviting those parties who would like to participate in the greening of the scheme to debate this autumn so that we can have a legislative proposal put forward here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which means that the scheme does not only exist this year, but also in the next two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154430	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154434	But I have to ask the Minister for Finance what is the relationship for this year. On the other hand, I would like to ask the tax minister about next year, and this is entirely in line with the Liberal Alliance's questions and next year again. There are then no uncontaminated reserves; on the contrary, there must now be money, and that must mean that, and that is more so in relation to the parties who choose to support this scheme • that there is no free round here. Somewhere else needs to be cut in order to afford to make this arrangement. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154506	I would like to repeat that this money has to be found, and I think it is possible to find it in the Finance Act. Some people have said that this is money coming from cuts in the area of foreigners, and I can say very clearly that this is not the case, because the parties that are helping to change our legislation on foreigners and to generate revenue along that path have decided that that money should go to job reform 2 ■ a tax reform that ensures that it is better worth working.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154537	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154543	Thank you. It's nice that the tax minister finally decided that he'd like to share in discussing it today. I really think that, at the beginning of my speech, I expressed what the position of the Social Democratic Party was, namely that it was a good economic policy tool and that it was important to use it in the years when the crisis scratched the most, but it is no longer. There, too, as a politician, we must be mature and put a stop to economic policy when they are no longer needed, even if they are popular. That is certainly our point of view, because then the money can be used better. After all, the whole argument as to why you have a housing job scheme was about jobs and employment. That is the same argument used by the Left. Time and again it has been about creating jobs, and now that we have to recognise that it does not give much longer, it is some other thing. The Ministry of Taxation's own evaluation says that it has a very small effect on undeclared work, and one must now admit that it is very few jobs that it provides at quite a large amount of money. What I really wanted to do up to now I just felt the need to replicate for the things the tax minister said is that it was not right, since the Left, both the prime minister and the tax minister themselves and Mrs Inger Løbberg, who is now the minister, said that it was 5,000 jobs that would be the prize and that there were therefore no references to Danish Construction. The quotes we have read are therefore something you yourself say on behalf of the Left without referring to Danish Construction. So I'm just gonna ask the tax minister to admit that it wasn't correct and that the figure is now 600, not 5,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154724	I think that if you look at who has made assessments of the job effect of the housing job scheme and has reached the figure of 5,000, you see that it is only Danish Construction. I know sir. Jesper Petersen, he is a skilled parliamentarian and quite intelligent, so I think that Mr. Jesper Petersen could safely have figured out that it is the figures of the Danish Building Industry that are being referred to, and I believe that there is absolutely nothing wrong with the references that have been made. Then I just have to say about undeclared work that, as some of the answers show, the black job effect is 300 million. kr., so that's something. That is not entirely unimportant. And I do hope that with the parties behind the new agreement on a new and greener housing job scheme, we can help to ensure that it is more able to crowd out and reduce black work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154813	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154817	I do not imagine that the Left would use so much effort to communicate if they only approached other members of parliament. I assume that when a debate has been written in Northern Jutland, as the tax minister has done, it was not because it was addressed to me, but because it was addressed to the electorate. It is said on behalf of the Left that the housing job scheme will provide 5,000 jobs. And when sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen, now Prime Minister, said so among other things. Here in the Folketing, it was not just the rest of us here who should be able to figure out which organizations would have meant what, without any reference being made to it. But he says with himself as a sender that there are 5 000 jobs that will disappear if you do not extend the housing job scheme. The tax minister cannot make himself say it because he does not want to undermine his own Prime Minister, but all the answers that have been given are clear: it was not true, it was deliberately distorted. So the tax minister just has to confirm that the figure is 600, that is to say it is true that the tax minister has stated that it is 600, and not 5,000, for what it will have of the job effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826154926	It's the job effect, but there's a displacement. Jesper Petersen very well. So both can actually be right. I know, sir. Jesper Petersen does not want to admit. But Danish Construction is on target for their numbers, and they have said as late as a few days ago that they certainly believe that their numbers are correct. So I would recommend Mr. Jesper Petersen to go in clinch with Dansk Byggeri to challenge them in terms of their numbers. It is the case that when we change things, it can mean that some jobs are being lost somewhere, and then some are being created somewhere else. It has just been important to us in the government and in the Left that the jobs created in particular in the sparsely populated areas as a result of the housing job scheme, the craft allowance, can be maintained. That is why we want to restore the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155009	The next short remark is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155019	Thank you. Now the Minister of Taxation also refers to the consultation we had on this matter and in that consultation and I cannot quote it quite literally, but I certainly think that I remember correctly that the Minister of Taxation said that it is quite natural that the regime that was introduced at a time of recession will, of course, have a significantly smaller effect in a time of recession. The tax minister also made it very clear in that consultation that it was the number of Danish Buildings, and you can then have a political discussion and refer to them, but it was not, in this way, some figures that the government would have to measure up to. Now the tax minister stands and says that he understands that Dansk Byggeri still stands by that number and refers to it as if it is a factual basis. This is something a little different from the argument that was, in fact, in the conciliation procedure. So will the Minister of Taxation not confirm what the Minister of Taxation said at the conciliation meeting, namely that this arrangement has, of course, a much smaller effect in the case of the boom than in the case of the recession?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155120	If it is, sir. Jeppe Bruus thinks I should have said in the consultation, that is certainly right. I would recommend that the consultation be re-examined. It is certainly quite entertaining, no, I am not sure it is, but it will certainly be decided that the interpretation which the Social Democratic Party has had of what I should have said as Minister of Taxation is not correct and that the distortion that is being made in this Chamber is not correct. And one must get the impression, at least from the consultation as well as from the debate here today, that the only thing that seems to matter for the economic policy of the Social Democratic Party is to do what increases the supply of labour the most. And that must only be very much welcomed by the Liberal Alliance, for that means, for example, that the Social Democrats are now in favour of lowering the top tax, which really is something that has an effect on the supply of labour. That is not our primary wish in the Left. We want to lighten the tax on work at the bottom first, because it is important for all Danes that it pays better to work. So I think that if you look at the consultation, you will know that part of the scaremongering that Social Democracy is leading towards the housing job scheme is not on a real, factual basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155228	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155235	How we got to top tax and stuff like that, others have to understand. It went a little over my head. But back to the point. I think this shows a little why it can sometimes be difficult at Christiansborg to introduce temporary arrangements, because temporary arrangements tend to have an effect where they are introduced, but then they become popular and then they become difficult to abolish again. And that is exactly what is happening here, namely that we said that it does not have an effect in a boom, and that is why we want to abolish it, even if people are happy with it. Now the Left and the government and the tax minister are saying: Well, the only reason we're holding onto this scheme is that it's popular. Is this a factual basis in relation to everything that that arrangement was put in the way of solving when we had a recession and there was a need to get jobs and jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155335	But that's not true, sir. Jeppe Bruus that the government wants only to reinstate the scheme because it is popular. It is also because it combats undeclared work, minimises undeclared work and because it creates jobs and jobs. It gives a helping hand to a large number of families, which we in the government think should be helped to pay a little less in tax through deductions from the housing job scheme, and I think it is strange that one should hear the Socialist rapporteur here from Parliament's platform say that it is money straight out of the window. I hope that the half a million Danes who use the scheme are at least aware that this is not the case, because that makes their everyday life somewhat easier, so it is not money out of the window.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155411	The next one is sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155423	Thank you for the floor. I'm new in class. I'm sitting down here in the back row, and this bill is the first thing I've followed from start to finish. I went to the first and second and third readings, I have been in consultation, I have read all the articles, I have read all the questions and all the answers given by the Minister. So for me, it's been exciting to follow this process, but also a little disappointing. I am, in fact, a little disappointed by the factual level of the discussions that have been going on over the summer. I think so. We've gone from 5,000 to 600 jobs. All I have been able to read out, and I have really tried to read in all the world's reports about what the effect, the reduction of black work, has been, is that it is rather marginal, less than I actually thought it would be. And then one of the Minister's kronar arguments is that 500,000 Danes are happy to have their money thrown at them. Yes, of course they are. I am not really questioning the Minister's intentions, but the method of which this proposal is an expression. It is simply not very impressive. Now I do not know our Rules of Procedure in detail, but I would actually urge you to withdraw the proposal; I do not think it is very impressive. 1.1 billion kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155529	I think it is an excellent proposal. I have explained this here today, and I believe that it should be taken into account that the housing job scheme can have such broad support in the Folketing as to indicate that it is actually a quite reasonable arrangement. There are parties which, of course, attach importance to employment considerations, but there are also other quite objective considerations. I think, to be honest, that the Socialists are a little saddened that some other parties have chosen to say that they are seeking some influence and that the Social Democrats are not part of this scheme, which was previously thought to be a good idea. I can tell you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, that we have no plans to withdraw the proposal; on the contrary, we will negotiate a new, improved greener housing job scheme and put it in the Parliamentary Chamber, and there we hope and I personally hope that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye is watching the law. Finally, I can say that there is nothing wrong with sitting in the back row. That's where I started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155628	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155632	I have no other brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155637	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155644	If I am going to highlight something good about this debate, it is of course that there is now agreement that only 600 jobs will be created by spending just over a billion kroner this year. But in that light, if I may sum up what the Minister is saying from the platform, then it is probably something like that, yes, it is an inefficient arrangement, it does not create very many jobs, but we have come to promise it in an election campaign, so we are going to implement it. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155722	No, that's not how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155726	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155732	I have also noticed that the tax minister has a slightly more passionate defence of the scheme in this Chamber today than the tax minister had during the consultation here a few weeks ago. The passion has turned up a bit, but it does not change the content of what is said by the Minister of Taxation when the Minister of Taxation recognises that there are incredibly few jobs being created with this, while at the same time it costs over a billion kroner. The Minister of Taxation can certainly confirm that if you had chosen to spend this billion on, for example. More teachers in kindergartens or more teachers in primary schools would have been able to hire many more people for the same money. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155812	I can confirm that if we had followed the line that Enhedslisten wanted and spent the money on hiring people in the public sector, more people would have been employed in the public sector. One might imagine that the employment effect could in fact be less, because if you could hire all these people by the end of the year, then the effect was not until next year. That's the way it is with economics. You have to see things in a wider context, and I can just say as Minister of Taxation that, of course, I am looking at the economy and the supply of employment, but I am planning not only my actions according to what the economists say, but also to other considerations. That is why I am a politician and not an economist.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155856	We have turned on the 'A' because there are only two more too short remarks, and the first of the two is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155902	Thank you. I would like to return to the tax minister's point from earlier on that there is still work to be done to find funding for the scheme for 2016 and 2017. In this context, I would like to know whether the Minister for Taxation could envisage supporting the proposals made by the SF rapporteur. For example: the SF's rapporteur proposed to roll back the corporate tax relief or to introduce a tax on financial transactions, and the last proposal was to introduce a tax on pollution or some other form of green tax. Could it be some of the proposals that could be agreed within the contract circle in relation to finding funding for 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826155948	Of course, we should not rule out anything in advance, but I believe that this must be unlikely in relation to the proposals proposed by Mrs Stine Brix, because these are proposals which the Left has opposed and against which the government is opposed. But you can't rule anything out. I am quite sure that when the circle of parties that have been involved in agreeing the housing job scheme meets to make it greener, we will find a way to improve the scheme in relation to various parameters, and then I am sure that a solution will be found in the Ministry of Finance to finance it. Then I would like to say that I look forward to discussing the scheme further here in the Parliamentary Chamber when, hopefully in the autumn, we will be dealing with another bill on the new, improved housing job scheme. But I do not think it will be with the sources of funding that Mrs Stine Brix has mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160044	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160049	Then we became wiser to conclude that the three proposals are not possible as financing. And we could understand from the SF's rapporteur that cutting development aid and taking the room for manoeuvre that could have been spent on welfare is not an option either. So I would like to hear from the tax minister whether there are any other possible sources of funding that we could bring into play in this context, in order that the scheme can also become something in 2016 and 2017, or whether the reality may not be any closer to it, that the SF and the Alternative have no promise of so much more than a meeting with the prime minister and possibly also the tax minister. It is probably also quite cozy, but that is not what comes out of a green housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160128	What comes out of a green housing job scheme is that there are parties that seriously sit down and cooperate with the government. The Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats did not want that, and that is fair enough. The Radical Left did not want that, and that is fair enough. The SF and the alternative have so desired, and of course some of the wishes they have are met. That is the way it is; it is democracy. And the greening of the housing job scheme has not been a strong wish of my party, but it has been a wish of some of the parties who are adding votes. And I would like to discuss with Enhedslisten how Enhedslisten can vote on government policy, and I think I will do so next week when I meet with Enhedslisten's tax rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund, and I look forward to it and hope that we can find some places where we can work together. But I doubt it's gonna be in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160208	The last to a brief remark is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160217	It is fair enough that there are objectives other than just increasing employment. For example, you want to do something about it. I'd like to help the families of the children with this bill. But this 1.1 billion. kr. One could also have been used to reduce the registration fee. You could have taken approx. 15% of the registration fee. It had also helped the families of children, and it had increased employment more than this bill does. The same objectives would have been achieved, all the very sympathetic objectives of this bill, by lowering the registration fee. That was probably something for which a majority could be found. I am sure that the Danish People's Party would also like to help reduce the registration fee. And above all, it would have been much more liberal than giving this kind of business support to a particular industry, which distorts the economy. Does the Minister of Taxation not agree that all the same objectives would have been achieved, but a greater employment effect would have been achieved and, above all, it would have been much more liberal to reduce registration tax in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160327	I think, in fact, that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen may, of course, be right in the argument put forward. However, I think it is quite liberal and good Left policy that one has a system which displaces undeclared work, which has an employment effect, which is used by half a million Danes, which means a great deal to small master craftsmen, also in the sparsely populated areas, and it is liberal and good Left policy that one chooses to continue with a system that has been successful. It is true that you could have chosen to do other things, but this is what the government has chosen. It is also about the fact that we have made an election promise. It is about the fact that we think the system is a success, and that is why we have made an election promise, and now we have to honour that election promise. Now, in negotiation with the parties behind the new and greener housing job scheme, we are trying to improve the various effects. We do, among other things. with what has already been agreed, namely that the agreement will be a little cheaper in the following financial years. You can have long hypothetical discussions about what else you could have done. I think that what the government has done is wise and I think that there are very, very many Danes who are happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160427	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160431	I believe that registration tax means a great deal in rural areas, where public transport may not be very well functioning and where, in any case, a car is needed to get around. So the aim of doing something good for rural areas would also have been achieved if the registration tax had been reduced. What remains is that some money has been spent in a bad way. You could have used the money in a different way, and you could have achieved all the same sympathetic goals that you think you are doing with this scheme. We could have increased employment and, above all, we could have done something much more liberal than give business support to a particular sector. It will be very, very difficult to deny that in a way that makes sense to some liberal person in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160519	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160522	I think there are a number of liberals and perhaps some who have voted for the Liberal Alliance, who have taken advantage of the system and think it is good. Of course, this can affect their view of it. With regard to the reorganization of registration fees, it is something that we have written in the government base that we are going to look at, and I am looking forward to discussing this further with the Liberal Alliance. You could also have chosen to spend the money on the ground, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen suggested. The same effects would then not have been achieved and no significant improvement in the supply of labour would have been achieved. That's the way it is. Ultimately, these are political priorities. The housing job scheme has been a success, and that is why we in the government want to give priority to its continuation, and we are pleased that there is a broad majority in the Folketing in favour of the scheme continuing. And I think there are very, very many Danes who are happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160606	We thank the Minister. There's no more questioners. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160617	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, ALT, SF and KF), against 49 (S, EL, LA and RV), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160703	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160719	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 100 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160803	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160816	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 49 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160857	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160907	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150826160932	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 6 October 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 12.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
