ParlaMint-DK_20151020120022	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 14 (Proposal for a Parliament decision to abolish the area reservations in the Ring 5 transport corridor. Pelle Dragsted (EL) and Josephine Fock (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 15 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a referendum on the listing of DONG Energy). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Question No. F 4 (What can the Minister say about the consequences of the unemployment benefit reform for the unemployed and for society, and what will the Minister do to ensure adequate funds for a secure and solidarity benefit system?). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From members of the Folketing Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), who were granted leave on 8 October 2015, I have been informed that they wish to postpone the starting date of their leave until 26 October 2015. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL) and Sisse Marie Welling (SF), who were approved as temporary members at the meeting on 8 October 2015 on the occasion of Nikolaj Villumsens's and Pia Olsen Dyhr's leave, are informed that they will only take up their duties as temporary members from 26 October 2015. The Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed John Harpøth as a deputy in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Kaare Graversen. The person concerned is then elected. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that a member of the Folketing, Leif Lahn Jensen, has been appointed as a member of the Labour Council for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Torben Hansen, and that a member of the Folketing, Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, has been appointed as a deputy to the Labour Council instead of a member of the Folketing, Leif Lahn Jensen. Radical Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that Morten Østergaard, a member of the Folketing, has been appointed as a member of the Labour Council instead of Nadeem Farooq, and that a member of the Folketing, Sofie Carsten Nielsen, has been appointed as a deputy to the Labour Council instead of Camilla Hersom for the remainder of the current term of office. The Socialist People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that a member of the Folketing, Karsten Hønge, has been appointed as a member of the Labour Council for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Eigil Andersen. The Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that a member of the Folketing, Jacob Jensen, has been appointed as a member of the Labour Council for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Peter Christensen, and that members of the Folketing, Torsten Schack Pedersen and Søren Gade have been appointed as alternates to the Labour Council for the remainder of the term of office instead of Kim Andersen, who has resigned from the Folketing, and a member of the Folketing, Kristian Jensen, who has been appointed Foreign Minister. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020120333	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020120430	The debate is open. And that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020120450	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here today is not a question of for or against the European Union, but it is a question of security for the Danes. This is about our police cooperation. It is about the fight against paedophiles, against traffickers, burglar gangs, terror and harassment. Criminals need to know that Denmark is not a sanctuary. We must combat cross-border crime effectively, and the police and the prosecution must have better opportunities to investigate and secure evidence. The security of citizens is and remains a matter of social democracy. That is why it does not matter whether a restraining order, for example. against a violent ex-girlfriend, also provides protection in the other EU countries, and it is absolutely crucial for the woman or man who has already been ruined by harassment that the violent ex-husband or ex-girlfriend does not appear on charter holidays in southern Europe. As you know, Europol is the occasion for us to have a referendum right now. The bill transforms the current legal reservation into an optional arrangement, which means that we from Danish teams have decided for ourselves which parts of the EU cooperation on justice and home affairs Denmark should participate in, and which parts Denmark should be outside. The parties to the agreements have chosen out 22 acts, which it has been assessed will be a great advantage for Denmark to be a part of. There is agreement in the agreement that Denmark should not continue to be part of the legislation on asylum and immigration that we are now outside, and that is why I would also call for the myths that the agreement leads to a common immigration policy to cease. On the other hand, the draft law here says a clear and resounding 'yes' to police cooperation, which we know is the focal point for daily arrests and prosecutions of criminals. There is reason to listen when strong organisations such as the Police Union, Save the Children and the Nest, and employers' organisations and employees' organisations unequivocally support both the bill here and a yes on 3 December. A 'yes' means 'yes' to continuing the fight against paedophiles, traffickers, traffickers, terrorists and unsavory thieves, and that is important for us Socialists. When we look at how many times the police look up in the pan-European IT register, the figures speak for themselves: it was 72,000 times last year. Police cooperation is therefore important to be part of for the Danish police. Right now there is a case that you can read about on the cover of Dr.dk, which is about someone in Randers who is accused of paedophilia. 3.696 pictures are the person charged with having taken of children; 116 videos that can be referred to child abuse are what the charge is. These are information that has been made known in particular because of cooperation with the Dutch police. As regards child abuse alone, in 2014 Europol recorded 330 coincidences between suspected perpetrators and recorded recording equipment, and the police were responsible for 25 operations in the Member States where child abusers and their networks were broken up and the perpetrators arrested. Security must also apply to cross-European trade: when a customer or supplier goes bankrupt in another EU country, when the bill is not paid or when claims are to be recovered. In all cases Danish citizens must have at least as good conditions as in other countries in Europe, and Danish companies must be guaranteed fair and equal conditions of competition. Finally, the proposal here will strengthen the security of families. We all know that more and more Danes are getting married and having children across Europe's borders. Unfortunately, this also means divorce cases where children end up between two legal systems. It's not fair to the kids. We must always stand on their side and therefore decisions on parental rights must apply in all EU countries. At the same time, it is crucial that we become part of the European Union's cooperation on child abduction, not for the sake of the European Union, but for the sake of children. When it comes to social dumping, it is crucial that Denmark is included in several of the agreements on which we are voting on 3 December. There is reason to listen when the Danish trade unions clearly point out that it will be a protection against social dumping that Denmark joins, among other things. the bankruptcy regulation, the small claims regulation, the account protection regulation and the Rome II regulation on collective action. If we become part of these schemes, it makes it easier for employees to claim claims, for example. vacation allowances, pensions and overtime payments which a company will not pay, even if labour law says they have to. The LO points out directly that the lack of agreements creates the basis for social dumping. May I not call for the theoretical debates on EU technicalities to be shelved for a while. The time has not come, in our view, for political controversy or conspiratorial accusations of undemocratic ulterior motives. On the other hand, we must stand firm and ensure the safety of the Danes, and that is what the draft law here today is about. At the same time, we note that the government has stated that it will table an amendment addressing the question of a referendum if at any time a majority in the Folketing wishes Denmark to participate in the common European asylum policy, and thus the answer to whether this is the last time we will vote on legal matters, i.e. also a clear no. In those words, we Social Democrats can support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121105	Thank you. There are some questions. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121114	Thank you. Now, of course, the rapporteur has raised the issue of the common asylum and immigration policy, and it is also essential to find out what a common asylum and immigration policy means when this promise has been made of consensus among the yes parties or at least some of the yes parties in relation to that issue. So what is the common EU asylum and immigration policy? For example, is it... a Danish accession to the common redistribution mechanism, which is on the drawing board of the European Commission? In the rapporteur's view, would it involve a referendum if Denmark were to join the single EU re-allocation mechanism for refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121152	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121154	Well, it's not even part of the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121157	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121159	I guess that's an answer you can't use for much. I have to hear the rapporteur: how does the rapporteur define the EU's common asylum and immigration policy? Is the redistribution mechanism e.g. Part of it? The fact is that the government and, to this extent, the Social Democratic Party have said that it is crucial that Denmark remains in the Dublin Convention, but we know that this issue is linked to the accession of the EU's joint redeployment mechanism for refugees, and that is why we have to ask: will there be a referendum before such accession?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121231	Thank you. Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121233	May I not say first of all that it is as clear as it can possibly be in the agreement between the parties responsible for this referendum that common asylum and immigration policy is not included in the vote. We are happy to discuss this another time, but it is not part of the discussion we have in this Chamber today. May I then also say to the rapporteur, who, I think, forgot to hear my speech, that we Socialists have noted that the government has indicated that they will table an amendment addressing the question of a referendum if a majority in the Folketing would at any time wish Denmark to participate in the common European asylum policy. So the answer to the question is again: that is not part of what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121316	Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121324	Thank you for that and also thank you for the answer. But it's the government that wants it. After all, it is a Socialist rapporteur that we have standing on the platform, and I would like to ask whether the lifting of the legal reservation that we have and a yes to the electoral system that the proposal entails will legally mean that a majority in the Folketing can decide, for example, to opt for a common asylum and immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121345	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121347	Well, the Socialists support the legislative comments that I understand the government will make later, which are about a referendum if we are to join a common European immigration and asylum policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121402	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121404	Thank you. And thank you also for listening to the Socialists that they support the Prime Minister's proposals from the opening speech. But my question is about something purely legal: if you opt out of the reservation of law, that is, if the citizens on 3 December say yes to removing the reservation of law and saying yes to an opt-in system, is it not true that it is legally possible for a majority in the Folketing to avoid a referendum on a possible future asylum and immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121436	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121438	May I first say that we do not remove the reservation of law. We are transforming the legal reservation into an opt-in system, and that is also a reservation. So let's just leave it. Those myths, I don't really think we can use so much in this debate. The second part, which I also addressed earlier, is precisely about ensuring in the legislative notes that it is made clear that if asylum and immigration policy are to be part of this, then there must be a referendum. We Social Democrats support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121507	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121512	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur said in his speech that if we abolish the reservation of law and transform it into an opt-in system, Denmark will be able to decide which legal acts we wish to accede to in future. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Denmark to which the rapporteur refers is not, as today, either a five-sixth majority in the Folketing or is it Denmark which is represented by a referendum, namely by the citizens, but that Denmark will be a majority in the European Committee? And you will therefore replace Denmark, which today is represented by a five-sixth majority in the Folketing or by a majority of the population, by a majority in the European Committee, and thus the European Committee can give up sovereignty on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121608	May I not first say that I think it is a good thing that the Liberal Alliance, unlike the Danish People's Party, has understood that we are not abolishing the Danish reservation of law, but are transforming it into an opt-in system, which is also a reservation. It is true, then, that it is clearly described in the agreement and also in the legislative proposal, which we agree with and which we do not agree with. It may well be that there are minor adjustments to different conditions. It is, of course, the case that society around us is constantly evolving, and therefore there may be a need for minor adjustments. There we have a democratic body, the Folketing, which, within the framework that we propose in the legislative proposal, we give the right to do so. These may be minor adjustments within the mandate given here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121656	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121658	Thank you. That was an excellent answer, but it was not quite the answer to what I asked. I asked whether the rapporteur would confirm that if sovereignty is to be given to the European Union today in the area of legal policy, it must either be done by a majority of five sixths here in the Folketing or by a referendum. But after a referendum and after a possible 'yes' vote, it will be the case that a majority of the European Parliament's Committees can give up sovereignty on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121730	This is, of course, described very clearly in the draft law, in which case we will be able to surrender sovereignty. And if the alternative were to be, and the rapporteur must understand that we should call for a referendum every time there is a minimal adjustment, that is correct. However, this is described in detail in the bill, where the Folketing has the opportunity to take decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121751	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121759	Thank you. I am sure my other colleagues will address this with the transformation of the legal reservation. I would just like to look at the rapporteur's view that it would be a significant step forward in the fight against social dumping that we should abolish the legal reservation. I have read the views of the trade union movement, and I am not impressed with them, so I would recommend that the rapporteur think a little and examine things for himself. But my question is this: if we now follow the rapporteur's recommendation, it will mean that the trade union movement can immediately go out and scratch the 30 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Or is the problem that most of these companies do not exist, that they are not registered in the home Member State's registers, or that they have gone bankrupt, without there being as much as a bent penny in the company's capital and therefore no pay claim to recover? If it is as I say, and that is what the trade union movement tells us, then it will not change very much to accede to the bankruptcy regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121901	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020121904	Unlike Mr. Finn Sørensen listens when the LO comes up with such a clear hearing response as they do, where they directly point out that it will be easier with the agreements that we become part of to combat part of the social dumping that unfortunately is going on. Can it be alone? No, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, it can't, and that's why we still have to focus on it in the Danish Parliament. That is why we still need to have a solid political debate at home on how to safeguard ourselves against social dumping. That is why we should not abolish employee cards at construction sites. That is why we must continue to have initiatives adopted here in the Danish Parliament. But the fact is that it will make it easier to recover holiday money, pension and overtime, and that is what the LO points to in their consultation response.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122000	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122001	So now it was the rapporteur who looked it up as a big battle number to join those regulations. It is always a good idea to think independently and listen to the trade union movement. The rapporteur's party should then perhaps have done so for four long years, when we would have liked to have changed the rules on daily allowances. But I guess I can't really get an answer to that. The rapporteur will not deal with reality, and then I have to ask in another way: can the rapporteur confirm that if we adopt the legislative acts that are being proposed, it will turn both ways, and then we in Denmark will have to recognise the demands which, for example, are being made in Denmark. foreign bankruptcy claimants travel towards a Danish company and which may cause Danish wage claims to be brought down on the list because it is some other bankruptcy rules that apply in the other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122046	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122048	Sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten says that you should both listen to the LO and still not do it. In other words, there has been a clear consultation answer in this context, which indicates that this will help to combat social dumping, and I really thought I answered the previous question very clearly, namely whether it can be left alone. No, of course it cannot, so we must continue to focus on it in the Danish Parliament. It is true that when agreements are signed, they are mutually applicable. But it is of course the union movement's assessment that this overall will strengthen Danish employees, and I think there is reason to listen to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122123	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122131	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Bramsen, in her speech to the rapporteur, said that this bill is not a question of for or against the European Union, and I would agree with the rapporteur on that. But at least in this referendum it is a question of more or less the European Union. I also hope that the rapporteur will acknowledge this, because it is the case, firstly, that it is the 22 acts that we then endorse, which means more EU, but secondly, it is also the more fundamental one, and that is what several people have mentioned before me, which is the very basic pretext, and that is the great challenge of this: the democratic deficit that is involved in removing a reservation of law, and thus, in the long term, the Danish people are also prevented from deciding if a majority in this Parliament should have the crazy idea of introducing even more legislation into this area than the 22, for example in the area of asylum and aliens. I would like the rapporteur to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122227	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122229	But may I not reply for the third time to the Danish People's Party that it is simply not true that we are abolishing the Danish legal reservation or removing what is the wording used by the rapporteur. We are transforming it into an opt-in system, which is also a reservation. Then I would say that we Social Democrats are concerned about ensuring the greatest possible security for the Danes, and the tools that are best suited to the best possible means of combating crime, solving cases of paedophile networks, pursuing cross-border burglar gangs and giving Danes greater rights. And there we have chosen out these 22 pieces of legislation, which together give the Danes much greater security, and which strengthens the fight against criminals. And that is the starting point. In relation to the second part of the question of foreign policy, I would like to say that I have answered it twice. I repeat again: foreign policy is not part of what we are discussing today. We are happy to discuss this elsewhere, but it is not part of what we are discussing today. As we have clearly understood, the government will later today table an amendment addressing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122334	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122335	I am grateful for the answer, but the rapporteur must not decide what we are debating here in Parliament. I am aware of a government of the people we have in Denmark, and we are based on the bill which the Minister has kindly submitted. And we just have to say that this bill is about taking sovereignty away from the Danish people. You give a competence to a general simple majority here in the Folketing if it becomes a yes on 3 December. That is why it is the abolition of a reservation. Then the rapporteur tries to make himself festive when it comes to a new definition of what a reservation is. So the rapporteur cannot come here on a most sacred Tuesday afternoon and claim that this is not a reservation that will be removed. It certainly is, and I hope that Mrs Trine Bramsen will recognize that, when one removes one reservation and then makes it something else, it is of course the removal of a reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122425	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122427	May I not repeat quite quietly that we are transforming the existing legal reservation into an opt-in system, and that is therefore also a reservation. So it is not true when the Danish People's Party says again and again that the reservation will be removed. As I said, we are happy to discuss foreign policy, but it's just not a discussion that is covered by this bill. As we understand it, the government will table an amendment stating clearly that a genuine referendum is required if a common European asylum and immigration policy is to be included in this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122507	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122512	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that Denmark is almost sinking into the sea in terms of legal policy if it is the case that we do not follow the rapporteur's position, and these are serious prospects. So what I am thinking is: how have we got into the situation that Denmark can sink into the sea if we do not accept the abolition of the legal reservation? I mean, what did we get into this situation? Another question I have to ask the rapporteur about something that the rapporteur himself raised, namely the current case of paedophilia from Randers, it is clear where, as far as we can understand in the press, it is the case that 23 people from all over the world have been arrested. That is why I just want to know whether the rapporteur knows that all 23 are from EU countries, or whether some from outside the EU area have also been arrested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122610	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122611	Does Denmark sink in the sea if it becomes a no? No, hopefully not, I hope not. In any case, we should not be pushed beyond any railing if it is up to the Socialists. But the question here is, of course, whether we are strengthening security in Denmark, and the position of the Socialists is clear: what can strengthen the Danes' security must of course be used. There are these really solid tools if we want to ensure that we can live safely in Denmark in the future. The other part was this about the paedophilia case. I do not think I should go into the details of the specific investigation that is going on. Let us wait for the final statements of judgment before making ourselves judges of it. However, what I can see, and as I also said in my speech, is that only in the case of child abuse, Europol recorded 330 coincidences between suspected perpetrators and recorded recording equipment in 2014 and there were 25 operations. I think that's worth taking with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122715	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122719	In relation to the latter, the problem is that the rapporteur tries to present it in such a way that there is no international cooperation in combating child pornography. The rapporteur is well aware that there is very effective cooperation which has also helped to find a successful solution in this matter. Now the prime suspect is located in Denmark. Does the rapporteur really believe that if the people are sensible enough to vote against the abolition of the reservation of law, then Germany and the Netherlands and Sweden will not be interested in our being involved in cooperation which will make it possible for the person concerned to be exposed? Does the rapporteur believe that the other countries would be interested in us being such a hamlet for such a person as is at issue in Randers?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122806	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122808	No, fortunately, the Danish police today have good and solid cooperation with the police in other countries, and that is precisely why we are going to this vote. Because, as the rapporteur may be aware, Europol is turning into supranational cooperation, and that is why we are forced to take a position on this if we want to continue to be involved. May I also say that I think it is worth listening to when Norway, which has a different kind of agreement, strongly warns Denmark not to stand on the sidelines of this cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122845	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122856	I thought this was exciting, so Norway as a country warns Denmark strongly against being outside the cooperation. I do not know, but perhaps it is the same articles that Mrs Trine Bramsen has read as I have read, but in it there is a Minister of Justice who confirms that Norway does not have direct access to all the databases. But if you can make it become a strong warning, Norway as a country gives Denmark, then perhaps it is just as violent enough. But it may be that Mrs Trine Bramssen can find the correct reference she has just made. I'd like to follow up on that question, sir. Finn Sørensen came with us just now, and Mrs Trine Bramssen didn't answer. Mrs Bramsen said that it was really important for the fight against social dumping that we should adopt the bankruptcy regulation. I would like to know whether Mrs Trine Bramssen cannot confirm what Mr Bramsen said. Finn Sørensen also asked her to confirm that it can also result in Danish wage claims being moved down the priority list by bankruptcy, because other countries' rules may be different from those of Denmark, and because we have to recognise them. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122954	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020122956	With all due respect to Mrs Pernille Skipper, I would like to say that I think it is worth listening to the LO. The LO has done the math and comes to the conclusion, which is very clear in their consultation answer, that it will strengthen and benefit Danish employees and that it will be an effective means of combating social dumping. It is clear that cooperation is always based on reciprocity, but when the LO clearly supports Denmark becoming part of the schemes that can protect employees, then I think it is worth listening to. The Enhedslisten has a different position, but we Social Democrats believe that we should listen to the LO in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123034	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123036	That was the second time that Mrs Trine Bramsen did not answer the question. I'm gonna try again. I have heard what Mrs Trine Bramsen thinks about the views of the LO. That's fine, I get it. Could Mrs Trine Bramsen not confirm that accession to the act also means that there is a risk that the wage claims of Danish employees may be brought down the list, that is to say that they do not have the same guarantee of receiving their wages if the company goes bankrupt because other countries' rules will apply and have to be recognised here in Denmark? Can Mrs Trine Bramsen confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123116	Well, just because Mrs Pernille Skipper does not agree with the answer does not mean that it is not an answer. What I said, and I repeat, is that, of course, it is always a balance. When you want to be part of a cooperation, it also means that you yourself enter into that cooperation and that there may be some areas where you give yourself a little. But when LO on the bottom line estimates that this is a total plus for Denmark, then we look at it positively. This does not mean, of course, that we ourselves do not engage in cooperation and contribute some things, including perhaps compromises on some things. But the LO overall estimates that this is a significant strengthening of Danish employees. I think that's worth listening to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123156	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123200	Thank you. To be honest, I think it is a nonsense when the rapporteur from the platform says that this discussion about this bill is exclusively about Europol. That is what is at stake here. In other words, it is also a common asylum policy. That's the discussion. I really hope that this is something we can discuss in the Folketing without the rapporteur embarking on all sorts of rhetorical tricks to avoid having this discussion. I think it's bad. Then I would like to say that there is also a rhetorical trick in saying that this is just a question of the legal reservation not being abolished but being transformed into an electoral system. The question then arises: who can then abolish the reservation contained in the electoral system with regard to asylum policy? It may be a majority of the Folketing. The rapporteur must deal in principle with this, because the second is a sausage talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123302	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123303	I do not know where the rapporteur is from, that this is all about Europol alone. I haven't said that as much as once from this platform. On the other hand, there are 22 pieces of legislation on which I, too, very clearly addressed in my speech, on which we are voting. It is therefore a comprehensive police cooperation; it is a security for Danish employees; it is safety for children. May I not just say again about the part about foreign policy, that it is our clear view and understanding that the government will later today table an amendment which makes it very clear that if asylum and immigration policy are to be part of this vote, there will have to be a new vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123350	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123352	Now we'll see what the government brings. I'll look forward to that, but that's not what I'm asking. What I am asking is what the position of the Social Democratic Party is on that. And it may well be that we are now saying that we can promise that nothing will happen in the area of foreigners, but in politics everything is a changeable affair. We also entered the Treaty of Lisbon without a vote. And we can stand here in 4-5 years, when there may then be a majority of the people who can make us have a common asylum policy. That is what the debate is about, that is what we are extremely worried about, and that is where I would like to ask: what is the position of the Social Democrats on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123432	To make it clear, even Mr. Christian Langballe is with us, I would say that the Socialists support the government's position that asylum and immigration policy cannot become part of this agreement until there has been a new referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123448	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123456	Thank you. In connection with this discussion about whether it is something that is being removed or it is a transformation, I would point out to Mrs Trine Bramsen that if you turn something into something else, then you also remove something. It's just to put it in place. What actually tripped me a little was this social dumping, because I have no doubt at all that, in order to pull a 'yes' into the house on 3 December, the Socialists will probably go out and say that this is a miracle cure against everything and therefore obviously against social dumping. I just want to know if Mrs Trine Bramsen, following the lifting of the legal reservation, can guarantee me that we will not see more Eastern European drivers driving around to 60 kroner. per hour on the Danish highways. Then we will simply solve this once and for all, so that those who work in Denmark in horticulture, orchards and with Christmas trees around and drive on the roads, do so on Danish pay and working conditions. Maybe that'll give me a thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123548	Thank you. Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123550	It would be nice to be able to influence the Danish People's Party with the power of thought. What is contained in the LO's consultation answer, which I strongly recommend to be read, because it is very clear in what areas it will strengthen the fight against social dumping, among other things. when it comes to the requirement of holiday money and other wage conditions, that it will create better conditions for Danish employees. Can I then guarantee that there will never be social dumping in Denmark again? No, I certainly cannot, but I can guarantee that we Social Democrats will fight social dumping at any time, and I would then urge the Danish People's Party to look in the direction of the Social Democrats, because it was another government that took initiatives exactly when talking about social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123641	Thank you. Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123643	After all, it should be about the legal reservation and not so much about who has done the most against social dumping. For example: The holiday money is part of the legislation, and what lies in this is whether Mrs Trine Bramsen, if you were to abolish the legal reservation, could indicate whether it would give foreigners working in Denmark Danish wages, because that is the whole prerequisite for giving them Danish holiday money as well. You cannot get Danish holiday money from a contribution paid through a Polish temporary agency. It is, after all, the temporary agency directive that we have to go in and get hold of, and I know that there is little to do with the legal reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123718	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123720	After all, it is a little difficult to have the discussion when the questioner has obviously not read the consultation answer that has come from the LO, where they are just pointing out what specific legislation is involved, which ensures better conditions for employees. I think it is appropriate to point out how we can ensure better protection against social dumping, and the questioner is quite right that this cannot stand alone. This is a debate that we will continue to have in the Danish Parliament. We are happy to cooperate with the Danish People's Party there, but I would therefore urge the questioner to read the hearing answer, which is very strong and good when it comes to social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123759	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123804	If the legal reservation is abolished, it is of course the case that the legislation of other EU countries will have a direct impact on our legislation here in Denmark. I am thinking here of the principle of mutual recognition, in which it is of course the case that in a number of areas the courts of other EU countries will have to apply directly in Denmark without it being possible to test it in a Danish court. Does the rapporteur not think that this is a problem when we know that there are different legal situations around the European Union? We have, for example. Italy, which has serious problems with corruption in the judicial system. We have Romania, which has been sentenced many times by the European Court of Human Rights for failure to perform a fair trial in 2014 alone. We have Hungary, which has repeatedly been criticised by the Council of Europe for political interference in the courts. We have Poland and Greece, which have had cases of torture and degrading treatment of prisoners and prisoners of custody. Is it not a problem that courts in such countries can make decisions that have a direct impact in Denmark without Danish courts being able to test these cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123913	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123914	I would say that now it is not human rights that we have a discussion on whether or not we abolish. It is about having a flexible system in which we cooperate more closely with the other countries when it comes to matters that can strengthen Danish citizens and Danish companies. That's why I don't recognize the scare picture that Enhedslistens is trying to run here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123939	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020123941	I'm not trying to make a scare picture, I'm just trying to discuss the substance of this, because it's cases, for example. on inheritance, divorce and custody. If we take such a thing as custody, there are different rules around the EU countries. There may be different rules as to who should have custody in divorce • fathers are typically disadvantaged in other EU countries. It is just a fact that there is an enormous difference between national legislation in this area. And then I say and ask the rapporteur: is it not a problem that the courts of other countries can make decisions that have direct effect in Denmark without Danish courts being able to test it when there are such great differences between the different legal systems, for example. In relation to family law?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124032	Just when it comes to custody and when it comes to child abductions, which are also part of this, we Socialists are very concerned about the child's best interests and about the fact that we do not see situations like those that, unfortunately, have been many of the last few years when children end up playing ball between different legal systems. There, then, the best interests of the child must be taken as a starting point, and we should not see the kind of incidents that, as I said, have been many of them. That is why I think it is quite right that we should have a common European law in this area, a common European exchange agreement, so that we do not get the children caught between the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124115	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124119	Thank you very much. I understand from the rapporteur that there is no question of abolishing the reservation of law. Let us now set up a scenario in which people will be persuaded and vote yes on 3 December. Would the rapporteur not be so kind as to explain to me how, by a simple majority, the Folketing can surrender sovereignty without going into dispute with Article 20 of the Constitution, since the rapporteur claims that the agreement is not an end to the legal reservation of the people against the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124151	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124154	The proposal here is not contrary to the Constitution. It is, of course, the clear legal assessment that has been made since 2007 in connection with accession to the Treaty of Lisbon. So I am not buying the paragraph that the rapporteur is putting forward here. The legal assessment is that it is not contrary to the Constitution when we put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124223	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124226	I assume that the rapporteur has read the Constitution as well as I have when I signed the Constitution when I became a member of the Parliament. It is therefore quite clear that the transfer of sovereignty can only take place by a majority of five sixths or by a direct decision of the people. I would like an explanation of how the Folketing, by a simple majority, can surrender sovereignty without going into carambola with that very provision of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124256	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124258	As I have said, the Ministry of Justice already considered in 2007 that, in connection with accession to the Treaty of Lisbon, it is possible to carry out a single Article 20 procedure in advance at a time when Denmark is transforming the reservation of law into an opt-in system, and that is exactly what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124319	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124334	On 3 December 2015, the Danes will decide whether we will retain the legal reservation or issue a blank cheque to the jalots so that they can decide in future which parts of the EU's legal, asylum and alien policies Denmark is to agree to. The Japanese are trying to make it look as if the vote is only about Danish membership of Europol, but if the vote is only about Europol, why have the yes parties not submitted an agreement to use only the opt-in system for the EU's legislative act on Europol? The truth is that the 'yes' parties have chosen to use the situation that has arisen around Europol to abolish the Danish legal reservation. With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon in December 2009, the whole of EU cooperation was, as a rule, supranationalised. So it has been clear to the yes-party for a long time that there would be a challenge with regard to Europol. Shifting governments have thus failed to provide Denmark with a parallel agreement on Europol, because they would rather get rid of the legal reservation. However, the vote on 3 December is not about Europol. If the Danes vote no on 3 December, there is a guarantee that Denmark will be able to continue in Europol either through a parallel agreement that we will recommend, or if it is not possible, against expectation, through a limited use of the opt-in system, to opt for the Europol act only. On the other hand, the vote of 3 December is about whether the Danes will vote in favour of surrendering sovereignty to the EU in a no-one knows what is in store for the judicial area in the years to come. All we know is that by a yes, a majority in Christiansborg will have the right to surrender Danish self-determination to the EU without first consulting the people. In other words, with this proposal, the government and the 'yes' parties are trying to delegate powers under Article 20 of the Constitution to the people-to-people authorities in this case, i.e. the EU to an entirely ordinary majority of the Folketing. It is not necessarily an unproblematic interpretation of Article 20 of the Constitution, which was also abandoned in the Maastricht Treaty vote in 1992. A political agreement has been reached between five of the six 'yes' parties on how to interpret the electoral system. It is important to make it clear that this agreement has no legal significance. A yes on 3 December means that a majority in Christiansborg can hand over sovereignty to the European Union, both in the case of the ten acts which have been rejected, in the case of asylum and immigration policy, and in the case of any new EU initiative in the legal field. Moreover, there is no common ground between the yes parties on what the electoral system is to be used for. Three of the parties therefore seem to want Danish support for a common EU asylum and immigration policy already now. And so far we have not been able to get an answer to what is actually in the Prime Minister's promise of a referendum prior to the accession of a common EU asylum and immigration policy. Is Danish adherence to a permanent redistribution mechanism in relation to asylum seekers e.g. to consider as a commitment to a common EU asylum and immigration policy? When this is particularly interesting, it is of course due to the fact that the European Commission has chosen to link continued participation in the Dublin Convention with the support of such a common redistribution mechanism. And since all the 'yes' parties have stated that it is essential for Denmark to participate in the Dublin Convention, what we are doing, moreover, on the basis of a parallel agreement with the EU, one can imagine that the same parties will use a 'yes' vote on 3 December to join Denmark, which the Prime Minister also opened up at the meeting of the European Committee on 23 September. It is well known that the Danish People's Party believes that border controls should be reinstated. With a 'yes' vote on 3 December, the parties behind the agreement will actually have a right of veto over whether or not Denmark should reinstate its border controls. In other words, if the Radical Left does not want to reintroduce border controls, border controls cannot be reinstated. That is just another argument for clearly rejecting the removal of the legal reservation. In the EU, there is no desire to maintain control of the EU's external borders, which was otherwise the prerequisite for the keys to the Danish border being deposited when Denmark joined the Schengen Agreement in 1996 with effect from 2001. In these months, thousands of foreigners travel through Denmark cannot therefore rely on controls at the EU's external borders, because these controls are non-existent, and it is therefore important that we in Denmark should once again be able to control our own borders. The question is quite simple: do you want more or less the European Union? If you want less EU, you vote no, and if you want more EU, you vote yes. And, on the other hand, we are quite sure of getting a lot more of the European Union, because the Detonised Minister for Defence has, after all, put the Danes to a vote on the abolition of the defence reserve in the prospect and the Minister for Finance a vote on joining the euro in the event of a 'yes' vote. The government simply does not understand the incomprehensible message given by the Danes in the European Parliament elections last year that the Danes want less EU. For the 'yes' parties, it is just a matter of getting closer to the core of the European Union, which we others seem to be waning. So in short: If Denmark and the Danes are to be sure in future to be able to decide for themselves which foreigners will be allowed to come to Denmark, and to be able to decide for themselves whether Denmark should reinstate border controls, then we have to vote no on 3 December. And for the same reason, the Danish People's Party does not recommend the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124910	Thank you. Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020124918	Thank you for that, President. After all, the rapporteur mentions both the defence clause, the euro reservation, the asylum policy and a lot of other things that are not, this bill and thus the forthcoming referendum concern. I can understand that, because it helps to muddle and confuse the debate and to make it deal with something else. After all, there is no rightful person who does not think that Denmark should be part of the common police cooperation. Then the rapporteur says that the government is suggesting that this is only about police cooperation and about Europol. No, certainly not. And if the rapporteur had followed up a little, he would have found that this is just 22 legislative acts. I understand from the rapporteur that we want to be in Europol, but what about the remaining ones? What about these 22 pieces of legislation? What kind of people you don't want to be in?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125010	The Danish People's Party has clearly said that we want Denmark to continue as a member of Europol. You can do that in two ways. This can be done either by using a limited system of options or by making a parallel agreement. And what we have recommended to the government in fact changing governments is to seek a parallel agreement that Denmark continues in Europol. Changing governments have known for many years that there is this need, but nothing has been done. You've been sitting on your hands. And that is what has been done because it has wanted to use this situation to bring about a dispute with the rule of law. I would just like to say that I think this is unreasonable because we are trying to take the Danes hostage in a debate which could have long since been concluded. If you wanted to be a member of Europol, you could have started a parallel agreement a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125102	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125103	Now I think the rapporteur knows that we cannot negotiate a parallel agreement on a complex of agreements that does not yet exist. Well, you can't. That is why the negotiations have not been opened. I didn't really get an answer to my question at all. That is why I am making it even more simple, so listen carefully: what is one or more of the 22 legal acts that I assume the rapporteur knows before the rapporteur stands up and argues against those that the Danish People's Party cannot endorse? Are these the ones that are about cybercrime? Are these the ones that are about child pornography? Are they the ones that are about bankruptcy? What kind of people you don't want to be part of?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125146	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125148	In short, that is the 21 out of the 22, and it is partly because the European Union is in touch with something quite fundamental, for example. the question of what penalties should be in Denmark. It is therefore absolutely fundamental that it is the Danish Parliament that sets the penalties. But there are some of these regulations that lay down them. And I think it is a really bad idea for us to go in and allow the European Union to take over responsibility in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125216	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125221	After all, the LO has given a very comprehensive response to the legislative proposal we are debating in this Chamber today and points out that the agreement will be a massive boost in the fight against social dumping. Can the rapporteur explain why the Danish People's Party does not listen to the LO when they say that this is a useful tool? Can the rapporteur explain why the Danish People's Party will not be involved in securing the necessary initiatives to combat social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125257	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125259	I think that we in the Danish People's Party have been sympathetic to this, and we ourselves have made some suggestions as to how to do it. Sir. Finn Sørensen, when Mrs Trine Bramsen was up here, told Mrs Trine Bramsen how it is. Well, I'd say it would surprise me more if the LO suddenly went out and pointed out that you had to say no. For it is quite classic that the LO and the DA recommend that we be closer to this waning core of the European Union. But that does not necessarily mean that it is the right thing to do. Now I am not sure about Mrs Trine Bramsen's party, but other parties are of the opinion that sometimes what the LO says is true, and at other times it is thought to be wrong. And in this case, I just have to say that the recommendation that has been made by the LO cannot be endorsed by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125347	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125349	So it has to be understood that what the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is standing on the platform and saying right now is that the LO, which represents employees, is simply not right when they point out that several of these acts will make it easier to strengthen Danish employees. Is this how you should understand the Danish People's Party's rapporteur from the platform here in the Danish Parliament right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125413	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125415	I think it must be understood by the rapporteur that this is a more nuanced picture than what Mrs Trine Bramsen is trying to do. Of course, there may be elements that go in one direction, but there are indeed also elements that go in the other direction, and this is not just a question of combating social dumping. After all, this is also a question of whether, as a Dane, one can be confident that the yes parties can manage a mandate to be allowed to surrender sovereignty on a non-specific scale in the future. I would not recommend that the Danes have confidence in that. On the contrary. I think that the record of the last 20 to 30 years that the jalots have in this area clearly indicates that you should be careful.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125456	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Løkkegaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125502	Thank you. I take note of the fact that the Danish People's Party is, after all, advocating a parallel agreement as an alternative to what is going on or could be done by a yes. Now it is not something the Danish police want. The Danish police are very interested in a yes if anyone had any doubts about it and is of course also a little afraid of parallel agreements, because it involves different things, among other things. that it will be a worse solution and that, if you get into any negotiation at all, it will take a much longer time. My question to the rapporteur is very simple: can the rapporteur confirm that at best there will be 5 and probably somewhere between 5 and 10 years before we have a parallel agreement? If so, what will the Danish police do in the meantime?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125541	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125543	No, I certainly can't confirm that. If sir... Morten Løkkegaard had read the extensive annexation material that has been sent to Parliament in connection with the examination of this bill, Mr. Morten Løkkegaard could see that no one actually knows how long it will take to have a parallel agreement because Denmark has not applied for a parallel agreement after the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force. So that's what Mr. Morten Løkkegaard comes here, is conjecture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125611	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125613	Giving and conjecture, if you look at the figures available and the agreements reached, you can see that the average is 5-6 years old and that the Norwegians, for example. in connection with the arrest warrant now in the ninth year has not led the other countries to ratify it. So it's not just something that's caught out of the air. The rapporteur has to say that the reality is that, on average, between 5 and 10 years have passed before they have agreed on it. So I have to repeat my question: is it not a problem for the Danish police if one should wait for the parallel agreement to be concluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125649	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125651	Well, it is Morten Løkkegaard's side, because the fact is that Denmark has not applied for a parallel agreement after the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force and a new procedure has been introduced for parallel agreements. What you can know is that, as far as I remember, there was in the material about Norway that it took about 11⁄2 to 2 years before Norway got a parallel agreement. But now it is the case that Denmark is actually a member of the European Union, so can it not go even faster? Besides, this problem of time is not a problem that we have created. It is the government that has stopped the technical negotiations to establish a parallel agreement on Europol. It is not the Danish People's Party that we have recommended the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125733	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125739	I am still waiting away for an answer to the question that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen asked. What are the legal acts of those who are presented here, which the Danish People's Party opposes? Can't we get a full, precise answer to that? In fact, there is one thing that has puzzled me greatly in the arguments of the Danish People's Party. There is a lot going on that it cannot be expected that the parties will not cheat us on asylum cooperation and so on. Listen to this: the fact is that the Socialists and the Left have sworn to each other that we will not be involved in this cooperation. They have done so because they are very much afraid of the Danish People's Party. Nothing will happen in that area. I can guarantee that as long as S and V keep each other in check. So the Danish People's Party should be happy that in some way you have had the influence on other parties here in the Danish Parliament that nothing happens in this area unfortunately, we actually think.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125847	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125848	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen obviously does not have great ambitions on behalf of his own party, nor on behalf of the Radical Left or the Alternative, so Mr. Well, Holger K. Nielsen himself is a mess. I do not trust the things that the Social Democrats and the Left bring to the European Union. I do not think there is any reason for that. And in relation to the number of acts which the Danish People's Party wishes to endorse, I have answered Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. Holger K. Nielsen's fault. It is the case that we believe that it is crucial that Denmark joins Europol, and that is the legal act that for us is the key element. Whether it be with a parallel agreement, what we hope, or in the form of using the opt-in system to a limited extent, we must find out, but the starting point is a parallel agreement on Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125935	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020125937	Well, we get that. But there are 22 others... what do you have against them? After all, it's about concrete improvements for Danish citizens and Danish companies... Dansk Folkeparti is against it? We still have to get the answer to that. And I would still like to comment on the fact that S and V are so keeping each other at bay in this area. In fact, they are holding each other in an iron grip, which, in my opinion, is a far, far stronger safeguard against us going into anything than a referendum. But that is a completely different discussion. I do not understand why the Danish People's Party is so afraid that S and V will smuggle us with it, because I can guarantee that they will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130024	The rapporteur, please,
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130028	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. The fact that we cannot get a clear answer from the Social Democrats and the Left about what this common EU asylum and immigration policy is for a size. For example, is it... the redistribution mechanism? Can you, for example, do it? Will the redistribution mechanism be applied to asylum seekers without a referendum? I have tried again and again to get an answer to that question, and I cannot get it, and that is because the fact is that at that meeting of the Committee on European Affairs on 23 September the Prime Minister opened up the possibility of accession to it. I believe that this would be a betrayal of the people who vote yes, in confidence that Denmark will not accede to a common asylum and immigration policy because they cannot count on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130110	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130114	Thank you. I think that the Danish People's Party is running something off the hook in this debate. There is talk in very broad terms that one is opposed to there being more EU. That is a point of view which I have a great deal of sympathy with. But the Danish People's Party must also be able to answer what it is actually about this vote, what it is about these acts that we are voting against. I have now heard the rapporteur say twice that we are opposed to everything except Europol. So let me take one example. There is an act here about that if a woman has a violent ex-girlfriend who has been granted a restraining order, she can take it to another country if she moves away from Denmark, for example moving to Germany. What does the Danish People's Party have against this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130203	I have no objection to a woman taking a restraining order to another country, but I am simply saying that it is a very, very great price to pay for giving up control of Denmark's borders and for giving a mandate to the Folketing, so to say that a chance majority of the parliament can give up sovereignty under Article 20 of the Constitution. There is, of course, a reason why in the Constitution we have very strict conditions for the surrender of sovereignty and that there should normally be a five-sixth majority in favour or a referendum. But that is what the Japanese really are blowing loudly and well by trying to get the people to delegate that power to a random majority of the people. That's what I think when you should be extremely careful about going out in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130250	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130253	Now I think there are changing explanations. I have now heard the rapporteur say twice that he is opposed to all acts except Europol. Now the rapporteur says that he has no objection, for example, to taking a restraining order with another country. It's so okay now. There are also other legal acts that we choose, such as the fact that Danish companies are able to recover claims from companies in other countries more easily. For example, if there is a bankruptcy, you can get your money, even if the company is located in Germany. I can't believe you can be against that either. So with regard to the specific things we are going to vote on, I think that the Danish People's Party has a very, very difficult time explaining what the problem is really with them, that is, what we are voting on on on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130330	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130332	Sir. After all, Rasmus Jarlov puts up a strawman who then shoots down, and that's easy enough. The fact is that, as far as the bankruptcy regulation is concerned, it is easy to pursue such an activity abroad, even if you are not a member of this legislation. There you just have to have a civil law action to do so instead of being able to apply this regulation. The same is true of this restraining order. It can also be obtained abroad if it is the case that you need it. So that is not in itself, in my best opinion, enough argument to give sovereignty to the European Union in this and a series of other areas, as this bill expresses.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130412	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Løkkegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130437	Thank you, President. After all, it is with great pleasure that, as a newly elected member of Parliament, I am standing here today on the platform, not only because it is my first rapporteur's speech, but also because this draft law that we are going to be considering today is very close to my heart. After all, I and we in the Left are in favour of a healthy and sensible relationship between Denmark and Europe, and the bill here reflects this very fact. It is a bill that allows Danes to choose security rather than insecurity, cooperation rather than isolation and, last but not least, to make it more difficult for cross-border criminals rather than easier. The draft law allows Denmark to adapt to the world as it develops, and in this case to transform the current legal reservation, which was created in a completely different time, into an opt-in system. There are very many good reasons why Denmark should opt for such an opt-in scheme. Such a scheme is popularly said to be a tag self-tablet. Simply put, we can be in what we want and stand outside of what we don't want. Without the electoral system, which was created at the time, by the way, after fierce and skilful negotiations, we did not have this right at all, this key to an otherwise locked door. The electoral system contributes to Denmark being consulted during negotiations on the legislative acts in Denmark's own interest, and if we want to wait to deal with the result, until after EU legislation is finally formulated, we can also do so. As I said, the parties behind the political agreement on the electoral system want us to ensure through the scheme that it becomes more difficult to be a criminal, safer to be a citizen, easier to be a company and an employee in Denmark. That is why, in addition to Europol cooperation, the parties to the agreement have chosen 22 existing acts, which we are now outside because of the legal reservation, as well as four areas on which we have an intergovernmental agreement. As I said, there are a number of good reasons why Denmark should move to an opt-in system. The most important thing is that Denmark has been mentioned several times already because of the legal reservation is on the threshold of getting out of Europol cooperation, and this is, of course, a really, really bad idea. I can't let that happen. Europol is an essential tool for the Danish police in combating cross-border crime. Nearly 200 times a day, the police use the important database where experiences gather, and nine out of ten times these searches even paw. So it's a big help. Without Europol, the police would lose the opportunity to participate in investigative units, and we would not be in the leadership of Europol and have an influence on priorities, for example. with regard to biker crime. In short, police cooperation is a unique success. I also think I can tell from many of the rapporteurs who have been up already, including from people who do not agree with this, and that is why, of course, it is the greatest wish of the police to continue. Only through the electoral system can Denmark continue to be a complete part of the new Europol with immediate effect. However, it is not only membership of Europol that can contribute to the fight against cross-border crime. Therefore, Denmark must also take part in EU legislation on the fight against cybercriminals, traffickers and the backers of child pornography. This is done by joining the other 22 acts. As I said, the electoral system contributes to obtaining the best of both worlds, because we can also say no to acts that we do not want to be included in, as has already been mentioned, the area of asylum and immigration. Here the Left and the government do not want to be involved. Danish foreign policy must of course be determined in Denmark. In this connection, of course, I should also like to point out that the Prime Minister has, of course, given the much-discussed guarantee in connection with his opening speech and that later there will be an amendment from the government to have it written into the law. When it comes to the security of the Danes and the common European police cooperation, it is crucial that a broad majority backs up, and I would also like to sign up to the parties to the agreements for the support that exists. Only in this way can we show the Danes that it is important to have a clear 'yes' vote in the referendum on 3 December, and that is why, of course, the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130830	Thank you. Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130840	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether the repeal, or rather the transformation of the reservation of law and a yes to the electoral system in such a way would legally mean that a majority in the Folketing could opt for acts in the field of civil law, for example, and now I have deliberately abandoned saying asylum and immigration policy, and that is not really because I do not think I would hear the answer to that. In other words, can a majority in the Folketing opt for areas other than the 22 acts, if one converts the act not repealing, but converts the reservation of the law into an electoral system? Is that legally possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130921	Here you go, sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020130923	It is clear from the agreement what legislation we want to include here, and that also applies to civil law. So in principle, yes. But it is, of course, a matter of choosing to say here that these 22 acts are involved in this legislative proposal and in this referendum. So in principle, yes, but that is not what we are talking about here. What is at issue here is the 22 acts that the Danes have to take a position on, and again I have to say that we have not been told much from the Danish People's Party about what they are actually opposed to. It would be liberating for the debate to be able to take a position on what actually exists, rather than botanising everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131000	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen for an additional comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131005	Thank you. And thank you for the fact that in principle it is right that a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly should be able to opt for all other acts in the field of JHA, because that is what this is all about, and I hear a very clear 'yes' to that. So may I not just say that when you miss a clear answer from the Danish People's Party, it must be because you have not heard it. For I have heard loudly and loudly that we are against all 21 others. We think that police cooperation is very good, but it is possible to do so in other ways, and that is the position of the Danish People's Party. But we're against the 21 others. But thank you for the clear answer about the legal profession in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131047	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131049	I can only add that what we are voting on is 22 pieces of legislation that can be read. And, by the way, I cannot understand the calculation of the 21, because that is Europol plus 22 acts. So it's just to clear it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131103	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131106	Thank you. I have to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that a "yes' on 3 December will have given us a mandate to allow Denmark to join the EU's redistribution mechanism of asylum seekers without a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131131	It's once again theorizing about something you don't know about yet. So, as far as I understand, the negotiations on a redistribution mechanism are not at all on the wall yet. So that is a very theoretical question. But let us assume that we agreed on a redistribution mechanism that some are talking about at the moment. Then, of course, according to the guarantee given, it would require a referendum if it were to appear, as the Danish People's Party imagines.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131200	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131203	That's interesting, because that's the kind of thing that's gonna sign into the history books, when there's probably gonna be an agreement on that question in about a year's time. That means that in a year and a half we will have a referendum again. I'll look forward to seeing that. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does that mean that the rapporteur's understanding of asylum and development policy is broader than that indicated by the Prime Minister on 23 September when he said that a 'yes' can be used in the forthcoming referendum to actually join the refugee redistribution mechanism?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131239	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131242	After all, the rapporteur is now publishing the Prime Minister's words. I will not stand here and interpret what the Prime Minister may have thought and said in this regard. I would just like to say that a guarantee has been given, and I think we should bear this in mind, that if in some future or other someone does not intend to turn the issue of foreigners into a new EU discussion in this context, there will be a referendum. I think we should bear that in mind, because that is the key point.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131307	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131317	Thank you. I would like to stay a little bit on the same subject, which is about this guarantee that the Prime Minister has given to the Danish people, that is, if a majority in the Folketing wants to give up sovereignty in the area of foreigners, then a referendum has been promised. That is how I have understood the Prime Minister, and I think that is quite fine. What I saw may have a little difficulty getting into my head is why that promise cannot be extended to other areas. For this so-called opt-in system, i.e. the abolition of the reservation of the law, means that in future a majority in the Danish Parliament can give more and more power in new areas to the European Union without their being withdrawn and without the Danish people being consulted again. Why is it so important to have a referendum on foreigners? Why not also promise the Danish people that if for example. If there is a European Public Prosecutor's Office, will you have a referendum, or if there are common custody rules, will you have a referendum, or if there are common divorce rules, will you have a referendum? Why not extend democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131432	Thank you. Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131434	I think it is quite clear to those who have followed the debate on this that asylum and immigration policy is a completely central issue to get clarification in this regard. And I see the Prime Minister's guarantee in the light that it is needed, not least because there are several forces also in this Things that are doing what they can to muddle that debate by constantly talking about asylum and immigration, even if this is not the case. So in that light, of course, that guarantee is given, that is, that the Danes who sit around wondering how this debate can continue to be so muddled, will understand what this is not about. I think the Prime Minister himself said that this debate would have to be ready again if it had not been in advance. So that's enough in the light that that guarantee is given. To the question of having referendums popularly said 'every four weeks there is nothing more to say than that this has already been explained on previous occasions, that is, it is a theoretical and academic possibility that one should be able to vote every three or four weeks, if I may say so, because there were changes. The Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned this. Personally, I don't think it has any time on earth at all. It is, of course, again an attempt to muddle the debate by making it a democracy debate. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131539	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131544	So what I understand the rapporteur is that it is not, as such, because the government and the Prime Minister think it is a good idea to promise a referendum in the field of foreigners, but because they would like to have cut off the right flank, so to speak, and because they do not want to discuss it. However, there is no answer in what the rapporteur says to why referendums cannot be extended to other areas in force, other than that referendums are a little annoying every four weeks. There are two questions in what I am saying now. One: is the rapporteur really thinking that sovereignty should be transferred every four weeks with this electoral system? Because that is what is being said. Two: why not extend democracy to e.g. a European Public Prosecutor's Office? Shouldn't the Danes be heard about it if it happens someday?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131636	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131639	This isn't a question of whether it's a good idea or not. This is a question of clarifying to the Danes what this referendum is about. And I would just like to say that I personally think it is a good idea to have that clarification. Then Mrs. Pernille Skipper can interpret it in any way she wants. What this is all about is ensuring that there is clarity. It is, if I may say so, a service to the Danes; I guess it's okay when there's so much effort out there to muddle the debate. On the subject of voting every four weeks: it is not just because I find it annoying. That is because it cannot be done in practice. So you have to relate to reality. As the previous rapporteur also said, it takes three months for the Danish Government to be able to deal with this. There is a three-month period, if I may say so, before the government can deal with it, and the three-month period will have to be observed and respected, and then, as soon as there are comma changes, you cannot suddenly start to say that there will have to be a referendum again. That's all I'm saying. I am not opposed in principle to referendums.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131732	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131734	It is really very interesting that the rapporteur from the Left envisages the adoption of new legislative acts because that is what we are talking about and not comma changes in the European Union every four weeks. Smaller changes can be made within the legislative framework; it is, in fact, completely irrelevant. This is of course very interesting, but I must also admit that I am becoming increasingly mystified about what the government is going to propose. I really can't understand that. Are we joining the electoral system, or are we partly joining the electoral system? I thought it was a either-or, a little like you can be pregnant, or you can't be pregnant. You can't be anything in between. Does Denmark fully subscribe to the electoral system, or do we not fully subscribe to the electoral system? I think the rapporteur owes us all a clear answer to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131827	I have to admit, I'm not quite getting the point here. Of course, we agree with the electoral system if necessary. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131834	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131836	This is of course interesting, because if we fully agree to the system of voting, what kind of legislative proposal will be put forward in connection with the accession to the electoral system, which obviously means that it is not binding unless there is a referendum? Then it is absolutely right, as Mrs Pernille Skipper said, that there are plenty of areas where it will be relevant. I'm very concerned about the right to strike. At present, a proposal is being considered in the European Union to limit the right to strike by port workers. We have seen in the past how the Commission has repeatedly come forward with a proposal to restrict the right to strike. We have seen how the European Court of Justice in Waxholm has entered and banned strikes. I'm very concerned about the right to strike. Was it an opportunity that we also got a promise from the Left that there will be no interference with the right to strike unless we have had a referendum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131928	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020131930	I have full sympathy for Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard's concern about the right to strike and other things. It just has nothing to do with this. I would recommend that we wait until we see the amendment to see what is actually in it, and then we can take the discussions from there. However, as I have pointed out a few times from up here, this is about ensuring that the Danes have clarity about what we are going to vote on. That's all it is. Then you can theorize a lot about referendums in all sorts of other areas. It just has nothing to do with this. We can easily discuss referendums as such on another occasion. This is just about providing the Danes with a guarantee and clarity that what we are voting on on 3 December is an electoral system which deals with Europol and 22 legal acts and does not deal with asylum and immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132016	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132021	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned that it is important to clarify what the Danes are actually being asked to take a position on. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. And on that ball street, I would just like to point out that I actually think it would be very nice if the yes side stopped pretending that this is only about Europol, because it doesn't. It's about everything but Europol. So it was actually mostly a comment. So I would like to ask the rapporteur's position on the surrender of sovereignty, because the fact is that if you get a yes on 3 December, sovereignty must be given by a majority in the European Committee, and my question is really just: how does the rapporteur feel about a majority in the European Committee sitting and giving up sovereignty on behalf of Denmark? It does not matter whether it is every 14 days, every 14 months or every 14 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132119	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132121	First of all, to this question that we are only talking about Europol. I don't know what this is. Do I take part in a debate here on the referendum of 3 December? I have now 10-12 times heard people, including myself, stand up here and say that this is not just about Europol, so I do not know where Mrs Christina Egelund has that claim. That is certainly not something I have contributed to, I can say. Then there is the matter of sovereignty. I find it incredibly interesting that we can continue to bear this in mind with sovereignty. In my view, sovereignty is a matter of formal versus real sovereignty. No one has concealed that either we have not done in the preparatory work for this that when we are going to the people's mood, it is, of course, because we are giving up sovereignty. But what kind of sovereignty are we giving? We are giving up the kind of sovereignty that you give when you enter into a negotiation and agree something. So let's not try to theorize more than that. It is a question of concluding agreements with other states, thereby, of course, giving up sovereignty in order to reach common solutions. This will give us really greater sovereignty, because we will actually have more participation and thus more, if I may say so, strength to decide for ourselves, to take care of our own future. I see that as real sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132226	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132229	I did not, of course, ask what the cooperation constellations on the surrender of sovereignty are like, because I am aware of them. I asked the rapporteur how the rapporteur feels about a majority in the Committee on European Affairs being able to give up sovereignty on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132245	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132249	How do I feel about that? What we do in this agreement is to make sure that Denmark sits at the table and gets the cooperation up and running that we have successfully participated in for many years. The question of whether we give up sovereignty is, in that sense, uninteresting. What this is about is that we are giving up some formal sovereignty, because we want to continue in the cooperation we are already part of. So for me, it's a theoretical discussion. I think we should deal with reality instead of botanising on all these issues, because it helps spread the smokescreen that we talk so much about. Instead, let the Danes know what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132323	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132332	Thank you, Madam President. After all, I have noted several times that Mr. Morten Løkkegaard says that what you want is that there must be clarity. In fact, I believe that Mr. Morten Løkkegaard actually said that clarity should be a service to the Danes. That sounds very nice, and we do not disagree with that. But as far as this bill is concerned, would it not have been quite appropriate, precisely in order to create this clarity, if the government had instead chosen to draw up an agreement in which it presented a description of the 22 acts on which sovereignty was sought? Then the citizens, the voters, knew what it is practical for 22 acts and how they should deal with them. What you have chosen to do is to actually make a carte blanche, because there is a menu here that you can take. If you vote in favour of this, it will end up with the possibility that sovereignty can then be passed by a simple majority of the European Committee of the Regions or by a majority of the Folketing. This is not the right way to do it, because it does not provide clarity, and I hope the rapporteur will try to reflect on that. Clarity would be, of course, if one were to admit openly, including here in the Danish Parliament, that what we are doing about this is that sovereignty is actually being given over.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132430	I'm gonna ask you to calm down on the series of ministers. Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132437	I don't know if we've read the same papers. I am here with the paper on the transformation of the legal relationship and the 22 amendments to legal acts, where anyone can find out what the 22 acts we are talking about are about, so that is certainly no secret to anyone. So I just don't know what Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby's business is in this case, for it is described completely. On the contrary, we have called for the Danish People's Party, precisely because the 22 acts are so well described, to engage in a real discussion about what you are for and what you are against, so that the Danes can get some real answers to what the parties want and what they do not want. It is certainly not a secret because what these 22 acts are about can be found anywhere on the Internet.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132515	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132518	Now I don't know where mr. Morten Løkkegaard finds himself in the Danish Parliament on a daily basis, but I do not think that there are many of the 51⁄2 million Danes who can define and describe or have chosen to read through the 22 specific acts. What they are dealing with is what they have to do on 3 December when they are going down to vote in their local polling station and say yes or no. That's what they're dealing with. There it is, of course, that, on the basis of this bill, it has been decided to say: we are not choosing to rely solely on 22 legal acts. We choose to base ourselves on the fact that we have to surrender sovereignty, which means that at any time a majority in this Parliament will be able subsequently to give up sovereignty in a large number of other areas of law, and that is not in the 22 legislative acts. That is why I am saying that this should have been reflected a little earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132603	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132606	I can only repeat what I have said. It is clear from the preparatory work for this that it is a question of surrender of sovereignty. It shows a number of different places where every citizen can look up and see what these 22 legal acts are all about. So I simply do not understand what the concern is; I have to say that. Everything is fully and openly illuminated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132623	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132630	I really think that the vote is very clear. It is a question of abolishing the reservation of law, or should we not abolish the reservation of law? This is about: is legal policy something that we basically decide in the Danish Parliament, or is legal policy something that in future must be fundamentally decided by the EU by majority voting? That is the fundamental question. Then there are a large number of concrete acts that we are discussing here today, and I would like to mention family law once again. Because in this area, mutual recognition is also being introduced. I mentioned this earlier to the Socialist rapporteur, in which I said that the courts of other EU countries can make judgments which we will then have to follow here in Denmark without being able to test them in Danish courts. Is it not a problem in this context that there are different rules within family law? For example: joint custody in Romania? What is the amount of the spouse's allowance normally granted in Poland? Can you have a co-mother in Lithuania, in other words a situation in which two women have joint custody? If you cannot answer such questions, you do not know which legal situation is going to apply in Denmark, if it is the case, for example. is a Lithuanian court that will judge in a divorce case. So will the rapporteur not recognise that we have a problem here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132743	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132746	In relation to that old travert that we are abolishing, I would just like to say that we are still not doing so. We're transforming. These are not words we make up, they are words that appear in the Ministry's own text. We are transforming into an opt-in system, and no matter how many times we talk about abolishing it, there is no question of abolishing it. Then there's the family law thing. I do not take part in the general suspicion of other states' communities of law or the state of law I do not. I am not hiding from the fact that I am a declared EU supporter, and of course it also includes the fact that when you make agreements of this kind, you recognise the legal systems and ways of dealing with things in other nation states. It is true that we do not have uniform systems, I would like to acknowledge that. But it is not the same as the fact that one necessarily has to put up a scare picture of what is going on. I am aware that this, and this is also evident from the hearings which have been given, is a great gain for the Danish families in the sense that it can help to ensure that women or men who receive a restraining order can take it with them to other countries, as some of the previous speakers have also mentioned, and that in cases of child abduction one can also be sure that one can assert one's right in other countries. Again: It's give and take. I would like to acknowledge that. But I just have to say that there is a lot more on the plus side.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132903	Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020132906	So we actually got a little out of the way: it's give and take. But I do not think that we should just give and take here when it comes to key issues such as: family law. For example, Denmark and the other Nordic countries have: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. do not recognise that two women may have joint custody. After all, it would be a problem if there were to be a judgment on joint custody in one of the countries we saw in Denmark that we would have to follow, even though we actually have joint custody in Denmark when it comes to two women. Then it is also the case that parental authority in Denmark is, as a rule, actually divided between parents by divorce. That is not the case in other countries. It is the case that the fathers are typically worse. Does the rapporteur not think that we also have a problem here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133004	Well, I have to understand that Enhedslisten does not want to give and take in these contexts, and perhaps it illustrates very well what the difference between Left and Enhedslisten's view of European cooperation is. It is therefore Enhedslisten's view that we should not give anything to get anything, I acknowledge that, and that is perhaps why we are so far apart from each other on these issues as we are doing. On the specific points that have been raised, I would point out once again that if Mr. Rune Lund put things together and then on the bottom line, a huge plus would come out. And I have to refer again to the hearings where it appears that the people who are professionally involved in these matters are happy that this is being introduced. They are happy about it, and I think that we must also respect it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133051	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133059	Thank you. First, I want to make sure I heard right. The rapporteur said that this is about Europol and 22 legal acts. That is what we are voting on. I would like to ask whether this is not about Europol and 22 legislative acts and that we move all future acts from referendums to parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133126	That depends on what legislation we are talking about. Now we have been discussing, for a long time now, that, in the area of asylum and immigration, a guarantee has now been given that a referendum will be held, and I think we should bear that in mind. It is clear that, if you come into the situation as proposed here, you will, for example, be able to do so. I believe that this is not possible in practice, as I have said a little popularly, for voting on the individual parts, as some Members of this Parliament are suggesting, is going to mean that, as I have said, voting is going to take place every three or four weeks. After all, as has already been said before, a section 20 exercise has already been carried out in 2007, as it says where the lawyers have blue-stamped what is going on. So that is the way to talk about sovereignty being given, yes, but that is within the framework of the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133215	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133218	Now I'm gonna have to breathe so I can keep up. It was the rapporteur who said that no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. This means, therefore, that we are voting on Europol and 22 legislative acts and virtually all future acts, except one. Then why isn't one of them in the bill? Why is it only annexed to it as a loose political agreement between some parties? The rapporteur himself has, moreover, raised doubts about it, as his party chairman says that the agreement lasts until the sun burns out, whereas Mr. Lykketoft says it lasts until Mr. Lykketoft. Lars Løkke Rasmussen resigns as chairman. It is really questioning an agreement. Why doesn't it come into the law when you think it's so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133310	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133313	With regard to smokescreen, I would say that my name is Løkkegaard What is the matter here is that there is an amendment coming, and I think we should wait and see that amendment before we decide how loose and firm it is with these things. I know that work has been done on this, hopefully in order to accommodate as many parties as possible, so let us now see the amendment before we condemn it, as is happening here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133336	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133338	If I had the right to vote in this referendum on 3 December, I would vote in favour because I think it is a sensible thing to do. But I don't have the right to vote. In the Faroe Islands there is no right to vote, and that is problematic, because with this vote Denmark is for the first time moving into an area where there are matters which Denmark manages on behalf of the whole kingdom, which are common matters for the whole kingdom and which are now being sent to Brussels to be managed. Does the rapporteur see any democratic problems in Denmark voting to send things to Brussels to be managed and that this can also be done on behalf of the Faroe Islands? Because you must not be allowed to vote in the Faroe Islands. And how does the rapporteur view future developments in the Kingdom Community when common matters are sent to Brussels to be managed while Greenland and the Faroe Islands are outside the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133441	First of all, I'm gonna have to report a passport. I have to say that, if I may say so, I have not had the opportunity to deal with that question. It's the first time I've come across it, so I just have to tell you quite frankly that I'm gonna be careful. To the end, the question of the Kingdom Community, I would like to say that that debate was also held in connection with the opening debate, and I think there were some wise considerations about it. I think you have to look at it that way. I would like to acknowledge personally that there is a problem that I find difficult to solve. It must ultimately be a question of what the Faroe Islands themselves want in this regard. You just have to recognise that, within the framework of a community of nations, there are, of course, certain rules of the game that you have to observe. So without becoming too weary, I would say that it must be part of the closer and further discussions on the Faroe Islands' relationship with Denmark and vice versa, how to do so. However, I recognise that this is an important issue. I also felt in Brussels when I was sitting down there as a Member while this fish conflict was running, that it was a difficult one to get the gear. And I think we're gonna have to deal with it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133547	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133550	As I see it, if democracy is to be upheld, Denmark cannot send anything to Brussels on behalf of the Faroe Islands on which the Faroe Islands have not voted. Then we will have a situation here in Tinget, where Denmark continues to be a legislator, but only legislators about conditions in the Faroe Islands. It's gonna be a bit awkward, isn't it? The alternative is that the Faroe Islands and Greenland take over all the matters that Denmark sends to Brussels, and then the Kingdom community is drifting away from each other more and more. That was a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133626	Yes, it was just a comment and not a question, so I just take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133632	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133638	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. Morten Løkkegaard on social dumping. I know that it is not usually something that absorbs the Left so much, but it therefore takes up the Danish People's Party, and it also absorbs a great many Danes, I think, who have lost their jobs to underpaid foreigners, East Europeans. I just wanted to ask you if Mr. Cole... Morten Løkkegaard agrees with Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party in the LO's hearing reply, which says that the removal of the legal reservation would be a means of combating social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133701	It is true that this is an area which, of course, is a smaller area in this context. I would say that I will also rely on the LO's hearing response. I, as I stand here, have no background to asserting the opposite or countering what the LO writes. I assume the LO is an expert on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133723	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133725	I think that was a fantastic answer, and now I think that the rapporteur of the Conservatives should listen to the debate and others who might be in favour of the European Union. For social dumping is not mentioned with a single word in the LO's consultation answer, and that is really just what I wanted to achieve. I think it is reprehensible to misinform a Parliament plus the moony television viewers. Social dumping is not mentioned in a single word. So it was nice just to get it settled. If, for example, we do not know what to do. If we take the FOA's hearing answer, we can see that it even says that we are extremely concerned and that we really want to see what the consequences of labour law might be in the context of the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133808	It seems to me that it is the Danish People's Party that is teasing a little at the moment. I mean, what I said was that what the LO had to write in its hearing answer, I have no background to be able to counter. I assume that they are the experts in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020133839	Thank you. There is something wrong with the bill we are discussing today. It starts with the title: the proposal for a law on the transformation of the legal reservation into an electoral system. Change the reservation of the court it's just gibberish. If the government gets its way in the referendum, the legal reservation is not changed. It's gone, all the way. In 1992, the people voted against the EU-enthusiastic majority in the Folketing. It did not want the establishment of an EU state with a single currency, a common military, a common legal policy and a common citizenship, and if the other countries went any further, the Danish people did not want to be involved. That is why we had the four exceptions. It was not the exception of politicians. Those were the exceptions to the population. They ensured the people against the politicians in these areas surrendering power to the European Union without its being approved in a referendum. That is what will be done away with in the legal field if the legal reservation is lifted on 3 December, because then it will no longer be up to the people to approve the transfer of power to the European Union, but only a majority in Christiansborg. Does that mean anything to you? Is this not just about Europol and then some technical details that can immediately sound very legitimate? And to that is Enhedslisten's answer: No. Firstly, it is not a technical detail that foreign courts, for example. can decide on monitoring of Danish citizens or searching in Danish homes. For example: It is not a detail that foreign authorities can impose an expense on citizens of Denmark that they would not have had under Danish rules. This, on the other hand, is detrimental to legal certainty and transparency. Secondly, this referendum is not just about giving politicians the opportunity to submit 22 current legislation to Denmark. It is also about giving a future more or less random majority in the Folketing the power to forever, and it is, as we know, relatively long, to subject Denmark to an infinite number of EU provisions relating to legal policy and to notice without these politicians ever having to ask the people in a referendum again. What will be the consequences? Of course, it's hard to predict exactly. The EU's supranational legal policy can include everything from what is legal, who we punish, how much we punish, how we punish, family law, children's cases, inherited, the right to strike and everything else that interferes deeply with the everyday lives of every citizen. But one thing is beyond doubt: abolishing the reservation of law will inevitably give less democratic influence to the Danish people. Just one example: a small majority here in the Folketing will lower the criminal low age and put children under 15 years of age behind bars. You may think so of what you want, but if it is implemented, and it turns out to be going very wrong, then the voters can just put together a new Parliament, and then we can change the decision again. This is not the case if, at some point, there is an EU law on a lower criminal low age, which a majority in the Danish Parliament subscribes to with the vote of 90 to 89. Then the table gets caught. Then the Danish people can vote exactly as they like, and all members of parliament can want the criminal low age set up again. It just doesn't change anything. For once it is adopted, EU law is above Danish law. The government wants people's legal reservations abolished; this cannot be done quickly enough. That's why this matter needs to be rushed through the Folketing. And if they succeed, it can never be done over again. That is why it is a historic decision facing the Danish people on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134315	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134321	Thank you. I was very pleased to hear you, sir. Søren Søndergaard praised the Danish exceptions from 1992, and I found that interesting, for Mr. Søren Søndergaard was against them then. Sir. Søren Søndergaard voted against the derogations in the 1993 referendum, but there is so much in this world. What I do not quite understand is that the Enhedslisten is not aware of how crime becomes more cross-border, becoming international. The Enhedslisten, as a party, should, if I may say so, understand and act upon that. And is mr. Soren Søndergaard did not agree that international cooperation on cross-border crime is necessary? Then Enhedslisten talks a lot about the loss of sovereignty. Let me ask a simple, very cash question about one of the legal acts on which we have to decide, the so-called restraining directive: a Danish woman gets beaten up by her boyfriend; the boyfriend gets a restraining order from the police; the woman wants a trip to Germany but cannot take it with her today. Is it a loss of sovereignty that she can take this restraining order with her to Germany instead of having to apply for it again in Germany? Is that so horrible?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134441	Indeed, it is true that we praised the Danish derogations so much that we thought they should apply to the whole of the European Union. In fact, we were opposed to building a Union of military and citizenship and everything. Unfortunately, there was a majority in the Folketing who said that these exceptions should only apply to Denmark and not to the development of Europe. We were very sorry about that, but that's how it got. To Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's specific question: there are some of the acts here which we would very much like to endorse at an intergovernmental level. And why do we want to join them at an intergovernmental level? Because what matters is that we know what we agree with. However, we do not know what we support when we go along with the EU's supranational legal policy, because then the European Court of Justice will come in. After all, it is the European Court of Justice that ultimately decides how things should be interpreted, even without us in Denmark being able to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134535	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134538	Well, that's exactly the point of this: if we are to have a guarantee that the restraining order given to women here in Denmark can also be taken to Germany, and then there will be problems with the German authorities, then there are some common European rules that make it possible to effect that the woman can take this action with her. This can be said at a certain level, an abstract level may be a loss of sovereignty, but isn't it an advantage for the Danish woman that she can easily take this stand with her to Germany in order to be protected from the violent husband who would otherwise beat her up?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134622	Well, I actually thought that Holger K. Nielsen had given up the fight with me about who was most critical of the European Union. But now I get it, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, that he gives the European Union some really serious motives, namely to say that the European Union should not be interested in making any agreements, even here with a Member State or for that matter with related countries, about making such a thing work. Of course, there must be a parallel agreement in this area, and if the European Union does not want to do so, it is a very harsh criticism of the European Union. That was also the question in it, sir. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned earlier, with cross-border crime. Cross-border crime cannot be combated from within the European Union. We have seen a case today that goes far beyond the borders of the European Union. Of course, there must be international police cooperation, even beyond the borders of the European Union, but it must be controlled by the people and their elected national parliaments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134714	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134716	Thank you. At this level, I actually believe that Mr. Søren Søndergaard and myself and the Danish People's Party agree fairly on what is to be voted on 3 December. But I would like to ask, perhaps, a little polemical: is this not really a self-inflicted problem that has arisen for Denmark, understood in the sense that when, in the absence of a referendum, you said yes to the Treaty of Lisbon, you were well aware that in the legal field things would become supranational? It is, of course, in the Treaty of Lisbon, and so it was also known that this problem would one day arise. But you shot it down because you didn't want to ask the citizens. I know it is a bit polemical, but I think it is important to get there in such a debate as today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134802	I had hoped that it was the Socialist rapporteur who had asked me, because I asked her exactly that question. That is why I also took the Lisbon Treaty to the platform. For it is quite true that the parties that are now saying that it is absolutely essential to be part of Europol and that we must therefore abolish the Danish legal exception are the same parties that made it possible for us to have a problem with the Danish legal exception through their adherence to the Treaty of Lisbon and, of course, to feel an agreement that happened without a referendum. So it has to be said that, first of all, it is a self-created problem. So, the Secretary of State's Party, the Social Democratic Party, sir. Holger K. Nielsen's party has a direct responsibility for the fact that we are in this. But not only what they have so far allowed 5-6 years to pass the Treaty of Lisbon came into force in November 2009, and then one could have hoped that they would have seen at least once they had seen what problem they had created for themselves, into the future starting to solve the problem that they were going into parallel negotiations or something that could take account of it. But nothing has happened in this area until now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134909	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134911	Once again, perhaps a somewhat polemical question, but I would like to ask: if you mention this directive on restraining orders, which you would also like to agree to, then I might well ask, and now I look forward to having the Socialist People's Party take the floor on whether it is worse to travel to the United States without having a restraining order than it is to go to Germany. Because I understand that it is very bad that we cannot, at least within the European Union, take a stand on this, but that it does not do so much if it is outside the European Union. There is at least about the same problem as there is now in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020134951	So, in the interest of fairness, I would urge the questioner to put that question to Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen. But I would say that here is a difference between the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, because I understand from the Danish People's Party that you are opposed to the content of the 21 acts. We're not. There are a number of legal acts in which we can see some positive elements. But the crucial element is that the Danish people and the Danish courts lose authority and in future we are forced to enforce what the Bulgarian or Italian courts have decided, weighing most heavily on us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135027	Then it's mr. Morten Løkkegaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135031	First of all, I think it's nice that Mr. Søren Søndergaard indicates from the platform that, after all, there are a large number of the acts that are included here, in which Enhedslisten can actually see the positive in. I think it is beneficial for the debate that we can get it established, because it was not much that we got out of the Danish People's Party in that account. In this connection, I would like to repeat the question I addressed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, because I think that the answer from that was sufficiently thin to allow me to hear whether it can be qualitatively improved by Mr Delors. Søren Søndergaard. It is the question of parallel agreements if and if and if we ever have a debate on them and when we should expect a parallel agreement to apply. Will Mr. Søren Søndergaard recognizes that it can take between 5 years and 10 years? It will therefore destroy the work of the Danish police for a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135120	Once again, I have to admit that I am now completely outdone in my EU criticism and EU scepticism by the rapporteur of the Left, who is therefore seriously trying to deceive Parliament if we take the paedophile case in which the main defendant is in Denmark that the EU would not have made a parallel agreement, but would have allowed it to flow for 10 years, with the result that that person could have had an equal in Denmark without being prosecuted for ten years. Is that really what the rapporteur is trying to say? I think it's very amazing. If you have an idea that the EU wants to fight child pornography, if you have an idea that the EU wants to fight paedophilia, the EU will of course make an agreement with Denmark. As we have the same interest, the European Union will of course make an agreement with Denmark, which is that we can do this together, just as the European Union has with other countries outside the European Union. If you do not want to, we really need to consider whether this is the right club we are a member of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135217	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135221	Now that is not quite what I asked, because it is not a question of whether or not we should have agreements of this kind. It's a question of when. I just think that the facts argue that if and if and if we get a parallel agreement then whatever it may look like it will take a while. Will Mr. Søren Søndergaard recognizes that it will take a while? It is not out of bad will or out of a lack of enthusiasm, but simply because of the course of these negotiations. We can see it with a number of countries, both ourselves and, incidentally, the Norwegians, that it takes just time, because it is 28 countries that have to ratify that agreement when they come to it. It has taken nine years for the Norwegians to get the arrest warrant agreement. Will Mr. Søren Søndergaard recognizes that it takes so long?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135303	Firstly, I believe that it is very difficult to base itself on the facts of this matter, for the sole reason that what we are talking about Denmark must join has not yet been adopted at all. I mean, it's not adopted at all and we don't know what's going to stand. It may be that Mr. Morten Løkkegaard has a crystal ball and thinks he knows, but it has not actually been adopted at all. So what we want is for us to agree to something that has not been adopted at all. Secondly, we do not know whether the other EU countries will withdraw the old regulation. Actually, we don't know that. It may continue in the areas of Denmark. And I've been asking the Minister for Justice about that maybe that's what the Minister for Justice signed this morning... whether there's an opportunity to go another way. We'll see about that. But the short of the long one is that if there is a will to make a solution, it can happen quickly. At any rate, the European Union has shown this in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135349	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135352	Thank you. I would like to deal with the principle of the conclusion of parallel agreements, because I understand in the Enhedslisten that this can only be done instead of in all the areas that we now want to join through legislative acts. Isn't it easier to work together instead of making parallel agreements? Well, a parallel, if I may use that word, could be if there was a left-wing faction who wanted to have a collaboration with Enhedslisten. Isn't it easier for them to be in the Enhedslisten than for you to sit and make special agreements on cooperation on a whole lot of different things? Can we not also say the same thing here, namely that it is probably easier to be involved in cooperation than to have to make 22 different parallel agreements that can take many years to negotiate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135435	I mean, I'm certainly not going to stand up to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov on the question that it may be easier, but I have to say that what we are discussing here is a little more important than the question of what is the easiest. I mean, it's a question of democracy and popular rule. It is a question of legal certainty and transparency. I must admit that I belong to those somewhat old-fashioned conservative types who think that issues of democracy and legal certainty and transparency are actually quite crucial, and if that sometimes means that some things cannot go quite so quickly, then it is a price that one should be willing to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135511	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135514	I'm not quite sure if I'm gonna assign Mr. Søren Søndergaard the honour of being an old conservative type. We can, of course, take Europol as an example. That is, of course, the most important thing we will be voting on on 3 December. If we are to make a parallel agreement in this area Norway has something similar, a kind of parallel agreement. This means, among other things, that you do not have direct access to the EU's information database, and thus Danish police cannot access information by searching the database themselves. Instead, they must each time apply for permission to search the database. This means that they seek much, much less than the Danish police do. Can't Enhedslisten see a problem in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135556	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Jarlov raises that question. It is true that the Danish police sought 70,000 times in Europol in 2014. 20% of all searches entered in the Europol register were carried out by Denmark. We make up 1%. of the population. Isn't it a little strange that we make up 1%? of the population, but has 20%. of the searches? In Norway you only seek a few thousand times in one year, 35 times less. Does this mean that the number of child pornography cases and the number of paedophiles and the number of criminals and the number of smugglers is 35 times greater in Norway than it is in Denmark? Okay, if that was the case, then I guess it was worth considering, but if it isn't, then the number of times you're looking for is a completely indifferent measure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135643	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020135700	Thank you. Like the rapporteur of the Left, it is also my first speech on this platform. In this way, there is a certain balance in the proportion of virgins on the yes and no sides today, and that is actually very good. Although the Liberal Alliance is in favour of the discharge of referenda, and although we welcome any chance of involving citizens in the political process, we will not vote in favour of the legislative proposal we are debating today. We are voting against the proposal, and we are also recommending that the Danes vote against abolishing the reservation in the vote on 3 December. There are certainly a number of areas of legal policy where there are benefits from being part of pan-European solutions, including: in cases where it can strengthen legal certainty across the borders of ordinary Danes, for companies and for travelling workers. We are standing, for example. not in the way of continued Danish participation in European police cooperation Europol. On the contrary, we have been pushing for a Danish parallel agreement for a long time. It is inconceivable that there should be a real European resistance to finding a common understanding that ensures effective cross-border crime prevention. Alternatively, one would imagine that the Germans, for example. in earnest would fight for Denmark, a neighbouring country with open borders, to be an unregulated and irresponsible criminal hell. My imagination just doesn't go far enough. So the basic premise of the Jalots does not stand up. We do not have to give up the legal reservation, even if we want to stay in Europol. Less can do it. However, if the yes parties want to take a vote, then we are not against it, but the voting theme must be loyal to reality. It is not with what is being presented today. The theme is given a rhetorical dispute which only serves to give the Danes the impression that they are voting on something other than they actually are. Democratic is not quite within the dial. We can read it in the hearings. For example, the Association for the Law of the Sea points out: In the name of the draft law itself, the word 'conversion' does not clearly state that it is a (total) repeal of the reservation of law. Professor, Dr. Jur. Peter Pagh says it differently in an interview with Everything. He says: 'A model of election includes saying yes to surrender sovereignty in all areas covered. Therefore, as the political agreement stands, the whole of judicial cooperation is being thrown on the table for a referendum. So it's fuck or fall. Are you confident that a marginal majority of the parliament or, as it might rather unfold, a marginal majority of the European Committee will choose correctly on a case-by-case basis when it is appropriate to give up Danish sovereignty and when it is not? Quite frankly, then, there is no precedent for such trust. The removal of citizens' ability to say away from European legislation risks ending up with solutions that the Danes do not want. This was clearly seen in the euro vote, where the Danes voted quite differently than a large majority of the members of the Folketing recommended. And, by the way, we also saw the same sloping security from the 'yes' parties at that time as we are experiencing that day. Today, the Prime Minister can give guarantees until the sun burns out, and then his party's rapporteur, later Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said: "A yes to the euro will bring lower interest rates, a no to the euro will give higher interest rates. No one can accurately predict the cost of no, but that there will be a cost beyond any doubt. Today, we know that maintaining the euro reservation saved the country some liability of approx. 338 billion DKK, and we know that high interest rates are far from Danish everyday life. In the Liberal Alliance we prefer to relate to harsh realities rather than to frightening predictions read in stars, tea leaves or crystal balls, and it is a reality that the table will catch if we first surrender sovereignty. This will not be reversed either by the people or by the changing majority of the people. It is a reality that, even if the 'yes' parties today exempt legal acts, after a possible 'yes' vote on 3 December, they will still be able to opt for them. It is a reality that Danish legal policy is moved further away from the citizens and that it will be implemented through difficult transparent decision-making. No one is in favour of this, and that is why the Liberal Alliance wants us to retain the legal reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140204	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a questioner, and that's Trine Bramsen from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140210	It was a very long talk about theoretical quirks. Can the rapporteur not simply answer why it is that the Liberal Alliance does not want us to continue to have a strong defence against criminals? And what is the alternative to the Liberal Alliance? I think there are many people in this Chamber who would like an answer to that rather than such a theoretical lesson.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140239	What Mrs Trine Bramsen calls theory is, of course, about how to give up sovereignty in this country, and of course one can minimize that, but I do not think we should, and that is not our policy either. How to give up sovereignty and how to deal with popular government and democracy is not such a loose talk of theory. As far as Europol is concerned, I said it in my speech, but I would like to say it once more: the Liberal Alliance will not stand in the way of continued Danish participation in Europol. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140310	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140312	But this is not just about Europol; there are 22 pieces of legislation designed to ensure greater security for Danes and for Danish companies and make it easier to be a Danish company. I also note that there are a number of consultation responses from the Danish business community which emphasise that this is important to them in order to be able to act on the European market. Can the Liberal Alliance rapporteur not give a very clear answer to what the Liberal Alliance wants instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140343	We in the Liberal Alliance do not actually have any problems with any of the acts that we would like to adopt. Where we have a problem with the model proposed by the government is how to deal with the acts that are not initially adopted, and that is what Mrs Trine Bramsen refers to as loose theory. But I do not think it is a loose theory that Danish sovereignty is dealt with under the Basic Law on e.g. Five-sixths majority here in the Folketing or a referendum. So it is not the individual legal acts, because we agree with them that it is common sense for Denmark to participate in, but we do not want to do so at the expense of abolishing the people's possibility of a referendum and leaving it to the majority of the European Committee to surrender sovereignty on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140432	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140437	In other words, we agree with everything that we have to vote on here and that we have to say yes to, but we are afraid of what can happen in the longer term. Because, as was said, it could be that there was a tiny majority that would bring us into something that could be unpleasant. I assume, however, that the rapporteur is, as it were, aware of what is contained in the political agreement that is behind this bill, and it is, of course, that the parties to the agreement must agree. This means that each of the parties to the agreement has a right of veto in relation to whether we should say yes or no to future acts. And as with other settlements, you can terminate it before a parliamentary election, but then we will have the opportunity to discuss the subject in a parliamentary election. It is not, of course, the case that, by chance, a small majority can hand over sovereignty to the European Union to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140537	Well, it is well understood that our problem with regard to this vote does not affect the acts that the yes parties wish to opt for, but affects the procedure for the election of future acts. And then you can say, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says that it is not just some random tiny majority, but it does not alter the fact that this vote fundamentally alters the procedure for the surrender of sovereignty on behalf of Denmark from today, where one has a procedure which says that either one has to have a five-sixth majority in this Chamber, or one has to ask the people about it. I think that's the procedure, sir. Holger K. Nielsen will agree with me that, after 3 December, it will have been removed in favour of a procedure whereby, by a large or small majority in the Committee on European Affairs, new legislation can be adopted and thus sovereignty given on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140632	However, I think it is interesting to agree with everything we have to vote on in concrete terms, but that we are afraid of the future. And then the rapporteur addresses the debate on Article 20 and the surrender of sovereignty. But it is an old discussion that was also held in 1972, and then the debate was based on a response from Max Sørensen, a very wise professor from Aarhus. From that interpretation, it came to the conclusion that there should be no referendums every time there were to be decisions in the European Union. But it was such a legal state discussion that I think we should then discuss this proposal in committee. Let us get it through the trawl when we deal with it in committee, so that we get these things perfectly clear, because I have no doubt that the state law and the question of Article 20 are thus dealt with in this bill. But if the Liberal Alliance is in doubt, let us look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140739	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140740	But this is not, with all due respect, an issue to be discussed in a committee. I think that it is quite crucial for the functioning of the people's regime, for issues of surrender of sovereignty to be decided, as laid down in the constitution, or for it to be referred to committee. Surely we should not sit on the European Committee and debate matters of state law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140810	Thank you. Next question is Morten Løkkegaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140812	Thank you. Like the previous questioners, I find it incredibly interesting that we in this House hear the Liberal Alliance say that we fully agree with the content of what is to be voted on and that this reduces the discussion to a question of Article 20 of the Constitution. After all, we have just heard from a man who should know better than most, namely Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, what that discussion started with and where we are still gone, and where we have thus got the legal expertise from the Ministry of Justice to say that § 20 is finished, if I may say so. What I would like to address to the rapporteur is another aspect: the distrust expressed here, namely I had almost said a populist mistrust of politicians as such and the fact that a majority in the Folketing cannot take care of the interests of Denmark on behalf of the Danes. Is the rapporteur aware that, in the case of parallel agreements, the final decision on what Denmark should be able and unable to do is left to the European institutions, namely the Commission and now to the European Parliament under the recent agreements? Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020140919	To start with, it is the case that parallel agreements can be concluded on issues which are intergovernmental and not supranational. That is why, in the legal sense of the state, it is not a surrender of sovereignty, and I think that is what is crucial. Then it can be said that it is a trifle and that it is strange when we now agree with the content of the acts that you wish to sign up for. We agree with that. I'm a little surprised that it's so surprising, sir. Morten Løkkegaard. But we agree with them. But I do not think it is a small thing, if you vote yes on 3 December, that you then take the step of moving from a situation where today it either requires a five-sixth majority in the Folketing or a majority of the population to surrender sovereignty on behalf of Denmark, that you move from that state to a state where you can sit in the Committee on European Affairs and give up sovereignty during a committee procedure. I don't think that's a small detail, but it's obviously a temperament issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141018	I do not share the distrust that the poor European Committee must suffer all the time. In my view, in its form and in its number, the Committee on European Affairs is representative of the Folketing, as it has been set up. At least it was the last time I went after him. So I guess decisions can be made there too. That is what we have based our system on. But back to the question that I didn't get an answer to. The creation of parallel agreements means, in practice, that the institutions of the European Union must approve what is achieved. Is this an expression of the fact that the Liberal Alliance has more confidence in the European institutions than in the Danish politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141101	No, it is certainly not an expression of that. And we have also said earlier in this debate, in the media and elsewhere, that we are in favour, including with regard to Europol, of giving up Danish sovereignty. That is not at all where our problem is in relation to this vote. What we are concerned about and why we recommend a 'no' vote in the vote on 3 December is the examination of future legislative acts, that is, the election of additional acts, and how to deal with the issue of the surrender of Danish sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141130	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141134	Thank you. May I not start by saying that I have been sitting in the Committee on European Affairs for about six years, and it is the case that when you sit there and give your mandate, you count the number of seats you have in the Danish Parliament, and that means that the rapporteur we have for the Danish People's Party at this time counts 37, which is wonderful. Nevertheless, I do share the distrust that the rapporteur has of the Committee on European Affairs or of the other five parties in the Danish Parliament, because although they have a majority in the European Committee, it is very, very rarely that one hears a no to a mandate, almost whatever is proposed in the European Committee, and that goes from the Left and Conservative parties to the Socialists, the Socialist People's Party and Radicals. They are in complete agreement, as long as the proposal comes from the European Union. At least I've seen that for six years. So that's why I share that distrust. My question to the rapporteur must then be on the agreement made between the five parties and whether agreements which have ever been broken have ever been reached on the part of the Folketing. Because that agreement is being repealed into something that has been done so that it will never change. And I have, at least in the time I have been sitting in the Folketing, experienced conciliation that has been broken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141244	Let me turn to the question of distrust or not distrust. Historically, just when it comes to the issue of Denmark's association with the European Union, there has been quite a difference between what a majority in this House thought about a matter and what a majority in the population thought about a matter. We saw this at the latest in the referendum on joining the euro. On the question of whether, in my work in the Committee on European Affairs, I have seen agreements broken, I would say that I have been sitting in the Committee on European Affairs for too little time, so I still have that to do. So I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141328	Thank you. I understand that too, and I do not think it is really in the Committee on European Affairs that agreements are being broken, but perhaps just broad political conciliation. It has happened, at least, that they have been terminated in an election and that new settlements have then been made and so on. etc., and that could be the case here too. You never know. It could also be the case that at one point the five parties were so small that it had no relevance whatsoever for that agreement to exist, and I would then be very, very sorry that the legal reservation had disappeared.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141402	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141406	With regard to this with confidence and broken settlement, it flies a little in the media and elsewhere with guarantees in relation to this issue, and most recently, in connection with the opening debate, we saw the Prime Minister issue a guarantee of Denmark's commitment to a common EU asylum policy, and we must understand that guarantee is valid until the sun burns out. I know that you have a mandate as long as you have it, and I certainly have an expectation that Lars Løkke Rasmussen will continue to be Prime Minister for quite many years, but that he will continue to be so until the sun burns out, I have my doubts, without being such an expert on astrophysics, or whatever that is called. It is therefore true, as Mrs Pia Adelsteen points out, that the guarantees and promises which certainly characterise this debate cannot be taken for anything other than political declarations of intent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141501	Thank you. There's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141520	The alternative recommends a yes-but to the electoral system agreed by the parties in the conciliation circle. We do so because, on the one hand, we support stronger European cooperation in this area and, on the other, we also want to criticise the concrete agreement, which we believe is far from perfect. In fact, we believe that it is so imperfect that we have chosen to refuse to sit in the conciliation circle. When we have chosen not to sit in the conciliation circle, there are two main reasons for this. The first is about citizen involvement and transparency, which is crucial for the alternative. Whether we are talking about the closure of the Iraq Commission, the sale of DONG or the reservation of law, that is crucial. We are therefore unhappy that in future the conciliation circle will be able to decide for itself which acts Denmark should accede to or not accede to without first asking the Folketing or the people because of this mutual veto that has been made. The fact that the conciliation circle is free to move legislative acts from negative to positive seems to us neither transparent nor democratic. On the contrary, we find this problematic and questionable, and we want to have a problem with that. The second, and probably most important, point is that the conciliation circle has decided to keep the law on a common refugee and asylum policy out of the referendum, and we disagree with that, to put it mildly, not least when we consider that we are in the midst of the greatest humanitarian crisis since the Second World War and that the need for a common European solution is absolutely crucial to resolving the situation. We are talking about problems with people without passports, and these problems need to be solved together, and here we believe that the European Union is an obvious framework. In addition, we are incomprehensible about the choice to leave the issue of asylum and refugees in the referendum, because this is clearly an issue that really concerns the people. But we will come back to that later when the alternative resolution is to be dealt with in this Chamber. If we then recommend a yes to this opt-in system, it is because we believe that it is, after all, best for Denmark, because we believe that by replacing the reservation of law with the proposed opt-in system, we will at least be involved in the cooperation and will help to influence it in a direction that we in Denmark want. There are several good reasons for this, and one of them is, of course, that we continue with the electoral system in police cooperation as well. We can do that in a great many other ways, but again: we think, like many organisations, that the best way is to enter fully into this police cooperation, precisely because we can then also influence the development of it and not just endorse a possible parallel agreement after the other countries have agreed on it. So I have to say that the alternative supports the bill, but we want to emphasise our yes-but position, and that is because we want to express dissatisfaction with the decision-making process, which we believe is too undemocratic and opaque, and we also believe that the agreement excludes the people from voting on a common asylum and refugee policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141834	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141839	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to know whether the alternative has an overview of whether, for example, there is a problem. is joint custody in Romania, where the amount of spouse's contributions is approximately imposed in Poland, whether Italy or Spain recognises the rights of mothers and mothers, and not least children's rights in relation to their co-mothers in Italy or Spain, i.e. whether they are entitled to association, or how many countries in Europe recognise homosexual marriages. I ask, of course, because I do not know, but I expect the alternative to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020141934	I was just about to ask Mrs. Pernille Skipper if she knew so she could help me with that. But what is important to me when we talk about this is to say yes. Legislation is not perfect in all countries, but we believe that binding cooperation can help to develop things. We believe that through this cooperation, by agreeing to it, we can help push things in the right direction. If we're going to make parallel agreements on these things, we can sit around and wait for the others to decide, and then we can come and say, "Well, may we join in?" We would like to be involved in the cooperation where we can push and where hopefully we can also change some of those things, because I could imagine that I am not equally enthusiastic about all the different laws in the different countries that Mrs Pernille Skipper listed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142017	I think that is an interesting discussion too. So, I think it is an interesting view that when future legislation is to be adopted, and this must be done in the European Union, if we give up sovereignty and we have to agree with 27 other countries, of which a majority has a ban on homomarriages, Denmark suddenly has the opportunity to influence them all with our lovely policy. We can only hope so; I am probably a little more sceptical than the alternative. But I didn't actually ask for that. I asked because in the acts that we are adopting and which the Alternative supports there is mutual recognition, which means that decisions on parental responsibility, divorce and everything else are also applicable in those countries which do not recognise homo-marriages, which do not recognise the rights of mothers and children to them. We must also respect them in Denmark, including Danish children. What does the alternative really think of that? Are you willing to take those consequences with you?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142113	What is important for us to say is that this is a cooperation, because you can also turn it around and stand and be superpolemic and say: yes, but these countries must also recognise the Danish way of viewing things, the Danish legislation if matters are reversed. Well, this is a collaboration where we work across. If we are to recognise, for example, custody in Lithuania, it must also be recognised the other way around if people live here. It is, of course, a question of free movement, and that is why we need to have the opportunities for cooperation across the board, and we think that is a good idea in fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142146	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142149	Yes, thank you to the rapporteur. After all, I am one of those who have welcomed the emergence of the Alternative, because in many areas, not only in the green area but also in the area of legal policy, the Alternative stands for values that Enhedslisten has also stood for. So I can only welcome that. I have not been disappointed here when the rapporteur speaks so clearly about the importance of citizen involvement. But then it's just two things I don't understand. One thing I do not understand is that if we vote 'yes' on 3 December, as the alternative calls for, referendums on all future legal acts will be over. Then there will simply be no more referenda in the area of justice when it involves surrendering sovereignty to the European Union, not details, but massive surrender of sovereignty to the European Union. There will never be another referendum. Is this citizen involvement? The second question, following on from that, is that we know that if there is any doubt about the legal acts that exist at all times, it is the European Court of Justice that goes in and interprets. We have seen what has led to this. To put it mildly, it is not citizen involvement. Well, I'd like to hear the alternative's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142305	First of all, thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard for the praises. When we say that, after all, we recommend a 'yes' because we think it is a step in the right direction, there is also a great deal of criticism of the way in which it is done. We would like to see the legal reservation voted on. That is what we have been calling for all along: we would like to see the legal reservation voted on. You don't. Now you're transforming the legal reservation into this opt-in system. Yes, these five parties have given each other a hand in deciding what will be handed over in the future in one way or another, but we have seen a political development which also makes it possible to persuade these parties through negotiations and political work, for example, to make indicative referendums on some of these things. So that's my hope. That's also why we're going into this. That's because we believe we can help push these parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142359	Thank you for that hope, but even if the alternative had got its way and the legal reservation had been abolished once and for all, it would have meant that in all future legal acts there would have been no referendum. In other words, the alternative goes further than the conciliation parties in order to prevent citizens from being involved. In other words, we want to prevent a referendum ever again in the area of justice, right now, because we just have to go along with everything. Secondly, the fact that it is the European Court of Justice that has to interpret how political texts are to be implemented is certainly not citizens' involvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142446	If we put the whole legal reservation to the vote, we would just ask the people: do we want to enter into full pan-European cooperation in this area? What we are doing now is saying that it is an electoral system with 22 legislative acts, and then it is up to the conciliation parties or in indicative referendums to do something further. So I think it is a citizen's involvement to say clearly and clearly that we are setting the legal requirement if we did so and then citizens can say whether they want to join or not. We believe that cooperation in this area makes sense, because it is about cross-border matters, and that is something we think best solved in cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142526	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142532	Thank you. It was interesting to hear the rapporteur's belief that the European Union will function as a kind of basic democratic talking club, where the alternative can also come along. But what I was actually interested in hearing Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's views on what the scope of the alternative's adherence to this EU project really is, because I think that many voters, citizens, have little difficulty fully in finding out where the alternative is in different contexts. So I would like to ask whether the alternative is ready, for example. to exercise competence so that the EU can take decisions on criminal penalties for offences against the criminal code. For example, is it... Something the Alternative is in favour of?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142617	I am, of course, pleased with the curiosity about our European policy, and I will send our EU policy paper to the questioner so that he can read it through. What we think is positive about lifting the legal reservation is that then we will have to resolve things in cooperation across countries when it comes to cross-border crime. We do not believe that there is any point in standing and wanting to do so individually or through bilateral agreements or parallel agreements, but we believe that it is useful to be involved in cooperation and to help shape it in the right direction. What this is about is that what is of interest to the countries, including the other EU countries, is precisely that it is about cross-border crime. It is of course not interesting for any country that the European Union should go in and decide what is happening nationally, it is the cross-border issues that are the focus of this cooperation, and that is what is interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142715	It is here, of course, that there may not be complete simultaneousness in what the rapporteur says and the actual behaviour of the European Union. At EU level, for example, there are I am not sure how cross-border it is. So I would just like to know again from the Alternative's rapporteur whether there is anything where the alternative can say in advance: we do not really think the European Union should interfere in this. Or have we had such a new hallelujah party when the Conservative People's Party is leading a new line?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142757	I'd love to say hallelujah, but not right here and to that. What we think is that it should make sense to work together for these countries of the European Union. After all, the fact that Germany has proposed something does not make it an EU decision; after all, there must be a majority in favour of it, or all the Member States must be in favour of it. So, yes, there are sometimes proposals from different Member States that we have to pull off and say OK, but that does not mean that it has become EU law or an EU decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142830	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142834	Thank you, and thank you for your presentation. I would say that if the rapporteur thinks it is a pity that not all the legal reservations are put to the vote, then I do not quite understand it. Is it not the case that after 3 December the people are no longer asked about legal questions in Denmark? And isn't it a dismantling of citizen involvement to say: before you had the right to be asked, and now you hand it over to the Folketing? I believe that it is then to withdraw citizen involvement from the citizens and put it in the Folketing, even with a dubious majority of parties at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020142921	I'd like to say it again. We believe that it would make sense to remove the reservation of law, and we would like to ask the citizens about that. Now that is another question: it is an opt-in system in which 22 acts have been specifically selected by this veto group. But that doesn't mean that we don't keep being very critical. We do that when we talk to the different parties, and we do that here, and we do that in all sorts of other places, and especially with this little veto club, where you've made a musketeer out that you have to agree with this five-party group. We are critical of this. We don't think that's good. We think that if you make an option, you should have it in the Parliamentary Chamber, and then there should be no parties that have made prior agreements behind closed doors about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143008	I think the rapporteur is trying to put a veil over the fact that we are actually removing the legal reservation. The legal reservation is equal to the right to a referendum if you are to change it. That's it, sir. Holger K. Nielsen helped secure in 1993. We take this right from the citizens of Denmark, place it in the Folketing, and then it is called the electoral system. I do not know how much the electoral system really is in it. This means removing part of democracy from the population. They don't have the right to vote next time. The 22 are over in the European Union, and all future acts must be decided here. Although considerable sovereignty is being given, it is being decided here by a general majority. It is, however, a deterioration in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143101	I think it's weird that we're here arguing about this. Denmark is not the only country that is going to have an opt-in system. They also have electoral arrangements in other countries, and that is something other than removing the entire legal reservation. The fact that we then think that it might be an idea to remove the entire legal reservation is another discussion. But an opt-in system is now a size which also works for some other countries. So I think it is quite a discussion to have whether it is called an opt-in system or not. This is the optin you have in, among other things. England.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143138	Yes, please. Then it's Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143142	Thank you. I mean, I know it's only in England and not anywhere else you have the opt-in system. But maybe I remember wrong. I have a question when I hear what the alternative has to do with EU policy when it comes to wanting to get rid of the legal reservation, which is going to happen and I very much agree with the other questioners here. If the people choose the opt-in system on 3 December, then we no longer have a legal reservation, and then it is just as well done, you can say. But I would like to hear the alternative how they will influence the European Union. I understand that the European Union is seen as such somewhere where we can sit down in a circle and then talk a little bit about cooperation is good, I think most of us agree, we are known to do a lot here in Denmark but what will the Alternative do? You are not sitting in the European Parliament, and you are therefore not necessary for the majority in the European Union area. And I just want to say that, as a member of the Danish People's Party, I know what that means; it means that we are never asked because there is a majority in the European Union area. So you don't want to ask the alternative unless you know you want to be there. I just wanted to say that. So how do you expect to influence the EU area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143256	In order to cooperate one does not necessarily need to sit in a circle, although it may be nice, because then all people can look each other in the eye at once. So it was just a side remark for this little polemic talk that has to be all the time, about how the alternative would like to cooperate. We are not in the European Parliament yet. Of course, I hope we will. We are already working with other parties around Europe, talking to them, trying to find good ways to push EU cooperation in the direction we want. And so I have great faith in the cooperative government here in Denmark. Yes, a small group has been created here of five parties which have given each other a right of veto, and we must work to ensure that they want to open up and give influence to other parties as well, and I believe that once again. Then it may be that I say hallelujah and sit in circles sometimes, but it is my confidence in this people's rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143350	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143352	Well, I also think that a circle can be quite excellent sometimes, it may be good to look each other in the eye when you sit and discuss particularly important things. I am just a little stunted because, as I see it, what the alternative says is that you want to get rid of the legal relationship because you are in favour of us being a full member of the judiciary. In other words, Denmark must be a full member of the European Union in the field of justice, and that is to say, we say yes to all legal acts and all legal acts in the field of immigration and asylum policy, and that is how I understand it: you just say 'yes', because that is what you do if the legal reservation disappears on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143434	Again, I would like to express what we would like to see done, and that is to work together on cross-border problems, and that is what is involved in this judicial cooperation. These are problems that go beyond the borders of each country and, of course, we must work together on them. The motion for a resolution on refugees and asylum which we have tabled and which is to be dealt with later today, but which unfortunately is not yet included in this vote, is also about things that go beyond the borders of each country. That is why we must work together on this and work together to find the good solutions to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143508	Yes, please. Then it's Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143511	Thank you. I would like to stress that the Left has great respect for the seriousness of the alternative in this debate. That is what other parties in this Chamber would like to see. What brings me to ask something here is the criticism on your part that we have separated things and have an opt-in system that has separated the territory of foreigners. Does this mean that you do not recognise the guarantee given by the Prime Minister and three parties in the circle that we are going to a referendum if anyone wants to turn the area of foreigners into a discussion here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143549	Thank you. No. As I also said to various newspapers, after the Prime Minister gave this guarantee, the Prime Minister is not on the floor of the Danish Parliament and is lying. So I guess that guarantee is valid. We would like that guarantee to be put into effect on 3 December so that we can vote on it immediately, because it is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143610	Morten Løkkegaard will pass. Then we go ahead in the series of speeches, and the next one is mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen as rapporteur. We thank the rapporteur and give the floor to the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143643	After all, it is a question of converting the reservation of law into an electoral system, and the Radical Left is very much in favour of this. We warmly support the proposal before us now. It is, of course, primarily because of Europol that we want to remain a part of, but it is also because of the 22 acts we have adopted. It is well known that the police rely on Europol in the fight against cross-border crime, including paedophilia and other ugly things. Of course, we think that European cooperation is the answer to crime across the border. We want an opt-in system. We are pleased to avoid Denmark slipping out of Europol cooperation. When I hear the debate today, I think that people who support us voting against what is ahead of us need more detailed explanations as to how we can then maintain a proper relationship with Europol. It is my clear expectation that the parallel agreements that are being talked about, as if they were simply being pulled into a machine, are very difficult to get in the real world, and we run the risk of being outside Europol for a period of time, which I do not think is a particularly attractive scenario. We accept that what we are about to vote on now does not include a vote on a common asylum policy and we are aware that the government is tabling an amendment on the procedure for the possible accession of a common asylum policy. In short, however, we on the part of the Radical Left have always been very much in favour of European cooperation. We are pleased that we are now coming to a vote on part of the reservation in the legal field. We think it is very well-founded and see great benefits from it. It is clear that European cooperation is a matter of cooperation, and that means that, as we roll back some of our reservations, we will also have an increased impact on a common European policy in the areas we are now facing. So, on the whole, we on the Radical Left are very satisfied with it and warmly support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143843	Thank you. Then we go to the series of questions, and the first one is Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143849	Thank you. It was a relatively brief contribution by the rapporteur, and perhaps there is not really much to say about it here, at least not if you are radical. But now the Radicals pride themselves on being a party that listens. At any rate, this has been read in the election campaign. All sorts of different people are listened to: experts, lawyers and such things. That's why I think it would be nice if Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen could give a very clear answer as to whether it is not true that if you have said yes in the vote on 3 December, you can legally surrender sovereignty in the field of asylum and aliens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143932	Thank you. After all, there will be a proposal from the government shortly, which is precisely a political guarantee that there will be a referendum if necessary. A political guarantee is, of course, something other than a legal guarantee, but I cannot imagine the situation in which we could surrender sovereignty in the area of asylum without having a referendum first. This is a political reality, and that is something that is called.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143956	Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020143958	There I heard the rapporteur say that it is true that, as the proposal has now been drafted, there is nothing to prevent such action. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, who has been a member of the Folketing for a few years and has even been a minister, whether the rapporteur is aware that there have been political agreements here at Christiansborg which have been terminated during the period when the rapporteur was a member of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144025	I do not know what the questioner is referring to, but I can say that I consider it unthinkable in the real world that there should be a Danish accession to the European Union without a prior referendum, based on the political statements that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144040	Thank you. Then it's Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144043	Thank you. And thank you also for what I see as an answer, namely that it is legally possible for a majority subsequently to decide to accede to some legislative acts. There I have to ask another question, because it could be that the five parties that have now made this agreement were so small that there was in fact another majority in the Folketing who then went and said: we agree with that, because we are not part of that agreement. Could that happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144114	Well, Pia Adelsteen is, of course, absolutely right that you can't pre-discount anything for all eternity. It is also, I must say, extremely unlikely. And I have to say that this fear of something that I regard as extremely unlikely must be weighed against a guarantee that we will get out of Europol if we do not agree to this. So, frankly, I think it is balancing a very serious thing in one weight bowl with a very, very fleeting fantasy of terror in the other. I do not think it is the world of reality, as we know it in Danish politics, that this should happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144148	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144152	So, I do not know if it is a horror to me that there could be a majority other than those five parties; I really do not think so. But at least I have a fear that the reservation of law will disappear. I would like to point that out, because I think that would be quite awful for the Danes, all of us, because then we are
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144223	In fact, it is one of the common features of today's debate that has been for the 'no' side, of which I have taken a little stumble, namely this fear of the Folketing. The Folketing is, of course, composed of the electorate to carry out the policy on behalf of the electorate. We now ask the electorate to delegate some power to the Folketing, and then one hears from members of the Honourable Things that it should be awful that one lets the Folketing decide about things that have legal effect in Denmark. No, it is not awful that the Danish Parliament decides in Denmark. And it is actually incredibly ironic to hear from the Danish People's Party, which has complained about the fear of the relocation of sovereignty, that suddenly it should be awful that the Folketing decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144303	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144304	I think I'm gonna have to defend the Constitution here. I think that the Constitution is sensible, and I think it is good that there is a section 20 of the Constitution which says that if we are to give up greater sovereignty, there must be either a 5/6 majority in the Folketing or a referendum. But I understand that the speaker is a little critical of the constitution on that point and believes that the whole power should lie in the Folketing. There we are so different, I support the Basic Law opposite the speaker. But, by the way, what I wanted to ask was something quite different. It almost sounded as if the radical rapporteur was advocating a referendum that could not take place at all. Among other things, the rapporteur said that asylum and immigration would be ideal for European cooperation. But the Radicals have therefore signed a declaration which states, and I would like to read it out: 'This means that the parties to the agreement will not support the election of asylum and immigration acts, which Denmark is currently outside. • Not going to support • and it is whether there is a referendum or not; there may be enough referendums, the Radical Left will not support it. Do we agree that if we vote 'yes' on 3 December, it will stand here by force? The Radicals will not support the issue of asylum and immigration coming under the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144425	Thank you. There were several points in it, something about the Constitution and something about the current vote • I will concentrate on the latter. It is true that we, on the radical side, have always been pleased with the cooperation of the European Union. We really would have liked to have lifted the reservation of law. We think it is a step forward that we come to the vote we are going to take now, and in this respect we have accepted that it is not about paragraphs 78 and 79, it is about asylum and immigration policy. Yes, we have accepted that in order to have the vote we have now had. As far as the basic law is concerned, I saw it mostly as polemical.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144457	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144459	Yes, we have accepted an agreement which is totally contrary to what we otherwise travel around the country and say we are in favour of; what we are talking about, we are in favour of, we have accepted an agreement which is contrary to it. And I guess it's not just until the next election, but actually almost forever. I am not going to use the term for when the sun burns out, I cannot predict that far, but I can predict that there will probably be a while before a single member of the Social Democratic Party, a single member of the Left or a single member of the Conservative People's Party is required to form a majority in the Folketing. So for such a long time the Radical Left has committed itself to working against what we are talking about. Isn't that a little weird?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144541	Thank you. It is fantastic to have a chance here to have a vote on, among other things. Europol and the 22 other acts of which we are very interested in Denmark can continue to be a member, in other words, for Europol, and enter into the other acts. What we are getting here is therefore a scenario in which we avoid slipping out of Europol, which is a key tool for preventing cross-border crime and which is widely used by the Danish police to ensure the safety and security of all of us. The alternative is an uncertain and dangerous course out there, where we simply have less chance of doing things, for example. Police investigation and influence our own lives. It is precisely in this light that we have accepted this agreement; it is very much working for both the radical interests and the Danish interests and the interests of the police that we enter into this agreement. And to present it as if by doing so we are working against ourselves, since we are now promoting our own interests, I think that is controversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144637	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144639	Thank you. I would like to congratulate the Radical Left. I have always been impressed by their high profile in the area of legal certainty. There we have been in agreement on quite a number of issues. That is why I am also surprised that this is something we have not talked about so much yet today that there is an opt-out of a number of legal acts, among others. the victim directive, the legal aid directive, the directive on the right to interpretation and translation services in criminal proceedings, etc. These are things that I think are part of if we are to talk about making the system work. These are also things that both the Lawyer Society and the Institute for Human Rights have criticised are not included if you are going to have a package. What on earth has happened to the Radical Left since they have accepted that these should not be included in the package? Can the rapporteur tell us a little about the background to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144739	Well, my answer is kind of like what I gave to Søren Søndergaard, namely that we are dealing with an electoral system, and that is also true of the Radical Left. We think that the system here is very positive and we welcome it. We want to maintain Denmark's membership of Europol. We want to be on board the 22 pieces of legislation. Then Mr. Christian Juhl to the effect that we have not been able to include even more. It is, of course, a completely valid discussion, but that is just not what we are talking about today. What we are talking about today is whether we are interested in staying in Europol, so that Denmark can participate in police cooperation, and are we interested in the 22 legal acts that have been adopted yes or no? The Radical Left answers yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144814	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144817	Well, I ask, as I do, to see why the Radical Left is buying legal certainty, because legal certainty is there. I can mention a few more of these unelected acts. These are rejected acts, not the elected ones. That is why the Radical Left has opted out of acts which they used to use as the main argument to remove the reservation of law. I remember several debates with the Radicals, where they said that if we are to remove the reservation of law, it is because we would like to see the directive on the victims entered into force. It's been shattered in those debates. It seems quite striking that the Radicals then say: what we want most, we opt out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144900	Well, thank you. This is not an opt-out, I must insist on that. It is an option. We have here a positive vision and something we want to do. It is about Denmark being able to stay in Europol, and it is about 21 other acts that we would like to be included in, each of which has their different positive effects. We dare say that is a step forward, and we recommend that people vote yes to it. Here we go, sir. Christian Juhl and Enhedslisten say that there is everything else you could do. That is just not what we are going to vote on when we go to the urns on 3 December. I'll tell you what. But, of course, I agree that the victim directive is also a good thing. It just has nothing to do with it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144935	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020144937	Thank you. I would like to ask about the classical radical argument to sit at the table. I think that the rapporteur himself has used it today, and it is about the fact that when you talk about more EU, it is a key point for the Radicals that Denmark should sit at the table and have influence. If you look at the 27 countries with which we sit at the table, then I would like the rapporteur to confirm that it is not only Denmark that decides at that table, but also the other 27 countries. They are equally entitled to influence, and the results will also apply in Denmark. What do radicals think of the prospects for future legislation when you look at countries such as Poland, Ireland and Malta having a ban on abortion, that only a minority of EU countries have allowed marriages of the same sex and that we have countries such as Poland and Malta. Lithuania, which has a ban on so-called homosexual propaganda? Is it not worrying that they should also have an impact on some of our very progressive legislation in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145058	Thank you. But the dialogue taking place in the major European concert is, of course, marked by the various instruments participating in the orchestra. And there is no doubt that we have a very different view of, for example. Lithuanian legislation against homopropaganda, as I think the questioner mentioned. Nevertheless, I also believe that it is in the dialogue and in the cooperation that there is that we can actually move something and move some of the others we are talking to. I am not quite sure how this relates to the specific issue of participation in Europol and the 21 other acts. And there I think that if there is a real political question underneath that recital, I would ask the questioner to repeat it. I can only say that the fact that we share power, that we work together, I see it as a good way to promote our values.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145148	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145149	In fact, there was no underlying question. In other words, it is a sincere curiosity whether you actually believe that Denmark as one of 28 countries has such an impact that we can persuade all the countries to adopt a position as progressive and forward-looking as we have in Denmark, for example. when it comes to abortion, homosexual marriages, homosexual rights in general and freedom of expression. There are really major problems in those countries, and that will also apply directly in Denmark. Because with accession, i.e. with the option of these acts, there will be mutual recognition by the courts of those countries and their decisions could have a concrete impact on Danish citizens. Is it not at least in the specific cases that this would have to happen in a worrying way for the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145245	Thank you. Let me take the final point first: this will also enable Danish courts to help Danish citizens, for example. the countries which are being presented here. Because this is something that goes both ways. And by that I mean that a Danish court's ruling will also have legal effect in, for example. Lithuania in one case or another. So it goes both ways. I would also like to draw a little on my own experience when it comes to the extent to which Europe can be influenced. And I will do this on the basis of the climate negotiations, where I can see that the European mandate in climate negotiations is much more progressive than the least progressive countries in the European Union, but not as progressive as the most progressive ones. In other words, overall, we have succeeded in drawing the least progressive countries in the right direction. On the other hand, we have not come as far as we might wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145336	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners in the series of speeches here. We thank the rapporteur on the Radical Left and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Holger K. Nielsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145355	Crime is becoming increasingly cross-border, and that is why we need international cooperation in the fight against crime. Citizens and businesses are increasingly in contact across borders. It presents cross-border challenges, and it also requires cross-border solutions to those challenges. And that is basically what the bill we are discussing today is about. Of course, what is at the heart of Europol and the fact that Denmark is at risk of getting out of Europol if we do not vote for it in the referendum. As I have heard the debate, I think everyone agrees that this is the key issue. Everyone also agrees that it would be very bad if we were to get out of Europol, even so much so that the 'no' side promised that there would be a separate vote if it were to be a 'no' vote, because we would not risk going out anyway. What the debate has been running on, which is the claim from the 'no' side, is that we can have a parallel agreement and that it is as good as coming directly along as we will if we say 'yes' in the referendum. But to say that it is uncertain whether we can get the parallel agreement. It cannot be ruled out that we can do so, but it is uncertain. It's a detour to go. Why should we take the detour when we can come directly with us by voting 'yes'? I think it is in a sense undemocratic that we should leave it to the European Commission and other countries in the European Union to decide whether or not we can be part of Europol, instead of the Folketing doing so, or that the people here in Denmark do so. Is it not more democratic for us to make that decision ourselves, rather than putting it in the hands of the European Commission and other EU countries? Yes, I think it is. Then you argue that you want to join Europol, but if you vote 'yes', we get so much else bad in the bargain. But what's the bad thing we're gonna get with us? We have tried to get answers to this earlier today, and it has been almost impossible to get clear answers to it. Is this the restraining order directive, which means that a woman who gets beaten up by her boyfriend can easily take a restraining order with her to other EU countries? Is that bad? Is it the bankruptcy directives that make it easier to include debts in companies abroad? Is this better opportunities to combat trafficking in human beings and trafficking in women? Is that bad? Is it the inheritance directives that mean that when a Dane who may have an asset abroad dies and you have to inherit, it is Danish inheritance that applies? Is that bad? Is it a bad thing to be able to secure children better by divorce through this? I find it hard to see where the negative is. I simply find it difficult to see it and do not think that the arguments put forward by the 'no' side are consistent. It's completely, completely untenable. Then comes the next part of the argument. It is that we do not know what can happen in the long term, because those who jap parties are untrustworthy; they say so much and do something else. I agree that, historically, yes parties have not run with the truth before referendums. I can guarantee that I fully agree with that. But the new thing here is that you have tied each other into a very, very strong political agreement. This has been done once before, in 1993. Then everything was also said that we could not count on the 'yes' side, that they would simply abolish the derogations without a referendum. Actually, they could have done that formally, but they didn't. No one has ever dreamed of abolishing the Danish exceptions without a referendum. It has been one of the strongest political agreements we have seen in Danish politics. This has something to do with the fact that the EU is so controversial for all politicians here in Parliament, for the Minister for Justice, for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the undersigned, for almost everyone knows that if you get on a slippery slope in relation to the population, then there is a problem. And you're afraid of it. I can therefore guarantee that this fear of just running out of this is totally unfounded for the sole reason that the government and the leading power politicians are afraid of the reactions to it. And so there is no reason to hang too much in those longer - term, so - called negative consequences. I simply believe that there is no doubt whatsoever that there are huge advantages in voting in favour of this, and I very much hope that we can have a proper and rational discussion of it in the run-up to the referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145921	Thank you. Then we go to the series of questions, and the first one is Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145929	Thank you. And thank you for your clear words. I should like to ask the Socialist People's Party two questions. Will a transformation of the legal reservation and a yes to the electoral system legally mean that a majority in the Folketing can opt for other acts in the field of JHA and in the area of asylum and immigration policy? That's one. Secondly, will the Socialist People's Party accept the amendment on a referendum on asylum and immigration policy announced by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020145959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150003	The last thing I can confirm is that we will. With regard to the legal aspect, I would say that the same discussion took place in 1993. I remember how lawyers were dragged over from England, and I don't know what, and there were people who, like, went out and said that this is legally not a meter, and you can do anything afterwards, where the point was, of course, that it wasn't law, it was politics, and it is this too. This is politics, and that's why it's totally untenable to go out in a big legal exercise about these things. A political agreement has been made and it is as strong as anything can be. As I said earlier, there is, of course, the fact that the Left and the Social Democrats are terrified of going out in this. They're worried about it, and I think it's too bad. Because I really wanted more cooperation on asylum policy, so I think that is a pity. But the real truth of the iron industry is that it is a very, very sustainable political agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150110	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150112	Well, I can only hope for that. But when I ask about law, it is because we have seen these legal assessments before, and now I do have something that may not concern the debate today so much. But all the other things being equal, I remember the tobacco directive, which twice served as a mandate in the Committee on European Affairs, where lawyers considered that we still had to continue selling snuff while we were not allowed to sell it the third time. So every time we talk about this law and state law stuff, and so on, I'm thinking, what's right, and what's wrong? Political agreements are one thing, but in my view this will legally mean "and that is why I ask Holger K. Nielsen to confirm that a majority in the Folketing can change or can opt for some legal directives and some things in this area of the European Union at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150210	I can hardly see the connection with the tobacco directive, I must confess that, but okay. But I am well aware that the Danish People's Party will run this argument forever, but that's just not right. I mean, it doesn't hold up in the real world because there's been a political agreement that's as strong as anything can be. As I said before, in my opinion it is far too strong in terms of asylum policy, but it is infinitely strong, and this is largely due to the Danish People's Party. They're standing there flipping the Left with the whip, so you shouldn't be so unhappy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150251	Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150255	In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that he finds it difficult to see where the negative is. That's kind of funny, because in 1993 Mr. Holger K. Nielsen can see where the negative was in not having a legal reservation, but there is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen changed his point of view. I would therefore just like to ask you a few questions about why Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has changed his point of view. In 2008, when the SF began to change its attitude in this area, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's successor, Mr. Villy Søvndal, that this was due to: Many SFs think that it has been deeply unpleasant to stand with the extreme European right. We have never wanted nationalism, but have been linked to a nationalistic argument. It moved me too that I wanted to get out of that company. ▪ That's what Mr. Villy Søvndal to Information. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, whether it is the case that the Socialist People's Party has changed politics because the Socialist People's Party did not want to agitate for EU criticism when the Danish People's Party or other parties belonging to the extreme European right had the same view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150406	It has played a part, I have to say. And I must then admit that I do not understand that Enhedslisten does not have that reasoning. They also arm in arm with the extreme right in Europe, not only here in Denmark, but also in Europe. You want to close the borders, and you want to return to the fact that there are only national-state solutions to these matters. So it played a part for us at the time, but it's not the only thing. The crucial thing and the essential thing is that when we were sitting in Poul Nyrup's office there in October 1992 it's actually at this time 23 years ago we didn't know what it would turn out to be. If we looked at the Maastricht Treaty, to which we had said no, there were a number of objectives in the area of legal policy which were not, in fact, very concrete at the time. We were therefore very afraid that there would be a common public prosecutor, a common police force, common legal systems and so on. We were very afraid of that. But that is not the case. This is a pragmatic cooperation on cross-border problems, and to the extent that it becomes more than that, it is, of course, that we can opt it out. What is crucial in this bill is that it is an option model in which we can choose for ourselves what we want to be in. If there's something we don't want to be in, we won't sign up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150530	Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150534	It shows a certain amount of desperation in such a way as to turn the Enhedslisten into Hartkorn with the extreme European right, but it may be that Enhedslisten will come back to it. Perhaps I was not quite fair now when I quoted Mr. Villy Søvndal for this point of view, for he also mentioned two other things. It is, on the one hand, that the European Union represents a progressive alternative to the reactionary policy of the United States, and, on the other hand, we must ask whether the European Union's policy today is less reactionary than the policy represented by Barack Obama, whom I understand there in the Socialist People's Party, is a certain pleasure in quoting. And it is, on the one hand, the enlargement to include the ten countries in 2004, when I have to ask the rapporteur whether enlargement to include the ten new mainly Eastern European countries has led to a policy in Europe that is more cheerful of the Socialist People's Party, in line with the debate that Enhedslisten has raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150619	Wow, that's some very difficult questions to answer in one minute. I'll tell you what. Those are fairly complex questions. As far as Eastern Europe is concerned, we supported eastward enlargement primarily for security policy reasons, because it was important to bring Europe together after the fall of the wall. This has been the decisive factor, and in reality it has been a success in many ways. If you look at how Eastern Europe has developed, how, after all, it has been integrated into a European economy at a time when it could have gone completely wrong, it has actually been a success. But it is true that there have been a lot of challenges and many problems that we have had to face because of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150701	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150707	Thank you. SF also has a fairly significant profile in terms of legal certainty, and it is of course a question of how to ensure legal certainty in a system where there are supranational decisions, especially when there are different legal cultures. What is the reason why the SF has not stood firm on what Holger K. Nielsen and others have said earlier in the debates is important if we are to have the reservation of law lifted, namely the acts which have been rejected?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150735	I almost feel like sending that question back to Mr. Christian Juhl. If we had chosen to do so, would that have meant that the Enhedslisten had voted in favour of this? Because I think that could be very interesting to clarify when you are so interested in why it is not included. Anyway, we would have liked to have some more things included, but that's the way it is. Unfortunately, we do not have as many mandates as we would have liked, and that gives us a certain limit when you sit and negotiate that sort of thing. We kind of thought that okay, it wasn't possible to get those things with, but the things that are we would have had more sensible things with, but okay, then we didn't. But the things that are there are, in fact, sensible and worth supporting and voting in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150826	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150829	If I had an ultimate opportunity to choose from either the chosen or the rejected, I would choose the legal certainty to embellish the EU's extreme lack of legal certainty, however, I would say to Holger K. Nielsen. Of the others, I would say: why take some things where legal certainty is forgotten? It doesn't look like SF. In other words, we shared in 1992 when the slogan was 'Holger and the wife say no to the Union', saying no to the Union, it was not just 'no' to parts of the Union. In 1993, the Enhedslisten changed the tune to: Holger and the madam say yes and the nurse. I'd say, what the hell is going on? Are there no principles in the SF anymore? Is it the case that when things change, we also have to adapt as slowly as possible? I mean, right here, you deliver things that you have given to the people. Holger K. Nielsen has helped to give the people a guarantee that they will be allowed to vote if we surrender sovereignty. Now he's about to remove it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020150934	Well, that's what we fought for. That was precisely the opportunity that Enhedslisten was against at the time. You were against it, after all, you voted against it in the 1993 referendum. After all, we were criticized by the fact that we had squandered ourselves to get these exceptions through. We went to the 1992 referendum and said that we would have a 'no' and we had a plan for what would happen if that were to be a 'no'. These were the exceptions to which the People's Movement against the European Union, moreover, said yes before the referendum, but did not dare to stand after the referendum. We went in and fought it through in quite tough negotiations with Poul Nyrup Rasmussen. I remember it clearly, because it was exactly 23 years ago in these days. But then we got the referendum in 1993. Who was against? It was the Enhedslisten. It was sir. Christian Juhl, sir. Søren Søndergaard and Jens Peter Bonde, all those who had actually said that it would be very reasonable for us to have these exceptions. So the fact that people are now talking nicely about the exceptions is not something I can take very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151040	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151044	I'd like to congratulate Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen to be able to get some generals to bear an amazingly strong conclusion. So, generals on cross-border crime bear a conclusion on mutual recognition. But what is the context? I don't understand. We know that a lot of drug trafficking has come through Turkey historically. Going, sir. Does K. Nielsen also advocate mutual recognition of judgments in the case of Turkey? Is that sir? Holger K. Nielsen's target? Does this mean that crime is cross-border, that we should then recognise any sentence around the world and extradite citizens to be prosecuted there? I simply do not understand the connection between, on the one hand, the wish to combat cross-border crime, I think most people will, and on the other hand, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's conclusion is that we must therefore also make mutual recognition where we have to accept a lot that we do not really support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151146	Listen, there is no question that we are going to have to accept judgments from other countries in general. It's not a question of that. It is, of course, very limited in relation to the issues which are included in these directives. Now the Enhedslisten makes it sound as if it suddenly becomes judgments and decisions from Bulgaria and Romania that come into Denmark and will be in control of Denmark in all kinds of areas. That is not the case. What we think is crucial is that there will be better opportunities for investigation, that the police will have better opportunities to work together and they will do so if we say yes in the referendum and that there is also, for example, that there will be an increase in the number of police officers working together. about bankruptcy legislation becomes the opportunity to come after the bandits who try to cheat by moving to another country. I think this is important because it is one of the things that has been a lot about, that is, that there are people who speculate that there are different legal systems in different countries. The fact that you have better chances of getting rid of it is an advantage to me if you want to fight crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151302	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151304	That is a completely unclear answer. Well, sir. Holger K. Nielsen did not give a clear answer on whether Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is in favour of mutual recognition with Turkey? For example, it will. say that if Turkish judgments say that you have to do searches in certain occasions in Denmark, then the police should just effect it without it having to be approved by a Danish court. Or what about surveillance for that matter? It takes so little more, but in principle. Mr. Mr Nielsen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151351	I do not understand why Turkey should be involved in this. This has nothing to do with Turkey. It is totally irrelevant to involve Turkey in a discussion that the European Union will have better judicial cooperation. So I don't get the sound of that, sir. Søren Søndergaard suddenly involves it. What is at stake here is that in a number of different areas of investigation, police cooperation and judicial cooperation, closer cooperation is being established, more flexible cooperation, precisely in order to combat cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151434	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151441	Well, SF and Enhedslisten usually fight lovingly with each other, but we also usually agree on one thing in the field of justice. And that is that when you fight crime and terrorism, you have to do it with everything you have, but the legal certainty of the citizens must be intact. It is simply such a basic premise that our parties have divided into virtually every case that I can think of at all. That is why I cannot understand why the SF is no longer concerned about mutual recognition. It may well be that in the SF you have chosen that it is a bad thing you have to cut off, but I cannot understand why you are not more honestly concerned. Because it is not true that it is limited. It is the case that we remove the reservation of law, and the courts of other EU countries will also be able to take decisions on searches and seizures in Denmark, divorces, maintenance obligations, parental authority and wage claims in bankruptcy. All these things will be possible for Danish citizens without knowing the guarantees of legal certainty. Aren't you just a little worried about SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151603	We are, of course, aware of the issues raised by Enhedslisten, that is clear. But what is the challenge here is that, on the one hand, you have different legal systems in the different countries. On the other hand, I assume that we do not think that Enhedslisten should have harmonised, so you would really have a federation, a United States of Europe and also different laws in different areas, and that is OK enough. On the other hand, we must be able to deal with the fact that there are people who are speculating on exploiting these differences, and we can do this by having a more effective investigation and a more efficient police and courts that can function more effectively in a way that will enable the bandits who do so to be reached. There we can always discuss whether there are things that, if I may say so, could be handled differently. However, we are quite satisfied with the way in which this is described in the legislative acts that we have to adopt here, and we are absolutely convinced that it will strengthen the possibilities of combating cross-border crime without compromising legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151723	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151725	The last one, sir. Holger K. Nielsen said, I simply do not understand. Because it is a fact that in a number of areas the legal certainty of Danish citizens will be impaired, because courts in other countries which have less legal certainty than Denmark and which have been convicted on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights, that is to say, Italy was sentenced 18 times last year at the European Court of Human Rights for lack of access to a fair trial, will be able to take decisions that apply directly to Danish citizens. We have seen the example of the European Arrest Warrants, where their own nationals are being extradited to other countries for trivial matters. Don't the tracks just scare a little bit there? Thinks sir. Does K. Nielsen really believe that things are suddenly getting better and that legal certainty is suddenly being improved?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151819	No, I mean, we haven't claimed that legal certainty will be improved by this. We didn't say that. We have said that the challenge is to have a more effective investigation of crime. I guess that's what Enhedslisten thinks is a challenge or what? I assume that Enhedslisten also believes that it is actually important that we get to the criminals, but that at the same time guarantees of legal certainty are maintained. But we never said that this would improve legal certainty, we did not say so. What we have said is that, in a very difficult situation with different legal systems, there will be better opportunities to get hold of the bandits who speculate in the different legal systems without compromising legal certainty. That's the challenge, and I think that's actually solved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151906	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners in the line, and we thank the SF rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next is from the Conservative People's Party, and that's Mr. Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020151921	I consider myself to be a Eurosceptic and should I take a stand on the basis of the overall question of whether or not I want more or less the European Union alone, then I would probably also vote against it in the forthcoming referendum and the draft law here. Because I do not want the European Union to decide more about Denmark as such. I therefore understand very well that the opponents are numerous, and I have every respect for the patriotism and the desire for independence for Denmark, which is behind it for most people, I think. But when I have read in concrete terms what this bill is about and what it is that we are going to a referendum on 3 December, then I have found it very difficult to see what it was that I was supposed to be against. Because what we are voting on is clearly in favour of the Danes. It is Europol, and then it is a series of harmless acts which benefit the Danes and which strengthen the Danes' rights. The most important thing, of course, is that we should continue to be part of Europol, European police cooperation, so that the Danish police can obtain information about foreign criminals collected by the police of other European countries. We are in Europol today, but are going out because of a Treaty amendment if we do not elect Europol in the referendum and with the bill. Then there are 22 other acts that we have chosen to include in the referendum and, as I said, these are quite harmless acts. For example, if a Danish woman's violent ex-girlfriend has been sentenced to a restraining order before a Danish court, the restraining order applies in the rest of the EU. So if the woman moves to Germany, for example, she's still protected. It is quite incomprehensible to me that some people may think that this is a bad idea and think that it is wrong for us to include it in the agreement and in the referendum. It is therefore for the clear benefit of the Danes, perhaps just apart from the criminals of them. The other legal acts are also, for example, that Danish companies can obtain any claims they have from foreign companies or that there will be severe penalties for trafficking in human beings throughout the EU. It is to the clear benefit of Denmark compared to some major problems of trafficking in human beings with which we are currently tumbling. So these are some pieces of legislation that even I, as a Eurosceptic, have to say I find it difficult to understand one can be against. And the opponents are not, of course, involved in a specific debate on the legal acts on which the vote is based. Many of us here today have tried to get the opponents to answer what they have against the specific legal acts that we have to take a position on and have not really received an answer. We have been told that we can, of course, just make parallel agreements instead, but we have not heard anyone specifically go in with a criticism of the legal acts on which we are going to vote. That is because there is not much to criticize about them. There's not much to have your resistance in. Instead, I think it is particularly trying to turn the vote into a question of foreign policy, which is why I would like to reiterate and guarantee that in the forthcoming vote here we will not vote to allow the European Union to decide on our asylum and immigration policy. On the contrary, it is explicitly stated in the voting base that asylum and immigration policy does not change, I repeat: do not change and do not become an EU concern. The issue of parallel agreements is quite important because it is, after all, a main argument on the part of the opponents, namely that we can just make parallel agreements in all areas, that is, with regard to all 22 legislative acts plus Europol, there we can just make a parallel agreement. There is little evidence for this when you look at how difficult it has been in the past to have parallel agreements, and it is also logical that you want to be involved in cooperation, it is easier to join the cooperation rather than try to create parallel agreements. I guess everyone can understand that. You are welcome to join the parties in the Conservative People's Party, i.e. to make some parallel agreement where you are allowed to come, but it is easier if you want to participate in things that are going on in the Conservative People's Party, so to join the Conservative People's Party. In the same way, the legal acts that we are going to vote on here are the ones that we are going to vote on. If you want to be part of them, it is easy to join them. Of course it is possible to make a whole lot of parallel agreements, but it will be extremely difficult, and there is really no good argument for doing so when you can simply endorse the acts. Against this background, the Conservative People's Party recommends that we vote in favour of the bill and, of course, that we vote in favour in the referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152429	Thank you. We go to the series of questions, and the first one is Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152435	I am not going to interfere with how much reason there is for partying in the Conservative People's Party, but I am glad that the mood is still being maintained. Now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov himself both in an earlier speech and here in the debate the question of restraining the debate. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, about Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is aware that the problem discussed in the Committee on European Affairs is that a person who has been granted a restraining order against seeking, for example, a job. An ex-wife must be told, when the ex-wife moves to another country, that he has moved to the other country, has been solved. If it has not been resolved, I am not sure how good an idea it is to know that it is, for example. has beaten his or her spouse, is told that he or she can now find her in Germany or Austria, or how do I know. But is the rapporteur aware that this problem has been resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152530	No, I'm not familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152533	Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152535	Does the rapporteur not think that it would be sensible for the rapporteur to examine such things before the rapporteur praised such a provision, provided, of course, that the rapporteur agrees with you that it is not very appropriate for a violent spouse to know where to find his ex-wife?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152557	I certainly believe that this is a question to which I would also like to hear the answer. However, I do not think that it is a good idea that a restraining order imposed in a Danish court for the benefit of a Danish woman or man should also apply if this Danish woman or man moves to Germany, and that is why I think it is a good idea that we have that legal act and that we have opted for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152619	Then it's Christian Juhl next.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152624	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov mentioned Europol. Is he not at all nervous that we should now vote without knowing what regime the negotiations on Europol will end up with? Probably we will not even know the result until 3 December, which means that we must say yes or no to something we do not know what will happen when we negotiate those things. In addition to that, I would like to ask something: if the Danes are going to say no, because they think this seems too messy and too insecure from the yes side, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov saw that the EU is interested in having a Helle here and not having an agreement with Denmark on Europol, if Denmark so wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152717	I have no particular reason to believe that in the future Europol will have a shape for which we should be concerned. If sir... Christian Juhl has some particular scenarios, which he fears, I would like to hear about them, but I have not heard of any likely scenarios for Europol's future design, which I should be concerned about. I certainly do not think anyone is interested in Denmark becoming a hamlet for criminals, and I assume that the question refers to the fact that it must then be assumed that the countries are interested in the fact that we will also have parallel agreements on Europol, among other things, if I understand the question correctly. I think there is, but we will not have the same access to Europol if we are not there. Here we can look at Norway, which has some kind of parallel agreement, but which does not have direct access to the Europol database and therefore has to request it. Every time they want some information, they must request it; they cannot enter the database themselves. And that is a problem because it simply means that the information is not as easily accessible to the Norwegian police as it is to the Danish police, who have an advantage in being involved in Europol cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152821	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152823	I am thinking both of the fact that we are moving from an intergovernmental cooperation agreement, in which the countries have a certain influence, to a supranational agreement. There is a significant difference. There are a number of things I would like to discuss with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov on Europol and the security of, for example, Europol. Personal data and stuff like that. We'll take that another day. I would like to ask: when you say Europol plus 22 legislative acts plus all future legislative acts, except for asylum and refugees, we are just giving a political guarantee for what is the reason why you do not include the political guarantee in the draft law, so we can see that this is legally binding and not just some politicians who have made a corridor agreement? I do not believe that the political agreement can last until the sun burns out. I think a law might help to say something, but you haven't dared to say why?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020152930	I believe that the guarantee that immigration and asylum policy will not become an EU concern is stronger by having a political agreement than by having written it into the law. So, we have been able to see that the agreements that have been in place have lasted for a very long time, and I also think that Holger K. Nielsen explained very sensibly before how dangerous it would be for the political parties to break such a guarantee to the Danish people that we are now doing here, where we are telling them that it will not be an EU matter to determine Denmark's immigration and asylum policy. In any case, as far as I am concerned, it would almost be above my dead body as a politician that we should break such an agreement. I would be extremely opposed to this, and I would be extremely opposed to giving that area to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153017	Then it's Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153021	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur's position on the procedure for surrendering sovereignty. Because it is the case that you abolish the reservation of law, it will be left to a majority of the Folketing or a majority of the European Committee of the Regions to decide on the surrender of Danish sovereignty. But that is not so much the opinion on the issue itself. I would like to ask the rapporteur what initiatives or ideas the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have in connection with such a procedure to ensure a continued public debate involving citizens in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153101	It is of course important to state that it is in a limited area that further agreements can be concluded, in other words in the field of justice and home affairs. It is not the case that we were suddenly able to join the euro, join a common European army or other terrible things. So it is in quite limited areas that remind us of the things that we now agree with. It is, for example, about disputes between companies in the European Union and deciding which courts and the law of which country should be applicable in such situations, including cases in the field of family law, in relation to inheritance, etc. Is Danish law or German law applicable? These are the sort of decisions that we would be able to endorse in the future and which remind us of what we now support. It is just to make it clear to people who are involved that it is not a question of us being able, in future, to give up sovereignty in all areas without limit. I think it is very important that we have a debate in the future. I don't know if I have any special ideas for that, but I'm sure there'll be a lot of attention to it. And I am sure that both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party will be able to raise those debates and protest violently should a whole lot of sovereignty be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153209	Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153212	Thank you for your reply and also thank you for recognising that joining the euro would be a terrible thing. I agree with the rapporteur on this. Does the rapporteur recognise that in the new process of moving from the granting of sovereignty in a referendum to the doing so in a committee procedure, it will be much more difficult to have a public debate on those issues, whether large or small, and therefore that citizen involvement will also be much smaller than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153254	Yes, I would like to admit that, if you have a referendum, it will, of course, result in a major public debate. I must also say that, since these are such limited areas that we are able to join in the future, there may not be any need for such a huge public debate, for example if we are to agree to some directive that small claims for online payments should be more easily recovered than they are today. So I'm not so worried about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153327	Then it's Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153331	Thank you. The rapporteur said just now that it was a clear advantage for the Danes to join the electoral system and to abolish the reservation of law and that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has heard no criticism of the individual acts, so I would like to ask about some of the individual acts that we are very sceptical about in the Enhedslisten. That is, for example, the case. the PNR directive that is on the way. Conservatives have stood down here in the Chamber and said very clearly that if it were to be introduced in Denmark, a court order would have to be required for that information to be provided. It would certainly be dead if it were to be a yes on 3 December. It would then be possible to obtain all information about air passengers and innocent citizens without a warrant. The Investigation Order Directive, which is a mutual recognition of courts, means that courts in, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Federal Republic of Germany. Romania can make decisions about the seizure of Danish property or searches in Danish homes. Now I have run out of time, but I can list some more when I get one more brief comment. Now I can hear sir. Rasmus Jarlov's comments on the individual directives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153451	I am also sorry that I may have offended the Enhedslisten before. It is true that Enhedslisten raised some concerns in the previous debate too, so I regret that I did not acknowledge that in my speech. In relation to access to information on air passengers, I can understand if there is such legal concern about whether or not we sit and monitor how citizens fly around the world. I have to admit that I myself, as an air passenger, have always taken the view, and I have traveled relatively much, that it was probably some information that could be relatively easy for the authorities. Well, it's not exactly secret when you go down through a passport check and buy a plane ticket, etc. where you go. So I don't see it as such a major legal problem. I have to admit that. Compared to the latter, I just couldn't hear it exactly. I do not know whether Pernille Skipper will again ask what was to be seized, so I cannot just repeat that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153554	You can now. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153558	I would like to say that, firstly, the Conservatives have changed their position, because the Conservatives, when we talked about it at the end of this Chamber, thought that providing not only where you fly around, but also payment information, food information, baggage information, information about fellow travellers, etc., was a legal problem if no court order was required. Conservatives have changed their minds. I understand, sir. Rasmus Jarlov could not hear what I said before, because the problem is that we do not know what is to be seized. Courts in other countries will be given the opportunity to decide on the basis of their rules on the seizure of Danish property, searches in Danish homes, without Danish courts coming in and approving it beforehand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153654	I think that these are some relevant discussions that Enhedslisten opens up, and we must also take them subsequently in relation to the investigation. In general terms, I would like to say that with this draft law, the legal position of criminals is becoming worse, in other words, it will be easier for the police in Europe to investigate crime. It will also be easier to access information on the conduct of criminals in other countries. We must recognise that this is the way it is. After all, we do so with open eyes because we know that there is a lot of crime that is cross-border. I would say that the safest way to ensure that you are not punished by courts or police from other countries is by not committing crime in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153743	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153752	I got it, sir. Rasmus Jarlov urged people who wanted to know what happened in the Conservative People's Party to join. Mads Holger took that call, and then he found out what happened, and then he turned himself out. Well, that's kind of the point here, or maybe the difference, because when he joined, he could sign up again. But the whole problem with what we are discussing here is that if you have first joined, there is no way out. It is not possible to get out of a legal act if one has joined it, even if the Court goes in and gives it a very different content than was actually expected. And we have seen in other areas that the Court of Justice has done so. So isn't it a very bad comparison when you compare these acts with Mads Holger? I would then like to ask the rapporteur what was the problem with a Norwegian regime in relation to Europol. I understood that they didn't have access to everything and that it was supposed to cause some problems. I don't know if sir. Rasmus Jarlov could elaborate more precisely on what he thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020153900	I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard said it himself very well. It's a really bad comparison if you compare these acts with Mads Holger, so I don't think I'm going to go further into that parallel either. In relation to Norway's agreement with Europol, the problem is that they do not have as good access to the information in Europol's information database as the Danish police or other European countries' police have. Then I heard Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard said before that it must be because they do not need it as much as they do that they seek less. But I just don't think it is. I think the thing is that when the Norwegian police are looking for these c. 2,000 times a year, as I remember it as, and the Danish police seek 70,000 times a year as one of the police forces in Europe who seek the most, it is simply because we benefit from it and because it is easier for us than it is for the Norwegian police. I also think the Norwegian police would be pleased if they had an as good approach to information as the Danish police have. It would simply make it easier to seek and obtain information and thus combat cross-border crime • and I regard that as a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154005	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154007	Well, I think the fact that the Danish police are looking for 70,000 times is interesting and that the Danish police account for 19 per cent. of all searches in Europol's register, while Denmark is 1%. of the population of the European Union. That's a little interesting. We must, of course, botanize in how it can be, and we must, in any case, botanise in it, if that does not mean that the fight against crime goes significantly better in Denmark than elsewhere. For example, does it work? 35 times better than in Norway? And is it not true that we have been informed that Norway can actually have access to Europol's register in a matter of urgency in a matter of minutes? Isn't that right? It is certainly the Norwegian embassy that has informed us, so I assume that is correct. Is a few minutes too long?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154104	Well, I'm not such a witness of truth as to whether it's true what the Norwegian embassy has said. In general, I think that when you ask questions, it should preferably be about what my position is and not whether I can confirm what other people have said. I always assume that people are basically telling the truth when they say something. But I do not know if it is a problem that the Danish police are working hard to use this information search in Europol's database. I don't see any major problem in that. I assume that the Danish police do so because they believe that it strengthens their fight against crime, not because they think it is funny or they use it as entertainment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154142	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners on the list. We are grateful to the rapporteur and then we move on in the rapporteur's line. That is Sjúrður Skaale for, and then we must be careful to pronounce it right, Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154205	Thank you. The pronunciation was okay. It gets better with the years. As I said in a question before today, if I had the right to vote in Denmark on 3 December, I would have voted in favour of this proposal. I think that this is a good idea on the whole, and that gives Denmark greater security, I believe. But there are some complications with regard to the Kingdom community on this issue in this referendum. For it has always been the case that since Greenland voted out of the EC at the time 30 years ago, all referendums in Denmark on the EU have included only Danish voters. It has been possible to do this because the areas where sovereignty has been given to the European Union have concerned areas where the Faroe Islands and Greenland have their own home rule. This means that nothing has been sent to Brussels on behalf of some others, only on behalf of Danish voters and Danish authorities. The four Danish reservations, i.e. citizenship of the Union, currency, defence and justice policy, have been outside Denmark's membership, and these are precisely the areas in which we are common throughout the Kingdom community about things. It would be absurd for the Faroe Islands and Greenland to vote on some things for which we ourselves have the power. Now you go further. Now we are going into the areas which are common to the whole Kingdom of Denmark. After all, the area of justice is common to both Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and that is the area that we are now talking about to be sent to the European Union. So it's a little complicated. In 2014, I asked the former Minister of Justice Mette Frederiksen about how to deal with this, and she replied as follows: Regardless of whether the reservation in its entirety is lifted or whether this is simply transformed into an option scheme, the scenario could potentially arise that a Danish law in its entirety is repealed, i.e. also on behalf of the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In this case, therefore, there may be a need to ensure that the legal situation in the Faroe Islands and Greenland is not affected, and then she says, for example, by the Danish Parliament adopting a law that applies exclusively to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Since then, I have asked the new Minister for Justice the same question, that is, how he is dealing with these things, and it seems that there is agreement in the system that Denmark cannot send things to Brussels on behalf of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which has not voted on this which did not wish to do so. Therefore, the current Minister of Justice says that we will probably see such a scenario, if you give more areas to Brussels in this area, that then the Folketing is still away legislator in this area, but only legislator in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. It seems a little strange that you sit here and deal with a bill that you have no influence on yourself because you have submitted it to Brussels, but you only have the legislative power in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland. That is then the scenario that the Minister of Justice himself has said may arise. Alternatively, the areas can be taken over by the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I guess it's the most obvious thing to do. This problem is something that the People's Movement against the European Union has promoted in the debate, and they have argued that the Faroese and Greenlanders should therefore vote on it here. There may be good reasons for this in principle, but I myself do not think we should do so, because it is quite clear that Denmark and the Faroe Islands are growing apart when it comes to the development of the European Union. Although we have not yet touched on the four key areas, it is the case that we have had very great conflicts in, for example, the Middle East. fishing. The Faroe Islands have been boycotted by the EU and therefore also by Denmark. Danish ports have been closed to Faroese ships because they have grown apart. The Faroe Islands have a position and Denmark has a different position and Denmark is bound by the EU. We have also had a situation and still have it away where Denmark is not allowed to sell food to Russia. The Faroe Islands are free to do so. It is very important for us in the Faroe Islands that we are allowed to pursue our own interests, and I think it is exemplary that we have done so well so far, and that Denmark does not interfere in our trade policy, in our fisheries policy, and that we, for example, should. continue to be allowed to trade with Russia, although Denmark cannot do so when it comes to food. We would very much like to avoid Denmark interfering in this, which is why I also believe that we should refrain from interfering in what Denmark is doing in this area, and that is why I do not think we should vote because if we voted, even if there was a majority in the Faroe Islands who voted 'no' and a majority in Denmark who voted 'yes', it became 'yes', and then we were obliged by the resolution, even if we did not want to. Therefore, it is best that we stay outside and recognise that when it comes to the European Union, the Faroe Islands and Denmark simply grow in different directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154734	Thank you. There's a questioner, and this is Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154744	I note that the rapporteur mentions Greenland a number of times, while mentioning the conditions in the Faroe Islands. In this context, Greenland has a slightly different role vis-à-vis the EU in relation to the Faroe Islands. Greenland has an OCT status vis-à-vis the EU because we resigned from the EC at the time. It also means that Greenland has a different kind of relationship with the European Union. Regardless of the legal reservation and regardless of how Denmark finds itself in this situation, Greenland's role in itself towards the EU will not change, and thus Denmark's own role in the area of justice will probably not change. I would just like to ask why Greenland is being mentioned so much in this context, when our roles with regard to the European Union are very different.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154838	It may have been a mistake, but it is something that the People's Movement against the European Union has made a great deal of noise. There has been a parallel argument and mention of Greenland and the Faroe Islands together. When you enter this opt-in system, it may well happen that in Denmark you decide to send areas to Brussels, which you are currently managing on behalf of Greenland. It can happen easily. I should just like to draw your attention to the problem with this speech, and I hope that the government is aware of this, so that a decision cannot be taken over the head of the Faroese people without having asked them. That is why we need to have a system if we send more areas to Brussels, where Denmark becomes a legislator on behalf of the Faroe Islands and has legislative power in the Faroe Islands or Greenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154925	Aleqa Hammond? Apostates. Then there are no more questioners in the series of speeches, and we thank the rapporteur. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and I give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020154937	Thank you for the many speeches that have been made and for a good debate. I think it has been a debate that could be expected in several ways. First of all, it has been a debate that could be expected, because of course a clear majority of the parliamentary parties for a vote in favour of the bill. It is a majority consisting of the five parties to the agreement that are together and then the alternative, which has also chosen to say yes to the proposal, even though they are not part of the parties to the agreement behind it. I really think it is a good thing that such a broad majority in the Folketing is behind the decision to convert the reservation of the law into an electoral system. After all, it is one of the other rather predictable debates that came, namely what we are actually doing with the bill. In fact, we are doing exactly what the title of the bill says. We are transforming a legal reservation into an opt-in system in which, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said, will be Denmark who chooses what it is we want to participate in or not participate in. So there is a clear majority in favour of adopting the proposal, but unfortunately not clear enough to be able to comply with the words of the Constitution on surrender of sovereignty, and whether it be so or not, we have agreed with each other quite from the national compromise that this was an area which, if it were to be amended, would take place in a referendum, and therefore it will also be the case that, after we have, hopefully, adopted the draft law after the second and third readings in mid-November, following the provisions of the Constitution, it will pass into a referendum which will take place on 3 December. That's excellent, that's the rules of the game, that's how we work. So what are we gonna do about the bill? Yes, we are actually doing the opposite of what many of the critics claim, because with the bill here we are taking the competence back to Denmark, and then it is actually the Danish Parliament that is starting to decide what we can participate in instead of as it is today. As it is today, we are figuratively outside the doors, and if we want to participate in one or more of the areas that have an impact on the effective fight against crime, it is important for us to help citizens who are in trouble to understand whether it is easy for employees and businesses, we must knock on the door, and then the other countries can choose to unlock the door and let Denmark into the area we would like to enter through a so-called parallel agreement. So we're outside and dependent on the others. By changing our legal reservation into an opt-in system, it is the Danish Parliament, the Danes, the Danish people who get the keys in their hands and the right to decide whether we want to open the door, because then it is our responsibility, it is our right to choose from some very specific legal acts in which areas Denmark should work with the others. What we take a position on when we use the key we get in hand and unlock the door and step in is the concrete act that it looks like at the time we go in. If later changes are made to the legislation, we can choose from the Danish side whether we will follow the change or whether we will remain standing. This may ultimately mean that the others go further and say that the act is the only one left to us, why it has no effect, but we must then take a position on that at the time. But we are not forced to go further than what we take a position on at the time when we choose to say yes. So it will be the Danish Parliament, ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber, which will have the opportunity to decide whether or not to join Denmark. And I must say quite frankly that I do not understand the distrust that exists with colleagues here, the distrust that Enhedslisten, as the Danish People's Party, which the Liberal Alliance shows by saying: No, we dare not leave it to the Danish Parliament to decide whether or not to join. It is much, much better that we leave it to Brussels, leaving it to the other EU countries to decide whether or not we want to come knocking and asking for a parallel agreement. I simply do not understand the idea that it is better for us to rely on the other EU countries if we want to participate in cooperation than for us to have the opportunity to take the decision ourselves. The government's position is clear: we want competence to go back to Denmark, we want it to be us who are allowed to decide how we cooperate, in which areas we cooperate. It is clear that, in some of the areas, this means that we will also give up sovereignty in relation to the fact that we are involved in decisions taken jointly. That is why we have a vote, because there is a surrender of sovereignty. We have then made it very clear what is to be voted on, and if the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and others had been involved since the agreement was concluded, under the then Prime Minister, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, it would clearly be possible to see the 22 acts that were elected, the 10 acts that were rejected, on the Prime Minister's website, where they have been open to everyone. Therefore, I really think that one of the most surprising things that was said in an otherwise expected debate was when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said that none of the 22 pieces of legislation wants the Danish People's Party to join in the fight against child abuse, no fight against trafficking in women, no fight against cybercrime, no protection of small companies that have been caught up in work abroad, no protection of employees' rights and the possibility of recovering employees' claims abroad more easily. I found that thought-provoking. What is happening is that we are included in legal acts in three categories: criminal law and police, civil and commercial law and family law. There we come along and work together in a number of different categories in these areas. In addition to that, it is for that reason that we really are now coming to a vote, Europol. It is also just to preempt Mrs Christina Egelund and her possible criticisms that I will just end with Europol instead of starting with it, just so that it is mentioned, so everyone is aware that there are other parts of the vote than Europol. But the reason why we have a vote now is that Europol is on the way to moving away from being an intergovernmental matter to being a supranational issue, and that means that if Denmark does not do anything, if we just sit still, as some people want, so that we just have to let things pass, then we will be sent outside the door of Europol. That is why we need to act, we need to act, and we now do this on the part of the government by bringing the bill and sending it to a referendum. It was a little bit about what we really are voting on. In fact, part of the debate has also been about what we are not voting on. I just want to state for myself and the government what we are not voting on. We are not voting on asylum and immigration policy, we are not voting here on Article 78 and Article 79, nor are we voting on a possible amendment to the Dublin Regulation, so that it would impose a compulsory distribution in relation to the reception of refugees and asylum seekers from the European Union. It is quite clear from the agreement on Denmark in Europol that if you have read it and read it and remember it, paragraph 5 states quite clearly that what is understood by the common asylum and immigration policy is Article 78 and Article 79. I do not understand the doubts that some people have had and that attempts have been made to create an uncertainty as to what it might cover up, because it has actually been put forward very openly and clearly from the start. So if you had read the conclusion of the agreement, you would know. It is also the case that it has emerged from the Prime Minister's speech in connection with the opening debate that, in addition to the reciprocal right of veto that has been agreed, it is the case that the Left has indicated that we will use our right of veto in such a way that, if we had to make a change, Denmark would have to participate either in Article 78 or Article 79 or in an amendment to the Dublin Regulation, which would mean that we would have to become part of a binding distribution of refugees, it would require a referendum in which the Danes were asked again. The same has been said by the Social Democrats, the Conservative People's Party, and we have indicated by the government that we intend to table an amendment which will make it quite clear from the comments that the rules will be forward-looking, so that it is also stated in the legislative text that a number of parties will manage their veto in such a way that a change which means that we should be involved in a common asylum and immigration policy would require a new referendum. There have been some different questions along the way, and I would like to say something to just some of them. First of all, to Mrs Bramsen: I fully agree with the comments that have been made that participation in an electoral system would mean better safeguarding of employees' rights. This is also why the LO, that 3F, that the FTF all supports that we choose an option system. It is, for example, when 3F stands and says that they can get their members' debts back more easily if there are common rules in this area. It may well be that there is a specific company that has then gone bankrupt and that there is nothing in that company to retrieve, but for those companies that may not have gone bankrupt, common rules in the field will help 3F and their members to get the money back. That is why the trade union movement has said so clearly that they support, and I think it is excellent that among other things. The Socialists, including the Left, have listened to what the trade union movement is saying in this area. In relation to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, I would like to say something, namely that the question that we are standing here today because of lack of due diligence must simply be based on a lack of knowledge of what the facts are in terms of being able to make a parallel agreement. At the moment, exactly how Europol is being transformed from intergovernmental to supranational is being negotiated and, before you know how Europol is being transformed, it makes no sense to talk about creating a parallel agreement. It is simply not possible to make a parallel agreement on something that is on the way to being changed. And that is why, when it comes to the claim that we have not exercised due diligence, either the current government or the previous government or the previous government, before it is simply a misunderstanding of the rules behind the European Union. It is the case that we have clearly considered that Denmark is best placed to be fully involved in Europol. It is an assessment that we have as a government, it is an assessment that the parties to the agreement have, in relation to how Denmark can best act, and I also think it is quite important to note that it is an assessment that the Norwegian Ministry of Justice also has on behalf of the Norwegian police, where they actually say quite openly that they would rather see that Norway was fully involved in Europol than that they were outside. I do not want a B membership of Europol. I want full and complete membership of Europol, so we are in it, both to bring the rapid information forward, but also to help us decide which way Europol is changing. The fact is that in all the areas where some Members of this Parliament have wanted a parallel agreement, it is like leaving it to all the others to decide which way the changes should take place, and then only afterwards could they see whether that was good enough or whether it was not good enough. It is also a little for Mrs Pernille Skipper and the whole question of how there is recognition of different family relationships or not. Firstly, if we come along in this area, what happens is that a Danish court's decision on parental responsibility or the rules of association will be something that the other EU countries must recognise. This means that in the case of a couple, for example. is homosexual, but having a child together where one moves and settles in another country, it will be the decisions of the Danish authorities that will also apply in that country. Can we then change how we in other countries view the cooperation that exists? I would say that it was first and foremost not a problem for either Sweden or Finland, which are involved in justice and home affairs, that they have their views locally, in Sweden and Finland, about how a family structure can be in relation, for example, to. some of the countries mentioned by Mrs Pernille Skipper. Secondly, I think that we are in a stronger position if we want to influence the other countries to have a more liberal attitude in the right sense of the word, understanding what a family can be if we are involved in the cooperation rather than if we are outside it. Sir. Søren Søndergaard says that it is a problem in itself if you move to supranational cooperation, because then it will be the European Court of Justice that decides disputes. Then I would just like to say that it is already the case today that, where appropriate, there may be a dispute over the parallel agreements that are intergovernmental, it is also the European Court of Justice that takes a decision. So there is no change in who should, if necessary, interpret an agreement, whether it is an intergovernmental arrangement, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard wants, or whether it is an optional arrangement, as I would like. In relation to Mrs Christina Egelund again, I would like to say that there was this question of the right of veto. I will come back to that in a moment, because I thought I had 20 minutes, but I can see that I only have 15 minutes in total, so I'm sorry I don't get the answer lately, but I hope there will be questions to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160456	Thanks to the Minister, and the first questioner is Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160502	Thank you. Yes, the Secretary of State has also had to wait a long time, so it must be the Secretary of State well blamed. I think it is a bit strange that the Foreign Minister should come here at the last minute with an amendment to the draft law that we have today, even while we are voting on it. There are people who have already been to vote in this vote, and now the government is coming up with an amendment. I'm not sure I think that's a good custom. But I just have to get the Minister of Foreign Affairs to confirm very briefly that 1) you can terminate a political agreement and 2) you can change the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160547	Yes, you can change the law. This can be done by a simple majority, and that is why I believe that the wish of some that a possible agreement on the referendum should be written into the legislation would be less binding than a political agreement. I am a member of a party which honours and stands by political agreements, including agreements made before I became a member of the Folketing, which, I believe, in relation to those sitting in the Chamber now, is longer than anyone else present. Nevertheless, we are honouring the agreements because we stand by the agreements that have been made. I missed sir. Holger K. Nielsen, and I'm sorry about that. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen helped to reach the national compromise at the time. That was before I joined the Folketing. Nevertheless, the Left as a party has, of course, stood by the national compromise and the agreement subsequently reached at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160645	Thank you for the answer, which was yes to both, and so I can also understand that the promise made by the Prime Minister that this promise of asylum and immigration policy applies until the sun burns out can in fact only be interpreted in such a way that it is the Prime Minister who is the sun. That means that when the Prime Minister is out, the promise no longer applies. That is why I have to ask the Foreign Minister: can the Foreign Minister not understand that the public has an interest not to delegate to a simple majority of the Folketing a power which the people have in Article 20 of the Constitution to participate in whether or not sovereignty should be given? Can't the Secretary of State understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160729	That was not a 'yes' to both, for I replied only to one of Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's question. So it must be such wishful thinking that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth like to guess what he had to hope that I would say in reply to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. The point is that we stand by the agreements that have been made. We stand by agreements which mean that if there is to be a change in asylum and immigration policy, if there is to be a change, so that the Dublin Regulation means a binding distribution of asylum seekers and refugees in Europe, then it requires a referendum. So, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's claim so far that this is the last time the Danes will vote on anything in the legal field is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160808	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160817	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I really found it extremely liberating that we made it very clear that this is, of course, a referendum, because it is a surrender of sovereignty, and also that the Minister started with all the other acts that did not concern Europol praise for it. There was just one last little curl missing, so that it would have been almost the full package that had been presented from the platform, and it is, of course, that the competence to surrender more sovereignty in the future will be transferred from the Danish population, which right now has its reservations, to a majority in the Folketing. That is to say, when new legislation comes in, yes, a majority in this Parliament will be able to give up sovereignty and not take it back again. The Foreign Minister couldn't understand why we weren't comfortable with it. I would say that I would be if a new parliamentary majority, elected by the Danish people, could think otherwise and take back power. Can the Foreign Minister not confirm that this is also what lies in the competences of a future majority, in other words to give up a power that other majorities cannot take back again?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020160935	When our predecessors in 1953 amended the Constitution, they introduced the possibility of surrendering sovereignty so that we could just participate in binding international cooperation. That option is now being used. That option is used to say: here are some areas where we would like to have the opportunity to choose. Those of us who helped to make the agreement have been very careful about what 22 acts we could clearly see together would be an improvement for the Danes that we participated in. That is why the 22 plus Europol have been elected, which is why the 10 have been elected from. If they are to be accepted at any time, if there is to be a change in any of the things in which we participate, or if there is to be a whole new piece of legislation, then it will be an issue to be submitted to the Folketing for a decision. I am quite sure that it is in the spirit of the Constitution. That is how it was conceived in 1953, and that is how it is implemented now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161032	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161035	That is absolutely correct, and the concern is enough for most people, not that the Folketing can make a decision by a general majority to participate, but that one cannot choose not to participate again. In other words, it is an opt-out system, it is not an opt-out system, and that means that if the Minister of Foreign Affairs now accedes to the 22 acts plus Europol, and I think a few others have already been promised, then it is not? Is it not true that when sovereignty is given on these 22 and future acts, even a majority in the Folketing will not be able to say: do you know what, we will not be in anyway, we will have some other rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161126	It will be the case that, in the areas where we have said yes, we are complying with the rules that we have then agreed to, and that is binding. It is true that it is the surrender of sovereignty and that is why we are talking about a referendum. That is also why you have to think carefully about what you say yes to. In the end, it will ultimately be the case that a majority in the Folketing or a majority of the Danes as a whole will be able to say: now we do not want to be involved in EU cooperation anymore, we want to get out of it. It will be the ultimate opportunity to do so if there is something you think is wrong in the direction that the European Union is moving. I have just come from London, where I visited my British colleague yesterday, and I would like to say that the debate is at least under way here, in relation to whether the theoretical possibility is to be used in order to withdraw. For now it is not only theoretical, it has even been established that there is an opportunity for countries to choose to come out. I think it would be foolish; I would advise against it. I think it is wise to go along with an opt-in scheme. Because what is happening is that instead of asking the others to participate in the cooperation we get here in the Folketing, the Danish people are allowed to choose which parts Denmark should be in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161237	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161246	Thank you. The Minister said that before you know where Europol ends, there is no need to apply for a parallel agreement. I think that's quite the way he said it; otherwise he'll have to correct me. Then I would like to ask whether one might just as well say that before one knows where Europol ends, there is no need to ask for a referendum, since we cannot really answer what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161309	Then I'm glad Christian Juhl asked. I am glad that Christian Juhl asked, because that is not what I said. I said that there is no possibility There is reason to be in Europol. There is also reason to be in Europol with the changes that are being talked about implementing Europol. There is no possibility of seeking a parallel agreement until there is clarity as to what it should be like. But I do not want a b-membership of Europol. I do not want the Enhedslisten model, where we have to stand outside and wait for the others to agree on what should be cooperation on. I want a model in which we are actively involved in binding international cooperation to find the best framework for how police cooperation in Europol can be beneficial, not just for Denmark, but for all European citizens, for all the countries working with Europol. It therefore requires us to be active and not to stand outside waiting to see what the others agree on. So it is not a question of whether it is necessary, it is simply a question of the fact that it is not possible to seek a parallel agreement. Nor do I think it is fair to seek. I think we should have full membership.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161411	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161414	That's not what the minister was trying to answer. That's why you hadn't made an application. Then they said it wasn't possible. No, it might be desirable. It may be that the people of Denmark think so, and then he has not shown due care. So let's say it wasn't possible. Could it not be said quite rightly that when it is not possible to know what Europol is going to be about the negotiations are going on at the moment, there is no need for a referendum either, because then you cannot answer the people on what they are voting on? That's more like the question I'm asking. You get the cat in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161454	Now I'm just reading the story of the Rope and Cat in the sack for my youngest son, and it's quite entertaining. So I'm not so worried if it's the cat in the bag you buy. Reading about this can encourage you to do so. I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl in the premise. Firstly, there are discussions on exactly how the Europol agreement should be drawn up. But the fact that Denmark is to be involved is beyond doubt. That would be good for our police cooperation. This will be good for our ability to influence Europol forward-looking. Although we do not know all the details, the Left and the government have a political desire to be involved. We do not have a legal option to make a parallel agreement when there is no clarity as to what a parallel agreement should be sought by. However, we have a political interest in being involved, and that is why the government wants us to take the vote now so that we do not go out first and then have to apply to be associated, but so that we can be involved all the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161554	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, JF
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161601	Thank you. I would like to ask how the Minister feels about the fact that with the electoral system the Folketing will be given the opportunity to give areas to the European Union that the Folketing is currently holding on behalf of the whole Kingdom, including those parts of the kingdom that are not part of the European Union. Does the Minister see that this could have consequences for the Kingdom community? And if so, how will the government deal with these consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161627	When the Faroe Islands and Greenland chose not to be part of the European Community first and now the European Union, it was our view that we fully respected it. On the other hand, Greenland and the Faroe Islands must also respect that Denmark is working further with the EU membership that we have, including taking decisions in areas that are of vital interest to Denmark, even if it can, in the extreme, mean a change affecting the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It is important to remember that the bill says that this does not apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It even appears in section 4 on the front page of the proposal. So it is not the case that we have a desire with the decision here to pull something over the head of neither the Faroe Islands nor Greenland. But it must be the case that, just as we have respected the right of the Faroe Islands and Greenland to opt out of European cooperation, the Faroe Islands and Greenland must also respect the right of the Danish Parliament to make the decisions that we need to make in order to be best placed in international cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161737	Thank you for your answer. I do not disagree with that, but I still believe that there are some complications. Although it says that the proposal does not apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, it has consequences, because this is something fundamental in the whole Kingdom community and something that the whole Kingdom community today shares. Doesn't the Minister see any democratic problem in making fundamental changes in the community of the Kingdom • the whole relationship and affairs of the Kingdom • without us being allowed to vote on it in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161816	I would have liked the Faroe Islands and Greenland also to be part of the vote, but assuming that the Faroe Islands and Greenland were part of the European Union. I would have liked to have seen that. I would have liked the whole Kingdom to be united in participating in the European Union. However, as I said before, we must respect the fact that in this area we have chosen different paths and that respect goes both ways. Just as we respect your choices, it must also be the case that we should not fail to make the decisions that are necessary here in the Folketing. Then we will have to find practical solutions to the specific problems that arise out of the way. And there I can at least promise that we, the government, will do everything we can to find joint solutions to problems that may arise along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161901	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020161906	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. The Minister had the point that the European Court of Justice also interprets parallel agreements. Yes, but it is Denmark's position in relation to parallel agreements versus having opted for a legal act that is fundamentally different. That's what's interesting. A parallel agreement can, of course, be terminated; we cannot do so by means of a legislative act of which we are a part. There we are forever subject to the interpretation of the Court of Justice. And what that means, we have seen in that Charter of Fundamental Rights where something that was a clause on the right to strike was turned into a ban on strikes. Probably not a lot of people could read that. But these are relatively dramatic things a court can do. I would just like to end by saying to the Minister that it is perhaps true that it is a great deal about trust. There's probably one point in this discussion being a lot about trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162015	Fortunately, there was no question. So I just take it as a comment and exchange of views, which gives me the opportunity to say a few things. First of all, I would like to say that it is such a pity for the qualitative debate that instead of debating something that we are actually going to vote on, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard to debate the right to strike on which we are not going to vote. So, frankly, when we talk about trust and political prestige, we could not try to talk about any of the things we are going to vote on, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, instead of talking about some of the things we're not voting on? Because the right to strike is not part of what is on the voting table; it is neither in relation to Europol nor to any of the 22 acts, nor is it, as far as I remember, in relation to any of the 10 acts we opt out of; it is a completely different part of EU cooperation, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard refers to. So it would actually be good for political esteem if we could be helped along and discuss what we are going to vote on instead of discussing what we are not voting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162119	Now, in fact, I think that we on the Enhedslisten have tried to discuss some of the specific legal acts where we have in some places demonstrated some errors we saw, and on top of that I have been prompted to say quite voluntarily from the parliamentary platform that there were some elements that I thought were positive, I just wanted to have another way of fulfilling those elements. So that criticism must be directed at some others. However, there is no point in surrendering the right to make decisions about EU cooperation to oneself, away from the people and giving it to oneself, and then saying that we must not discuss what may come sometime in the future. What is of course of interest to the people is what one might risk using the power of a political majority in this House. What is the risk that it will be used for? And that is where I say: it is probably a question of trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162215	It is quite true that the Enhedslisten, unlike the Danish People's Party, has actually said that there are some of the acts that you would like to participate in. I can understand that. For what we need to participate in, if we say yes, is a more effective fight against child abuse, against trafficking in women, against cybercrime, and it is a question of making it easier to enforce family law decisions, so that we ensure better people who have been caught up either in inheritance cases or in family cases such as divorce cases, children's cases and similar cases. So I understand that the Enhedslisten would like to be included in some of the legal acts. I just can't believe that, sir. Søren Søndergaard used as an example of this, was the right to strike, which is not discussed here. That is why I just have the call for everyone: let us now discuss what we are going to vote on, then we can discuss another day what we are not going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162300	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162305	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister says that he is incomprehensible to our concern by leaving it to the Danish Parliament, or the European Committee, to surrender sovereignty on behalf of Denmark and sees it as such an expression of a lack of confidence in the College that the Danish Parliament is. The Minister goes on to argue that it is better for the Danish Parliament to decide which parts of the judicial cooperation Denmark should participate in than for the EU bodies to do so. But the Minister completely forgets that there are other decision-making bodies than the Folketing and the European Union, namely the people. And so I would like to ask the Minister: is the Minister not concerned at all that something as essential as surrendering sovereignty should be an issue that comes past the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162357	Yes. And that is precisely why we are going to have a referendum on 3 December. Because we are being asked whether we are prepared to give up sovereignty in this area. However, I would like to reverse the question, because if Mrs Christina Egelund and the Liberal Alliance really wanted to ensure that there would be a referendum in several areas, would it not be an idea for the Liberal Alliance to become part of the circle of agreements and choose to interpret the right of veto as restrictively as the Left, Social Democracy and the Conservative People's Party have said that we would do so if the issue of asylum and immigration policy were ever to arise? Then Mrs Christina Egelund and the Liberal Alliance could not actually just tackle this in a completely different way and say: well, then we go in and become part of it, because then we have a corresponding right of veto and can manage it in the same way as other parties? Is there anything in the 22 acts we are talking about that Mrs Christina Egelund and the Liberal Alliance are actually opposed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162458	Then the question was put the other way. That's the questioner, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162502	Well, that's nice. Thanks for the good questions. I'll try to be brief. Are there any of the legal acts that we disagree with Denmark's accession? No, there is not, and that is what I said earlier in my rapporteur's speech. And thank you for inviting me to make the deal. However, when we have chosen to be out of that agreement, it is because we do not agree with the procedure that is laid down for the accession of acts other than those that form part of the agreement. And that's kind of the part of what we're turning against. Because we do not think that democracy and referendums are such theoretical indifference. In fact, we think it is quite important.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162543	I fully agree that this is quite important. However, I also fully agree that there are a large number of areas in which the Danish Parliament is today taking a position on behalf of the Danish people on things that are far, far more far-reaching than the legal acts that are referred to here in relation to the European Union. You can just take the whole issue of tax policy, the issue of participation in military coalitions around us. Those things go much further than some of the acts that are being talked about here, even though they are very good. And that is why, if you trust the Folketing, you should also have confidence in the Folketing in relation to legislative acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162622	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the European Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162640	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020162701	Sometimes they say, "Now for something completely different." Here you can say: and now to exactly the same thing. Because that's exactly the same thing as what we just spent 41⁄2 hours discussing. The alternative has proposed that the government be required that the forthcoming referendum on the transformation of the reservation of law into an electoral system should also include the issue of Denmark's participation in EU cooperation on asylum and immigration. So far so good. That's what I got out of my well-prepared speech. Now I think I will put it aside a little because most of the arguments have been heard and put forward and just say that I think it is fairly clear to most that the government does not support the fact that we also have to vote on asylum and immigration policy. We believe that the agreement reached on a specific election of Europol and a number of other 22 other acts is a strong way of formulating themselves. I thought it was exciting in the debate just before to see how sometimes people were attacked for taking too much with them, and how others were attacked for taking too little with them, that even more acts should have been included in the agreement, because then perhaps it would have been even better for some to be involved. I think it really reveals a fairly good balance in what is involved and what is not. The fact that we have chosen not to be part of the asylum and immigration policy is not due to the fact that we do not think it is an area for which Denmark should take part in the responsibility. Denmark is a country which has historically received a large proportion of refugees and immigrants. We have received refugees and family members from a wide range of countries. In the past, under the government of the VK, we have opened up the possibility of seeking legal immigration in Denmark to such an extent that three times as many people from outside the EU came to Denmark in 2011, compared to when we took over government back in 2001. This shows a development in which one has, so to speak, had an opportunity to come legally to Denmark, but on terms and conditions that we in Denmark have decided ourselves. We want to continue to be able to do so. We believe that Denmark must also take part in the current refugee and migration crisis that is in Europe. That is why we said quite clearly that, although we are not part of the common distribution, we would like to take extraordinary 1,000 refugees out of the allocation pool that the Heads of Government discussed at the extraordinary summit on the allocation mechanism. This does not mean that we want to participate in the rest, but it sends out a signal that, like the authors of the motion for a resolution, we also have a commitment to help solve the challenges facing Europe in Denmark as well. That is why we agree that Denmark must carry out its task and we also believe that we are doing this, but we believe that it should be something on the Danish side where we choose exactly how. That is why we cannot support the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163011	It seems rare that a minister does not use his speaking time, but thanks to the Minister. And the first rapporteur in this area is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163027	Well, I have to say that we Social Democrats cannot support the proposal. It is not because we are not happy to discuss asylum and immigration policy, but it is not part of the forthcoming EU vote on 3 December, and we do not want it to be either. In addition, we support the announcement by the Prime Minister in this area of a vote on participation in the common asylum and immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163101	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the first questioner is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163109	Well, thank you to the rapporteur for that brief comment. I understand that we want a vote on asylum and refugee policy at some point. Is there any talk about when it's gonna be? I think the rapporteur said that we want a vote later.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163127	No, it's not something we plan for the Danes to vote on. But what we are giving a clear indication of is that we support the Prime Minister's promise that there will be a vote if it is to be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163142	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163145	[Sound emission]... that one begins to look at when we might be involved in solidarity and responsible cooperation on this, which specifically concerns challenges that each country cannot face on its own. Perhaps we should look at with our partners: when is it like we're going to start working together?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163203	No, we want asylum and immigration policy to be defined and determined in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163212	There's no more questioners. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163224	Thank you. In fact, the present proposal from the Alternative is extremely superfluous. Indeed, the possibility sought by the alternative in the proposal, namely that Denmark should participate in the EU's cooperation on asylum and immigration policy, is fully present in accordance with the legislative proposal that we have just examined. If the Danes vote yes on 3 December, there is only one political agreement that can be denounced to this day tomorrow to prevent a majority of the parties at Christiansborg from deciding to oblige Denmark to participate in the EU's common asylum and immigration policy. Indeed, the parties do not even have to terminate the agreement, as they are only bound by the law, which, with an option model, will allow Denmark to commit to the EU's common asylum and immigration policy, tomorrow. Nevertheless, the alternative then makes this proposal, which cleverly uses a number of opinion polls to argue that the Danish people should want such a common asylum and immigration policy. It is in itself symptomatic of the way in which we have come to know the alternative during the election campaign that a party is happily freed from political views, but nevertheless represents the finest crystallisation of the competencies of the creative class itself. When a sample of the Danes in the reported polls indicates that you want a European solution to the migration crisis, that is a snapshot. It is a desire for European politicians to take their place and fulfil their task of protecting Europe's borders. But the European top politicians did not want to do so. Countries like Hungary which have tried to protect their borders and Europe's external border have been sidelined, criticised for stopping migration and for being inhumane. I would like to guarantee that the common European solution requested by Danish citizens is not a solution whereby millions of migrants over the coming years are to flood the European continent while powerless and irresponsible politicians are watching. The common European solution requested by the Danes is that the European Union honours its commitment to the people to secure the EU's external borders, and this presupposes that the possibility of having a future in Europe, as a migrant, is stopped. If we are to be able to help refugees, we must help them outside Europe and not turn them into immigrants in our countries. As long as the prospect of a future in Europe is there, hundreds of thousands of migrants will continue to set their course for Europe. But all right, I understand that the alternative's perception of the course that Merkel and Hollande have set for Europe is the path that the alternative wants to follow. We must therefore assume that it is the alternative's view that not Denmark, but the EU must decide which foreigners can stay in Denmark; that it should be the EU and not Denmark that determines the conditions under which foreigners can stay in Denmark to work, study and research; that it should be the EU and not Denmark that decides when to have family reunification with a spouse; and that it should be the EU and not Denmark that decides what it takes to get asylum and residence permits in Denmark. In these months, we are being taught what it means to leave the responsibility for Denmark's foreign policy to countries such as Germany and Sweden, whose leading politicians are unable to bridle their own need to flash a boundless and narcissistic self-goodness, whose unfolding will inevitably lead to the destruction of their own countries' culture, religion and prosperity. It is obviously the same way the alternative wants to go, but of course it is also easy to be good at the expense of others when you sit in the apartment in the inner Frederiksberg or in Gentofte and drink a cool white wine and do not have to deal with the practical consequences of an immigration that has run completely off the rails; when not your own children come into the minority in the primary school; when it is not your own children who are told that the same person is disgusting because the charge is produced from pork; and when not your own children get scolded because you are a Dane. And yes, that is exactly what this proposal is about, because it has consequences to be good. All these migrants, who, in the goodness of their hearts, will be admitted to Denmark and will try to integrate into our homeland, are the same immigrants who will multiply the enormous integration challenges that we already have in Denmark: integration challenges that are completely the same throughout Western Europe and that no Western European country has found a solution to. The other day Jyllands-Posten could even tell that about half of the living Muslims want the constitution replaced by the Koran or supplemented by it. That is why the alternative's desire to include Denmark in the EU's common asylum and immigration policy will be devastating for Denmark. Once competence has been left to the European Union, competence can never be reversed. Once we have decided that it is the European Union that decides which foreigners should be admitted to Denmark, we can never get that competence back. Let me be very clear: that is not the position of the Danish People's Party, and I am absolutely convinced that it is not the majority of the Danes' position either. For this reason, of course, the Danish People's Party cannot support the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163722	The first question is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163727	We therefore agree with the Socialist Group not to support this motion for a resolution. However, the DF's rapporteur makes a number of allegations in his rapporteur's speech about both the democratically elected party, the alternative, and about what will happen if experience is shared with the other European countries in this area. Is it possible that the rapporteur can document just one third of the allegations he made in his rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163808	Of course I can. And Mrs Trine Bramsen would not have asked that question if Mrs Trine Bramsen had come to terms with the substance of the matter. What the alternative is asking for is, after all, a mandate to surrender sovereignty in the area of asylum and aliens to the European Union. This is a very far-reaching mandate, which I understand the Social Democrats are not prepared to give, either, as the time is now. I do not know whether that will change when a new President arrives. There are many things that change in the social democracy when they change the President. But as the situation is now, the Social Democrats do not want that. And I have to say that I believe that just as much as the alternative has the right to put forward their views, as much as we have the right to argue in the Danish People's Party and in other parties that we in Denmark should decide our own asylum and immigration policies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163859	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163902	I did not ask for the opinion on the motion for a resolution. I started by saying that we agree not to support the resolution. However, the rapporteur made a number of allegations, such as that Denmark would become a Koran state and that the resolution was written in a Frederiksberg apartment under the influence of white wine. Now we are in the democratic room, so I just want to know if the rapporteur can document the allegations made in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020163934	Unlike Mrs Trine Bramsen, I like to be polemical at times, and I freely admit that I cannot confirm that the motion for a resolution was written in an apartment in Frederiksberg, but I can say that it does seem to me. It feels that one is very far from the reality that affects ordinary people, among other things. in the area where I have been appointed and elected, namely the West. Perhaps Mrs Trine Bramsen should consider coming by, then I will show Trine Bramssen some of the things I have pointed out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164002	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164008	The unflattering picture and the savage attempt at insolentness that came from the rapporteur, I will leave it at the rapporteur's own expense. What I would like to ask is that if the rapporteur is so sure that the Danes are of a different opinion, why can the rapporteur not support us asking the Danes if they want to participate? That is what we are asking for in this motion for a resolution: to send it to a referendum whether the Danes want a common European asylum and refugee policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164036	Well, it is strange that when it comes to referendums on the European Union, referendums must always be about whether or not we want more EU. We have, for example. on behalf of the Danish People's Party. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Danish People's Party has proposed that Schengen cooperation be sent to a referendum, but this will certainly not be sent to a referendum. What it sounds like to me is that when the Danes are going to a referendum on the European Union, they have to be asked each time whether they want more. I do not think the Danes should continue to be asked about this. The Danes were asked about these things in 1992 and 1993 and then the Danes replied as the Danes did, and I do not think there is any need to ask again. It should be borne in mind that if it were adopted here, if it were actually to become a reality, Denmark would have even more asylum seekers for the country. That would cost a lot more money. And I'm aware that sir... Uffe Elbæk is wearing a shirt on which there is generosity, and I have to say that this will also be necessary if that is the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164132	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164136	Does the rapporteur say that the world situation and the political situation cannot have changed since 1992? So, things are changing, the world is changing, and so is the situation with regard to the refugee and asylum issues. And yes, in the situation we are facing today, the alternative is that we have to solve the common problem because it is a common problem. But does the rapporteur really think that there can never be another question that has been asked so many years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164204	I believe that we should be very reluctant to ask the same questions until we get the answer we want, because it undermines the public's confidence in politicians if politicians simply keep asking and asking for the answer they want the people to give them. So I think we should be very careful to ask the same questions over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164226	The next question is Mr. Morten Løkkegaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164229	But what brings me to the question is simply a little the same, because I think it is an interesting message coming from the Danish People's Party. So it's been 23 years since we asked the Danes about this. Is it really the view of the rapporteur, the Danish People's Party, that it is not possible to ask the public a question every 23 years if things develop? Is that what we need to understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164300	After all, this is not the only referendum we have had in Denmark since 1993. There have been others, and what has been characteristic of those votes has been that there have been some where the Danes have said yes, but there have also been some where the Danes have said no, and it has to be said that in relation to what we discussed earlier, namely the reservation in law, it is clear that we do not see any basis for holding a referendum, because we want a parallel agreement with Europol, and that is what we quite simply want. So we do not see the need to hold a referendum on that issue. But I'll look forward to it if Mr. Morten Løkkegaard can persuade his parliamentary group in the Left to hold a referendum on e.g. Schengen. The Danes have never been asked that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164350	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164354	[Sound emission]... The Danish People's Party would therefore like a referendum on Schengen. So the view that you should not ask about the same areas does not hold up. We do not want a referendum on Schengen, but that is a valid political point of view. However, the principle of opposing referendums, against asking again if the situation develops, does not seem to me to be the answer given by the rapporteur. Is it the principle view of the Danish People's Party that you cannot ask if the people have answered once?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164429	Now the Danes have never been asked about Schengen, so perhaps it would be appropriate to ask the Danes once, but I could also ask Mr. Morten Løkkegaard: How many times do the Danes have to say no to the euro before the Left stops asking the Danes about it? Now I understand that the Minister for Finance has said that if there is a yes in this vote on 3 December, we shall have to vote on the euro. The Danes have thus seen a number of times the answer to what the Danes think about it, but it does not seem to do that the Left will refrain from asking the Danes again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164506	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Morten Løkkegaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164521	Yes, the day is well advanced, so I shall try to be brief, not least because the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also been able to state what the position is on the part of the government, and not surprisingly, we in the Left are in complete agreement with it. In contrast to the previous rapporteur, however, we in the Left would like to acknowledge and agree with the alternative that the refugee problem is an historic task which needs to be addressed with some seriousness. And the alternative must at least have that: that you try to think it seriously. This requires all countries to take responsibility and European cooperation in this area is required. We do not then agree that this can only be done by Danish participation in a common European asylum and immigration policy. That would, of course, be to ignore the efforts that we have made and will make in the future. The Minister has already mentioned the stakes, but let me just refresh a few. Well, the government has decided to set 750 million. kr. to common European solutions, including earmarking for stronger action in Syria and neighbouring countries. So a number of initiatives are being taken these days. In 2014, we were the fifth largest recipient country in terms of the number of asylum seekers per year. I hope that the alternative will recognize this as well. In other words, we, as a country, have a great deal to do when it comes to taking on both international and European responsibilities. We show the flag, and I think we can be proud of that. The Danish contribution shows that we take the common European challenges seriously. We in the Left believe that this is what we can do, while at the same time we are firmly and firmly committed to establishing Danish foreign policy in Denmark. So we are against voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164716	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020164731	In legal terms, it can be said that the proposal is a little superfluous in the sense that we are abolishing the Danish derogation, the exception of the people, and replacing it with an opt-in system that applies to all areas. With regard to the European Union, it applies to all areas, including asylum and refugee policy. How we then apply the opt-in system and what political agreements we, the Folketing, are making with ourselves and each other, about what you will actually actually choose, is a purely Danish matter. This is not something that comes to the electoral system or the relationship with the European Union. So, in this sense, it can be said that unless the alternative believes that it is the last referendum we should have, whether something pertaining to legal policy, then it makes sense. Because if the alternative says yes to opting for the opt-in system and then wants a vote on refugee policy, it will be the last referendum to come in that area. There's never gonna be another one. It's over. I think that's a little weird. On the other hand, I feel the same way, or we feel that, when we are going to vote and the debate is up, we will not oppose it, because things can develop over years, and if there is a majority or a large minority in the Folketing who want a political endorsement of it, for that will be the case, an indicative referendum, then for our sakes, no alarm. We will not use our mandates to prevent an indicative referendum on anything like that; it is not we who add votes to it, but we will not use our mandates to prevent it. But having said that, I would also like to ask what consequences it will have if this proposal is rejected, for the alternative. If it is refused to hold this referendum, will we continue to vote in favour of a yes on 3 December? Well, is that a show proposal, or is it seriously meant? If it is serious, it must, of course, have some consequences on how to vote on the general theme of the vote on 3 December. So in the end, I cannot help saying that I think the rather odd thing is that there is a parallel between the alternative and the Danish People's Party here. Both see the European Union as someone who has an enormously progressive or immigrant-friendly, refugee-friendly policy. Therefore, the alternative would like us to be involved, and therefore the Danish People's Party does not want us to have anything to do with it. I have to admit, I don't understand. I don't know what reality we're living in. What is the reason why people are looking over the Mediterranean? What is the most central instrument that has been to prevent people from coming to Europe to seek asylum? Transporter's responsibility. That is what has required airlines to ensure that people could not take a plane to Copenhagen airport or where they now went to seek asylum. That is what has so much forced people to flee. This is something that comes from the European Union. Frontex is something that comes from the European Union. EU policy now: what is it about? It is to bribe Turkey to keep the refugees at home, while at the same time closing its eyes to human rights violations. So in the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of the world being one. We cannot close our eyes to things that are going on in other parts of the world, and suffering for people outside Denmark is also something we have to deal with. We just have to note that there is no help from the European Union. There is an obstacle to the European Union, and that is why we are not sure of 'no', it was wrongly formulated, we are absolutely sure that giving more power to the European Union in this area would be a quite crazy development.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165141	Thank you to the rapporteur. First question, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165146	Well, maybe the alternative would have to invite DF on a glass of white wine at some point. We go in and try to push and suggest that we take this issue up for a referendum. I am aware of the legal fact that the Danish Parliament can make an opt-in scheme, but that does not prevent the Danish Parliament from making some indicative referendums that can guide the Danish Parliament in some directions. Here we propose the first. We will probably be proposing more over time, because we believe it can be a good tool to find out which way the Danish people want to go. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is in relation to the fact that, in this group of parties, it has now been decided to say that we are not going to do this; it is not part of the referendum now, because that is what we are keeping out. But does the rapporteur not think that it might be an idea to ask whether it should not be included in the vote? Then the Danes can also decide on it on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165243	Yeah, and that's what I was trying to say. It is clear that we will not propose or vote in favour of a proposal for a referendum on something that we do not want to change in relation to the current situation. Nor will we use our votes to prevent such a referendum from taking place if a large minority or a majority were to vote if it is a majority, nor can we prevent it from trying to prevent such a referendum. Therefore, we will not vote against the proposal, but I just have to say that I do not fully understand the logic of the policy of the alternative. For the logic of the policy of the Alternative is to ask with one hand to have an indicative referendum on whether refugee and alien policy should be part of the EU's competence and, with the other hand, to vote in favour of a proposal which means that we will never again have referenda on anything that has to do with legal policy as a relationship between Denmark and the European Union. I do not understand how the Alternative coordinates the two hands I think they go in different directions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165351	Thank you. I have to say that I feel a little provoked by the rapporteur's speech on the Danish People's Party, which is why I simply have to ask the question: what is it really necessary for Enhedslisten to consider a policy of foreigners to be sufficiently merciful? It is obviously not sufficiently merciful that Angela Merkel has invited a million people into Germany and then, incidentally, tries to spread them afterwards. That is not enough mercy. How many millions of foreigners are we supposed to take in every year in Enhedslisten's optics? Apparently it's not one, it's probably not two either. What is it? Is that five, six, eight, ten? Can we get a number? I'm just wondering if you can come up with a point of view like that. How many is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165443	After all, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will have a comment in a moment, which is why the rapporteur can give the Danish People's Party's view on what the figure is. I want to say that I cannot give a bid, because of course it deals with what is happening around the world. We were once in a situation where we had some memory and were a little older, remembering it when civil war was about to take place in the Baltic. It was envisaged that there was a risk of half a million refugees coming from the Baltic to Bornholm. You actually started to think about what you could do about it. Should we have said: we don't want that. We send Frontex, or whatever we would call it, out to make sure they can't get to Bornholm. Should we have done that? No. How many refugees we can take or be forced to take depends on the situation, and then, of course, you have to do everything you can to prevent you from getting into the situation where there are refugees. There we have, for example. We are therefore not talking about half a million refugees or a million, we are talking about many millions of refugees. That is why we want the government to do something before things go wrong, instead of waiting until afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165602	I am quite convinced that the Danish people would be very inclined to accept fleeing balts who came to Denmark, because that is part of our immediate area, and therefore it would also be quite reasonable for Denmark to take a quite large part of the people concerned. It is true, however, that those who come come come from East Africa, they come from the Middle East, areas which are certainly not Denmark's immediate area. I would therefore like to say to the rapporteur: our figures are as few as possible, but what are the Enhedslisten's figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165635	Enhedslisten's numbers are also as few as possible. It is quite obvious that as few as possible. That is why we are begging the government to take seriously the issue of the threatening civil war in Turkey. That is why we repeatedly oppose the trade agreements of the European Union which impoverish countries outside the territory of the European Union. That is why we repeatedly oppose the way in which the European Union supports dictatorships. I myself experienced how Gaddafi was received down in the EU • that scoundrel. I'm sorry, President, if it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure to call Gaddafi a scoundrel, but that's what he was. He was kissed and hugged by the EU. Yes, as few as possible, and that is why we must pursue an active foreign policy, not by throwing bombs and supporting the European Union, but by pursuing an active human rights policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165724	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165741	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance we have such sympathy for this proposal, and in general we support the fact that we would rather ask the people once too much than once too little when it comes to Danish participation in different parts of European cooperation. However, if we do not support this proposal, it is mainly based on two reasons, both of which actually have something to do with timing. Firstly, we think that, since we are now going to have a referendum on 3 December, we should like to have clarification in that referendum on the legal basis on which Denmark joins further areas of legal policy. We think it is important, even in the interests of public debate, to have a clarification of the legal basis for joining. That's one thing. The second thing that, as such, also has something to do with timing is that if there is something going on in Europe right now, it is the European Union's handling of the current refugee crisis. What do you do? Perhaps, perhaps, there are no new measures coming from the Commission in relation to a permanent crisis mechanism and other things, and we simply think it is right that when you ask the people whether Denmark should join new policy areas within the European Union, you know what to vote on, that is to say you know the policy to which you are asking the Danes to say yes or no. Therefore, our lack of support for the proposal is not based on an unwillingness to ask the people, nor on areas to which we would probably recommend a no, but we do not think that the timing for that is right right right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165931	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020165939	Thank you. I would like to sign up to the rapporteur; I think that was quite a good argument. Would the rapporteur not also acknowledge that, by waiting for a policy to be completed, we are not helping to create that policy either? If we choose to ask the people whether they want to participate in the refugee and asylum policy, then we come into cooperation where we can also create the policy we want from Denmark, whereas if we wait to ask until it has been applauded among the other countries, then we must, like all the other EU countries, swallow the policy that has come from the other EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170014	Yes, that is quite right, but I think that when you have to ask the people something, it is very right that the people know what they are dealing with. I do not believe that there is any clarification on the part of the European Union in relation to the future of the European Union's policy on refugees and immigrants. I simply do not think we have any clarification on this side of 3 December. I therefore think that the proper thing to do is to wait until there is a clarification before asking the public whether it is something that Denmark should agree to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170048	These are also excellent arguments, that is quite fine. What we are then saying is precisely this: we want to be involved in creating future policy, and we are not doing so when we are outside this solution. Would the Liberal Alliance perhaps want to take this up at a later stage when there will be new proposals on refugee and asylum policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170113	After all, we hope that, with a 'no' vote on 3 December, we will be in a situation where we will actually have access to more referendums and not just to this area, but, in other words, to all areas of judicial policy in the area of cooperation within the European Union. So I certainly hope we shall have occasion to do so. In this way, the essence of what we are going to vote on on 3 December is one of the main arguments for why we recommend a 'no' vote, namely the right to ask the public about areas which are important and which also concern the surrender of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170145	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170159	Thank you. On the part of the Radical Left, we are very pleased with the referendum we are going to have here in December. This allows us to have a referendum on some of our legal reservations and to have Denmark remain in Europol. And part of the agreement we made to have the vote is that at the same time we do not vote on asylum policy. So that's why we think this proposal is a little unmusical. It is clear that we cannot support it because it is simply not in line with the agreement we have made in connection with the vote we are going to have on our participation in Europol. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170237	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170241	Okay, I just have one question. What we are asking for is that we should also vote on it. This means that you can have it as a separate item on a ballot paper or that you may have two ballot papers. So can the rapporteur not elaborate on how to disturb by holding them at the same time and thus determine what the Danes want in relation to this, instead of only the five parties deciding on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170307	It will, of course, be perfectly possible to take a later vote on participation in asylum policy, but it should not be confused with this vote, which I believe is mainly about Europol and 21 other acts. In other words, I believe that if we were to have a pile of weddings where we had to debate Europol and debate Europe's asylum policy, we would not have the sharp, clean lines and the more concentrated and focused debate we can now hopefully have about Europol. I therefore think that the proposal is unmusical in relation to the political situation we are in and we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170340	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170353	I think that there are perfectly correct grounds behind this proposal, namely that, in particular, the refugee situation in Europe requires European solutions and that, in that sense, there is a lot of reason for us to be involved in European asylum cooperation. Surely it should not be a secret that we would have liked it to be included in the agreement that was made at the time, but there was no majority in favour of it. That is why we respect the agreement that has been reached and therefore we cannot support this alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170443	Thank you. First question, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170447	That's an interesting answer. That is why I came to think of the EU negotiations over the last few days about that with the refugees, i.e. who should take how many. I think that a scenario in which the European Union dictates how many refugee countries should take and where there are countries that do not want to take anyone will mean what we have seen in some of the countries, namely that citizens' groups then protest against the European Union and thus the government, and extreme right-wing forces will thus get a lot of wind in the sails. Does the rapporteur not think it would be better to have intergovernmental agreements where the negotiators who come to the meeting are in order and make offers and say that they can take 1,000, 2000, 5 000 or 10,000, and thus break up solutions so that there is also a living movement against the people who are going to receive these refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170540-2	This question clearly shows where Enhedslisten is in this. We have tried voluntary agreements. And it turned out that there were a number of countries that did not want to participate in it. And the argument I heard about the protests has been taken out of the mouth of the Danish People's Party. I don't think that's an argument. I think that we need to convince the people that European solutions are necessary, too, that there must be binding cooperation in this area. That's what this is all about. It's about whether you can get binding cooperation in this area. In addition, there is the whole issue of the Dublin Regulation, which I would really like to hear if the Enhedslisten is in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170634	Now I do not really know how we can agree or disagree, but I say that we must have the people with us in the solutions we choose as politicians if we want to avoid the extreme right forces getting wind in the sails, and then I heard that we might agree. I had so little doubt about that when the rapporteur said that I agree with the Danish People's Party. I certainly am not. I just think that when we choose some solutions, we should try, in the most active dialogue with the people, to get them to take on the refugees that we now need to take, instead of giving the problem to a supranational body that is forcing through a solution that some can then protest against. That is where I see the dilemma, because if we do not have that dialogue, if we do not convince our citizens that we have a responsibility, then we will have some terrible solutions that close completely off. This is a dangerous development.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170730	Look, this is some bullshit coming here. I'm sorry I said that. - Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Well, here in the Folketing, laws are always passed by a majority. The minority, as there is, must accept the majority that is, have to accept the democratic rules of the game, but does this mean that something is being forced through against those who are voting against it? Yes, you might say that, but that is the game of democracy. There is no question of anything being forced through. After all, this is a debate and a few votes. There I think it may be reasonable to have some voting rules which mean that the most unsolidarian countries are also, if I may say so, voted down and are obliged to take their share of the responsibility in this. But I understand Enhedslisten doesn't mean that. We simply do not want to be involved in solidarity solutions at all, any country can be allowed to do as it pleases. And that is, in practice, the same as the fact that there are no European solutions to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170824	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170830	The solidarity that exists is not about which speeches are made about what others should do. After all, it is about what you do in your own country and propose in your own country. So, sir... Holger K. Nielsen may just consider when looking at the policy of the previous government in this area in relation to keeping families of refugees in Denmark out. I think maybe you should run the rhetoric a little bit. But I'd like to hear about it, sir. Holger K. Nielsen says that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does not agree with the following passage: Danish immigration policy must continue to be established in Denmark. This means that the parties to the agreement will not support the selection of acts on asylum and immigration, which Denmark is currently outside. We want to ensure the status quo in Denmark's relations with the EU's asylum and immigration policy. I got it, sir. Holger K. Nielsen said that he does not agree with this wording?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170927	Everyone knows our position on this. We are completely behind the agreement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170934	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. Yes, I'm sorry, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020170940	In other words, the SF has signed a wording which the SF appears to be or at least claims to be vertically opposed to. One could have formulated oneself out of it. One could have written something on the present basis, or we agree on so far, but that is not what one writes. One writes: We will secure the status quo. We will not support options. Foreign policy must continue to be defined in Denmark. Is it SF's policy, or isn't it SF's policy? This deal bears SF's stamp. Is it something SF is behind, or is it something SF is not behind, or is it just total confusion that prevails?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171018	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171021	But of course Danish foreign policy must be established here in the Folketing. But what we are saying is that there must be European cooperation. And if it is to be effective, you have to have binding agreements on it. That is what the European Union is all about, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard also very well. Does this mean that we are being forced on something, that there is, like, a dictatorial authority coming from outside and saying that we must now do this and that? No, it's not like that. It is, of course, a democratic cooperation that has been developed, where we also have influence and where there is a procedure here in the Folketing in the Committee on European Affairs, where Mr. Søren Søndergaard himself sits and heaves up week after week in an excellent way. Sir. Søren Søndergaard is wise, competent, but it is not the case that there is no democratic process in this. There is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171113	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171129	Thank you for making this proposal, which gives me the opportunity to say that we are vertically opposed to it. We do not in any way want foreign and asylum policy to be an EU issue. It must be something that is a Danish matter that is decided in the Folketing, and the Conservative People's Party is the guarantor that it remains so, and also as a guarantor of a firm and strict immigration policy. So we are voting very, very clearly against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171209	Thank you to the rapporteur. It doesn't look like anyone wants to ask. Then we move on to the next speaker. That is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171234	As I explained a short time ago when we dealt with L 29, the alternative recommends a 'yes' to it, but although we recommend a 'yes' to the electoral system, we still disagree deeply with the conciliation circle that the common asylum and refugee policy act is not included in the vote. And why are we? We are because we believe that Denmark contributes best to solving the global refugee crisis through solidarity and responsibility and joint coordinated action in the European Union. We are in the midst of the worst humanitarian crisis since the Second World War. Syria is on fire. The neighbourhoods are breaking down, and the refugee crisis or challenge has now spread to Europe. Of course, we cannot close our eyes to this in Denmark. Of course, we can choose to close our eyes and close our eyes to ourselves; we can close the borders of refugees who come to seek protection. We just don't think that's a good or empathetic solution. We believe that the good and empathetic solution lies in entering into a common European asylum and refugee policy so that we can play an active role in the solutions that need to be found and so that we not only leave it to other EU countries to deal with and solve the challenge, but also so that we can help to push the refugee and asylum policy that needs to be pursued in the European Union in the right direction, in the direction we want from Denmark. If we do that, there will be, among other things. to be this quota system that more people are so afraid of. And in many ways it is a very sensible system which actually means that we are not leaving responsibility to Italy, Greece, Hungary, but that we are actually helping to lift up our ranks. There is also much evidence that the population would actually like to be here. Several polls from Gallup and Voxmeter have shown that a large majority of Danes actually want to be part of a common refugee and asylum policy. We were very pleased about this, and we want to be there. We think that this is very similar to the movement that has taken place among European citizens in recent months in the direction of taking more responsibility and helping to solve the problems. Whether you are actually in favour of a common European solution or not in favour of it, at least this is an issue which concerns many people in here too to the extent that they are very excited but, of course, many citizens too. They're very concerned about this. That is why we are proposing this, so that we take it with us when we are going to vote on 3 December, namely that we should create an extra box, so that we can say: will we also be involved in this? Or you can make an extra ballot for it. We really think this is a very fair way of doing it to ask the Danes whether this should also be done immediately. Yes, legally I know that there are some other things that need to be done, because they are written off legally by the electoral system, but we can make an indicative referendum on this particular issue, so that we hear the citizens: do you want to take part in a common asylum and immigration policy? We think that is sensible. Unfortunately, we can see today that we are reasonably alone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171539	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171546	It was just because I do not think that the rapporteur fully answered my question, that is to say, the question of whether it is not a little strange for the Alternative to stand on the one hand and to have an indicative referendum on whether the refugee and asylum issues should be part of the EU package. We think it is quite legitimate that the alternative would like that vote to be taken and, on the other hand, say yes to an opt-in system which means that we will never again have a referendum on areas relating to the EU's legal policy. Well, isn't that a little weird, and doesn't one have any impact on the other at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171627	I'm sorry I didn't get the answer. What we are just saying, and as I said in my rapporteur's speech to L 29, is that we would like this to be included. That is also why we are asking for an indicative referendum on this now, but that, after all, we believe that on 3 December, when we vote on the electoral system, we are taking a step in the right direction because we are going to cooperate on these 22 legislative acts. We think this is sensible and therefore we can say yes. But that does not mean that we stop pushing on with all sorts of other things we want to do. Unfortunately, we now have only nine mandates at this stage, and we would like to try to get them to have influence, and we are doing this step by step. Right now, we think it is right to vote in favour of this, because we are going to engage in cooperation that we think is important, and we will, of course, press for the other things that we think are important in terms of EU cooperation to be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171715	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171717	Thank you for the answers, but I would like to invite the rapporteur and the party to perhaps give it an extra consideration. After all, we have heard announced here today that the government will table an amendment, supposedly in agreement with the other parties, which is about the fact that, like the law itself, it is not possible to use the electoral system in relation to refugee and asylum policy. It gets that character, and how can it be changed? Yes, it can then be done as in the situation where there is a majority around those parties to do so, or as long as not a single mandate from those parties is essential for obtaining a majority in the Folketing. And I guess it's only in a situation where the alternative has 50%. by the votes in the Folketing. So is that not what you really do if you say yes, namely make a reservation against refugees? Is that not really what you vote 'yes' to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171824	I can at least promise that if we get 50%. Of the seats, white wine is served in here. What I heard the Foreign Minister say, and what I heard the Prime Minister say earlier, is that a referendum will be held on it if you wish to join it. In fact, we're just suggesting that they do it right now. So, yes, they say it's going to a referendum, and we just think it's a good idea to do it right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171850	We have one more question. Sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171854	I did not come this far with the SF rapporteur before, but I would like to know what the alternative's position is on cooperation between countries. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen expressed it as that we could compare it with a resolution in the Folketing, and that when one decided for a law, we had to follow it as a citizen. Thank you, but this is a supranational body which, on behalf of some countries, takes decisions which do not always feel as having any legitimacy for the citizens of the countries. And there may be countries that say that we disagree with that. Denmark has also been in some of the EU's decisions on occasion, and we have even decided to maintain our own position on certain issues. I mean, can one compare a country and its citizens with a supranational body and countries? Is there not a significant difference, namely that the way countries work together must be more voluntary, or is it the same for the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020171958	I shall not interfere with the debate by the SF rapporteur with the questioner. What is important to me is, of course, that by saying that we want to engage in binding cooperation, as the European Union is, but sometimes some decisions are taken as majority decisions, as they are. But the European Union is not undemocratic. So we have institutions in Europe, in the European Union, which are quite democratic. We have the European Parliament, which we would very much like to see strengthened in relation to the balance of power. So we are not afraid to give up this sovereignty because we will also gain participation. And then there are times when I agree more with politicians sitting in this House from, for example, Spain or from England than I can necessarily be with our own country's Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172047	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172049	I think I could easily find examples of this. But the question is: the European Union is not undemocratic, but is it the same as saying that the European Union is democratic and that it is a good place to take decisions such as those that dictate a certain solution to countries? I believe that we can easily create conflicts in the world if we otherwise dictate certain solutions to countries, for example. The question of refugees, which in these weeks can cause people to set fire to houses where refugees live. These are completely insane actions, and so many emotions are in it. That is why I think we should think about and use our both pedagogical and psychological insights when we find solutions, and not just, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says: When they are decided, they must be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172135	What is important here is to say that we have a framework for cooperation between these countries in the European Union. We would like to improve it, democratise it much more than it is today, but it is a sensible framework that allows us to work together. So, yes, can it get better? Oh, my God. And we would very much like to be involved in this. We have plenty of proposals on what could be done to get the European Union in an even better democratic direction. However, we still believe that this is a sensible framework for cooperation between the various Member States, including in the area of refugees and asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172211	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172224	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dam Kristensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172254	Denmark withdrew our F-16 flight home, and it is important, I think, to stress that it was after the end of the mission. Sometimes, as in the daily press, you have been able to get a feeling that now they could no longer be able to do so, etc. However, I think it is important to emphasise that the F-16s and the staff provided exactly the effort that we, as Parliament, had asked them for, namely one year's work. Denmark wishes to continue to participate in the international fight against ISIL, against the Islamic State. We have been doing this continuously for a long time now, and I am glad that we can continue to make a contribution. That is why, of course, we welcome the Foreign Minister and the Government's proposal to continue to participate. We need to make a radar contribution. It is a contribution that the coalition has expressed may be important in the further fight against the Islamic State. It is a radar contribution which must be based in Iraq and must establish an aerial image of the operating area in eastern Syria and western Iraq, i.e. monitor and coordinate the overall effort of coalition aircraft, separate civil and military aviation in the area, steer fighters to and from aircraft refueling and help to help solve the tasks. There is nothing else to say but that it is a good and important task. This then means, as I said at the outset, that we continue to take part in the fight against the Islamic State, which by God still poses a serious threat. We also send with this is a signal to our partners that Denmark will participate and that they know where we are when it is needed. So all in all we are well satisfied with the proposal that lies here. We think it is a contribution that helps to help the international coalition in the fight against the Islamic State. It is also stated in the proposal here that, if necessary, a new F-16 contribution should be considered. To that I think there are a few things to say. First of all, we did an excellent job down there. I am not going to deny that we have to go back again, but then it has to be because there is a specific need, a request that we can make an effort. And then I think, second of all, if you're gonna do that, you have to think about it. I think it was a tough load last time to be out for a whole year. All in all, however, we are satisfied with the government's proposal that lies here. It supports social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172548	There are no requests for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172610	In the Danish People's Party we want to help fight Islamic State. The Islamic State is a terrorist organisation that has tried to strike at widely different places on the planet. The Islamic State has noted itself with particularly malicious and horrific methods of terrorism and has unfortunately proved more difficult to combat than it was originally supposed. Unfortunately, the Islamic State could also plan to strike in Denmark. That is why the conflict in Iraq is not just a Middle Eastern civil war. It is a threat to ourselves and therefore it is necessary to help fight Islamic State. This is the crucial argument that Denmark should continue to be involved in the fight against the Islamic State. In the Danish People's Party we would prefer to contribute more sharp weapons against the Islamic State, which is why we would have liked our F-16s to have continued their efforts, but we must, of course, respect the fact that our fighter aircraft cannot be deployed continuously. Rest periods are needed at home in Denmark before they can be sent out again, and it is therefore a good solution for Denmark to contribute during this rest period with a radar which is needed to coordinate action against the Islamic State. The radar shall be distributed in accordance with this motion for a resolution for a period of up to one year, which may be extended thereafter. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it would be sensible to take a position on a possible renewal of the F-16s in one year's time when the radar is either to be taken back or possibly extended in action against the Islamic State. As I said, the Islamic State is a terrorist organisation that should be fought everywhere, not just in Iraq. That is why it is also depressing that there are now indications that there are Islamic State networks in Europe. It is disgraceful that Denmark has not helped to block the spread of Islamic State in Europe to a greater extent by subjecting the very large flow of refugees and immigrants that is currently being seen in Europe to closer control. There is hardly anyone who can guarantee that there are no illegal immigrants in Denmark with ties to the Islamic State today. There is no doubt that it is a good thing that Denmark is helping to combat the Islamic State in Iraq, but it would be even better if, in other areas too, we were to oppose the possibility of Islamic State spreading. Border control and registration of immigrants in transit to Sweden would be an effective method, which we in the Danish People's Party would very much like to see applied. We would recommend this to the government, so that the opportunities for the Islamic State to spread throughout Europe are reduced as much as possible, because it is unfortunately not enough to contribute only in Iraq. But, of course, that is necessary. The Danish People's Party supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172908	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020172921	Thank you, President. ISIL's terror has led to massive flows of refugees both in the neighbourhood and in Europe. The refugees report barbaric attacks and serious violations of human rights, which once again underlines the urgent need for the international community to actively combat ISIL. Denmark must, of course, take co-responsibility and contribute to this fight. If the threat from ISIL is not stopped, this regime of terror will grow and spread to great danger to both the region and the rest of the world. A crucial element in the fight against ISIL is diplomatic efforts to create a broad coalition with the participation of not least the countries of the region. It is vital that the coalition's efforts are not seen as a struggle between the West and Islam, and therefore it is positive that more than 60 countries are now united, including ten from the region. More than 20 countries contribute militarily through direct combat support and military training, through the provision of weapons, ammunition and other equipment or with logistical support. In addition, extensive humanitarian aid is separate from the coalition's efforts. With the deployment of the transport aircraft contribution, Denmark was among the first countries to support the US-led action against ISIL, according to Parliament Resolution B 122 of 27 August 2014. Denmark issued subsequent combat aircraft, a capacity-building contribution and a staff contribution pursuant to Resolution B 123 of 2 October 2014. The Danish combat aircraft contribution has been taken back by the beginning of October with a view to re-shipment depending on the situation and needs of the coalition. The Danish capacity-building and staff contribution will continue, and I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the efforts made towards the personnel who have been deployed on the aircraft. They have made an amazing effort, but are now tired and must go home and rest. In the coalition there is a military need for a ground radar contribution with operators. The contribution shall include: help establish an air image in the operating area to monitor and coordinate the overall effort or deployment of coalition aircraft. It is also necessary to separate coalition missions from each other and from any civilian air traffic, to steer the aircraft to and from the tankers, and to steer them to the areas where they have to carry out their operational tasks. In order to contribute to this task, the Left believes that it makes good sense to send out another Danish military contribution consisting of a radar capacity with its personnel, including technical and operational personnel, to contribute to the coalition's air operations. The contribution will consist of up to 30 persons, although in the context of the establishment and subsequent repatriation of the strength contribution in the region there will be a need for the temporary deployment of additional persons for unpacking, preparing, establishing and establishing communication links, etc. The radar contribution will be placed on a base in Iraq, where the Danish capacity building contribution is also located, while the operative personnel will be located in the Coalition Control and Warning Centre in the United Arab Emirates. The radar task solution includes Western Iraq and Eastern Syria. The radar contribution shall be distributed provisionally for a period of up to 12 months, which may be extended. The contribution will be under operational control of the coalition, but the Danish Chief of Defense retains full command. The Left agrees with the additional Danish contribution in support of the action against ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020173323	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020173340	Of course, in the Enhedslisten, we want to strengthen the fight against IS. When you see how the Islamic State has gained ground in Syria and Iraq and how people have been killed and abused, it is clear that you want to take action. And when we see the areas controlled by the IS and the oppression of women and ethnic groups, it is very clear that there is a need to take action against this kind of high extremism and oppression that is happening. However, I think it is very crucial that we constantly consider whether Denmark's efforts actually work as intended and whether what we do actually weakens IS. In the Enhedslisten, we are very sceptical about supporting this radar contribution, because we basically believe that it is a problem to give military support to the Baghdad government, because the Baghdad government also suppresses its own population deeply. In parts of Iraq, especially in the Sunni Muslim areas, the Iraqi army has shot at schools, hospitals and villages, and this is precisely the kind of thing that can give rise to the extremism of the population, which also gives impetus to the IS instead of weakening them. Nor is it more than a few weeks ago that we could read articles that a Danish lieutenant colonel had taken the magazine out of his mouth and explained how miserable the Iraqis are in the military action against IS, and that much of the training and support that Denmark and other countries in the coalition have pumped into the Iraqi army is not going to be anything at all. That may have been the picture all the way through, I believe, that the Iraqi army has not lifted its international responsibilities and has so much failed its own people. That is why I am very critical of whether this is the right way to fight the IS when it comes to cooperating so closely with the Iraqi Government, which is precisely oppressing its own people. In fact, in relation to this concrete contribution, which is about a radar that can monitor the airspace in large parts of Iraq and Syria, I am also a little concerned about what forces we are going to ally with and where this information can end up. We know that the Iraqi Government is already allied with Assad and with the priestly regime in Iran, and we know that there will be close cooperation with the Iranian Government. I think it is necessary to ask what assurance we have that this information cannot risk ending up in the hands of the Iraqi army or ultimately with Assad. It would be absolutely terrible if that were the case. At the moment, at least, there is a very, very complicated game going on between the great powers on the issue of Syria, and that is why I think it is important that Denmark should tread very carefully and not do anything hasty that plays an unfortunate role here. Because if this information about the air space over Iraq and Syria falls into the hands of Assad, it is very tragic if it makes it easier to carry out the bombings of his people. In any case, it can be said that this whole debate just underlines that there is a very, very mixed picture. This is a very, very difficult situation in both Iraq and Syria right now, and there are certainly no easy answers, but one can only say that for us in the Enhedslist it is at least a very clear guideline that if we are to combat extremism and oppressive forces as Islamic State, we also have to rely on it to be democratic and that we cannot do so here by supporting an oppressive regime in Iraq and that we cannot participate in the rivalry and repression of the great powers. I believe that if we really want to take effective action against the IS, it is an obvious opportunity to support the local democratic forces that we have in the Kurdish defence units in both Iraq and Syria. Specifically, Denmark could make a big difference by sending down some protective equipment, i.e. helmets, safety vests etc. and also weapons to the Kurds and, in any case, help with the reconstruction, also of areas such as Kobane, which were mentioned before. There are indeed many refugees who are safe in the Kurdish areas. It would be essential to strengthen that they can actually remain safe there. Then I also believe that this is about us having to say that Denmark must put pressure on some of our own allies. For example, Turkey continues to act as a country of integration for many of the foreign warriors who come and fight on the side of the IS, and this is a place to take action. So in other words, in the Enhedslisten, we would very much like to help fight Islamic State, but we don't think it's a viable strategy with this radar contribution, because it's military support for a very oppressive regime in Baghdad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020173900	Thank you. The rapporteur has just been asked to stay. So far, two have asked to speak, and the first questioner is Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020173909	Thank you. I certainly think that Mrs Eva Flyvholm, in her maiden speech here in the Danish Parliament, had some pertinent considerations about the fight against the IS and also about the challenges facing the Iraqi Government. I just don't see what this has to do with this radar contribution. And since it is said that the radar contribution can help Assad to bomb his people, I think that the chain is completely off. Because what is it about here? It is a question of monitoring the airspace. Isn't it an advantage to know what's flying around in the sky? I mean, we have planes operating from Kuwait and flying over Iraq. Is it not an advantage to have a complete overview of what other aircraft are in that area? Is it not an advantage at all that we know what the airspace looks like? How can information about the airspace be used by Assad to bomb his people in a completely different place from where this is supposed to be operational?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174017	Yes, of course it is relevant to have information about the airspace. But I think we have to stick to the fact that right now we just do not know what is actually happening with the information that the Danes are going to be involved in delivering. So we have not been able to get any good answers to that yet. That is one of the things I am calling for, and I hope that the Minister for Defence will make a clearer statement on this during the course of the process. I think it is very, very important to secure that information. After all, this is cooperation with the Iraqi army. I hope so. Holger K. Nielsen is aware of this, so it is extremely relevant to look at what the Iraqi Government's cooperation is with Assad and the regime in Iran. We know that there is already cooperation there. That's why I think it's interesting to try to get answers to where this information ends up. Nor do I hope that they will end up with either Assad or Iran, but I think that is very, very important to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174114	Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174116	Well, I still don't see much relevance. Yes, there are problems with the Iraqi Government. I fully agree with that. But what you can pick up is civilian aircraft. It can, for example, be done. There are Russian aircraft there, so you can say: okay, now there are some planes there, so you know that now there is a Russian plane there, and then there is something you can't do or something you can do. I don't think that has anything to do with Assad starting to bomb his own people. On the contrary, it merely provides a better overview of what is in the air over Iraq and parts of Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174157	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174158	As long as we cannot be sure who the Iraqis are sharing this information with, I do not believe that there is any certainty as to what they can be used for. And that is one of the things we need to clarify. However, with regard to the question of why we are at all critical of this contribution, when it is not in the same way military, as the rapporteur also asked about before, I would say that some of the military support for the Baghdad regime and the military cooperation that is with the Iraqi Government is being agreed. And that is exactly what I think we need to consider, i.e. whether this is the right way to fight the IS. For the repression carried out by the Iraqi Government against its own people, among others. in the Sunni Muslim areas, has helped to provide momentum for the IS. So there I think we have to see if we can do it another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174252	Thank you. We've got one more question, and that's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174257	I just need to ask quite clearly whether I heard wrong, because I think I heard Eva Flyvholm call it right-wing extremism: is that right? By the way, congratulations on the virginity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174312	Yes, I would say that it is at least a form of very reactionary extremism that is expressed. This is where it works, among other things. That women must not have democratic participation and that there must not be a diversity of different peoples. That is what I see as a right-wing extremism, and it is not to compare with any parties in the Danish Parliament. But this is a very totalitarian approach. After all, this is not a democratic approach, as I think we would all like to see it. What is basically the problem with IS is this extreme repression of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174401	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174404	I mean, I almost feel called to such a lecture that the right-left scale is about the degree of redistribution in society, i.e. whether you need a large or small state, and how much you have to pay in tax. And I'm having a little trouble seeing that it's got a lot to do with it. Then I just want to warn Enhedslisten not to define everything that Enhedslisten does not like, as having something to do with the right, because that is not necessarily the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174428	I will take note of that, but I will now point out that there are at least very serious problems with the repression carried out by the IS in the areas they control. And, of course, we are very, very interested in helping to combat this. That is also why I think it would be good if more parties would be involved, for example. to support the support of the Kurds who are fighting in both Syria and Iraq. I would like us to have a discussion of that in the Folketing soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174455	There are no more questioners on the list. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174514	The perpetrator of this motion for a resolution is, of course, that we have withdrawn our F 16 contribution in a calm and orderly manner. I think it should be stressed today that our contribution to the fight against this terrorist organisation, ISIL, has been praised by alliance partners, partners and others on our side in the fight against terrorism. Those of us who have had the opportunity to visit have also heard it from the other side, that is to say that one has been very excited about the Danish contribution, which fully and completely meets everything one could expect, and a little to. Fortunately, it is a story we often hear when Denmark contributes to international operations that our defenses may have a composition and come out of the general population, which makes them have a very good way of doing tasks. They then also have a professional skill when we talk about the people who have served the F 16 contribution, also the part that helps to train others to take over responsibility. So there's kind of praise for the part that's then pulled home. Then it can be said that this is a sort of substitute for the contribution we are now making with the radar contribution. I would say quite frankly that I think it is quite right and good that we are doing it. I was perhaps a little surprised that such a radar contribution is not already part of the fight against ISIL. If it has been a shortcoming so far, I think it is surprising. But obviously it is a contribution that the collaborators appreciate very much and that we can then deliver on the Danish side. That is why it is, of course, a very real parliamentary decision that we are now making the contribution to combating this terrorist organisation, which is certainly in Denmark's interest to combat by practically all means. That is why there is good reason to welcome the fact that it is very broad in the Danish Parliament. This suggests that we are behind such a motion for a resolution which we are discussing here today. It is worth stressing that ISIL is a terrorist movement. I do not think it is a state, nor that it should ever become a state and be called a state. It is a terrorist organisation, nothing else at all, and therefore everyone should stand together to fight them with the means necessary to ensure that this kind of thing, we must say that there is a lack of understanding of values at all to find the way to our continent. It is in our own interest to fight them by all means, and that is why we fully support this motion for a resolution on the radar contribution, which has been agreed for the time being to last for the next 12 months. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174829	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020174850	Thank you. In the alternative, we really do not think that we should be at war in Iraq at all, and that is also one of the reasons why we cannot vote in favour of this proposal. If, in isolation, it had been a proposal that we were talking about choosing whether we would be involved in fighting ISIL, then we would say yes to it. But here it is a proposal to supplement a Danish military effort in Iraq to combat ISIL, and this is where we believe that the foundation is wrong. There are several reasons for this. As a starting point, at first, we have a military in Denmark that is plagued by both management and staff challenges. We cannot see now and here that the Danish defence with the resources present can go in, although this is an escalation of the resources that are being used and provide a contribution that we must be aware of can be escalated. If we go in and participate now and continue the participation we have had and continue the contribution we have made so far, then we can get into a situation where the coalition and the United States are taking the lead and saying that now we simply have to do something more. It may be that it must be ground troops that must be deployed. Will Denmark stand and say no once we have said A? I think that we should also say 'B' if we go into responsible action. I understand very well the parties that say yes to this. I fully understand that we must fight ISIL. In the alternative, we just think that this is the wrong way Denmark contributes to the world. We can have an activist foreign policy in Denmark • we think that we are really, really good in a lot of areas • but instead of providing a contribution in the form of x number of aircraft, x number of radar stations, x number of soldiers, we would rather look at where it is that Denmark can make a real, really big contribution. In fact, in the alternative, we believe that we in Denmark are some of the best in the world to deliver humanitarian and peace-building efforts. We have a tradition of this, and we have enjoyed this reputation for many years in the outside world, that is to say that we have had a role in which we have thought that we were a strong mediator nation. That is where we want to make our efforts, and that is where we want to use our resources. That is why it is not a 'no' to using resources to combat ISIL. We just think that we should fight ISIL in a different way. It has to be in a peacekeeping way. Then there are some who tease us a little and say: then you can just sit down to the round table and engage in dialogue with ISIL, and nothing happens because they are barbarians, and how can you even defend that you want to engage in dialogue with them. In fact, I think that is a pity, because none of us in the alternative believe that we can sit down and talk to ISIL if they do not want to talk to us. To get past this round table talk, we have also tried to talk to a lot of veterans about what it really is like to be at war in Iraq and what it's like to decide that we should continue such a war. Many people really doubt whether this is even a war that makes sense to be part of. So when we say that we want to engage in dialogue with all the parties involved in this conflict, ISIL is probably the last person we will be in dialogue with. None of us in the Alternative believe that we can sit at the negotiating table with them now and here, but we believe that if we insist on dragging the parties to the negotiating table in this conflict, then with the world community we will be able to put pressure on ISIL because of greater cohesion in general and where bombs are not dropped in the Middle East, as has been done so many times before, where it has not really worked. In any case, we find it difficult to see where it has been useful for the last 15 years. So instead of listening to the alternative saying no from round tables, we've been out talking to a part of our veterans, and I think veterans far along the way are some of those who have the strongest voice on this issue. We are not going to claim in the alternative, where I am the peace and defence rapporteur, that we have been standing in front of these rifle races, but some of those who have stood in front of the rifle races are asking these questions, for example when you close an Iraq Commission. Those who sent us to war will pass the responsibility on to me and my comrades. With seven lines of government, the country's new government is closing not only for the Iraq Commission but for public understanding. I think that is essential, and that is also why we are voting against this. It's not necessarily just the radar. We agree with Enhedslisten that there may be some data problems. What is actually happening to the data we collect? But it's just as much a step into the war. We are not interested in taking this step into the war when you do not even want to learn from the actions that have been committed over the last 10-15 years. The Veterans ask: it seems strange when the government defends the closure with the fact that the Commission's questions have already been answered. And you get a little on the edge of the question: What do you mean by the words "sufficiently lit"? Does the government refer to the fact that we have skilled journalists in Denmark who have written stories over the years and thus explained everything to the people? There I would like to ask a little rhetorical: should the truth be pulled out of us politicians? I don't think it should, but that's kind of what I feel we get to know it should when it's done this way. So in the alternative, we'd like to say no. We would like to contribute to the fight against ISIL, but it must be peace-making and where we are a major humanitarian power.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175358	Thank you. We've got two questioners. The first is sir. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175403	I would also like to wish Mr. René Gade congratulations on his maiden speech. It is always a pleasure to hear here in Parliament. I also think he had some interesting considerations about the complexity of this effort, and I very much share them. I fully agree with that. We need to discuss this further, and I am also a little sad that the government has not put forward any more. But I just wanted to ask Mr. René Gade does not admit that when you replace an F-16 contribution with a radar, it is not a further step on the way into the war, but rather a step out of the war? That is far, far less militaristic than what we have at the moment, and that is why it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175453	It may be that I speak against better knowledge there. But I'm not thinking that this is something we're going to continue with, so we're gonna back out of the war with this step. I am told that we are already talking about getting the aircraft back on track even before our soldiers believe that the resources and the manning for it are actually there. So, sir. Holger K. Nielsen is right that this is a step towards a minor involvement. But I think it's a small step of short duration. In fact, I think that if we were at some point to say yes to military intervention, it would have to be to come in to carry out a peace-building mission for a short period of time. It could then be said that in this conflict we can go in and establish a basis for dialogue with the parties involved. So it may be you have to take military action at some point. But if we were to be involved in this, it should be because we had a clear vision that by doing this we created a situation in which we could negotiate. And then you could stop using military. I see that only one direction is taken, and it has been said that it may take 20 years for ISIL to be gone. I think it was a outgoing American officer who said that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175553	Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175555	That's where I think Mr. René Gade isn't right. After all, no decision has been taken to re-run the F-16s. It is quite clear that an independent decision must be taken on this. And in the intervening period there is time to discuss it, and I very much hope that the alternative will also take part in it. 'Cause there's really reason for it, based on the kind of complex relationships that are in this. But again, what's harmful about this radar contribution? Is it not very reasonable that we have a better overview of what is in the air of civil aircraft, of aircraft from Iran or Russian aircraft, or whatever it may be? I think that is very, very sensible, and I find it difficult to see that this is such a militaristic approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175640	There are a lot of sensible things in this radar contribution. But the whole premise is wrong in the eyes of the Alternative. After all, the contribution itself contributes precisely to our military efforts, and we think it is wrong to take military action if there is no vision of how to win peace. And we simply cannot see that there is, even with radar action.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175702	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175706	I too would like to congratulate you on a well done maiden speech. And I fully agree with Mr. René Gade in that we are good when it comes to humanitarian matters. We must continue to do so, but the world is not as good as it is. Sometimes you have to have different tools in use from the toolbox. I noticed very much that Mr. René Gade said he was not hoping to be able to come to a round table with the Islamic State. I think that's a real consideration... maybe even a wise consideration... and that's why my question is... isn't it a little too saved... in quotation marks... only to want to participate in the soft part, when all the evidence suggests that the hard part is also necessary in order to actually get on with that conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175756	Yes, and there I am quite sure that both the government and Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen only wants the best for Denmark. That is why I am quite sure that the parties who vote for this are doing so because they think that this is the right way to do it. In the alternative, we just feel that when we listen to the soldiers who have been there and the generals and captains who are currently saying whether it is possible to win this military thing right now, we just have to say that we have not yet found anyone who agrees that the way it is being done now is going to give us peace. It has been said: in 20 years we will have wiped out ISIL if we are lucky. But I'm not thinking it's just about exterminating ISIL. It is a completely destabilised area that we are talking about where there are many different enemies or at least conflicts. So I certainly do not think it is naive to say that the military is not the right way out. But it may be that you could have created a different situation in this area two years ago if you had acted in a different way and where the military had been right for a short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175853	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175854	Yes, but is that also the answer to the many people who have been subjected to atrocities in places where the Islamic State has taken cities and villages, etc.? If only one-tenth of the stories that come back from there are true, will that attitude not really leave completely innocent people in the lurch? If that position were dominant and no one else, like us, took on the hard part of it, then there was probably somewhere free for the Islamic State. And what would be the answer in a round table to the people affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020175934	Now there are various considerations about how IS has arisen. But at least there are some who have a story with that they have sprung out of al-Qaeda in the morning of time. And there I would say that what was done years ago at Al-Qaeda has not necessarily made them more sensible and treat people better. I think Denmark has a very, very great opportunity to help with the infrastructure in both Syria and Iraq by going down and saying: we can do something with politics; we can do something with building democracy. And it is not certain at all that democracy is what you want, but at least we can build some infrastructures. I think that will ensure much more peace and ensure many more lives than to bomb on or place a radar or something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180017	There are no more questioners on the list in this round. Thank you, sir. René Gade. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180028	Thank you very much, President. The Radical Left can support this motion for a resolution. And we can, because it is our firm belief that Denmark should be part of the coalition against ISIL and that we should contribute in all the areas, the five tracks on which the coalition is working, which characterise the fight against ISIL, including the military. I would like to say to those parties who choose to vote against this proposal that I understand that you can be in doubt, that I understand you are looking down and saying: 'Well, is this any use?' If the political forces in Iraq do not work in the same direction, if we do not resolve the chaos in Syria, if we do not stop funding, will the military contribution be helpful? These are questions that I think we all ask ourselves if not daily, so every time the speech falls on this. But I think the same parties owe it to us to answer the fundamental question: what would the alternative really be if we did not have the military track in our efforts against ISIL? I dare not think where Iraq would have been today if the coalition had not been there. Nor do I dare to think about where Syria, including Kobane, would have been today if the coalition had not also been present militarily. And every time I think about where Iraq and Syria would have been without the coalition, I am sure that the military contribution is also necessary, and if you reach that conclusion I think it is difficult to reach another country, then I think that Denmark should also contribute. And I think it makes sense that Denmark is contributing to the radar system as proposed, because our F-16s and our crew are going home and charging, if I may say so. On the other hand, I must also say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, who is here today, that I find it difficult to understand the speed with which the government wishes to adopt the next contribution that Denmark will make in a year's time. I'm not going to deny that we're going back with F-16s. Nor will I deny that it can make sense on individual missions in Syria if we can, of course, have a basis for doing what is right under international law. I think that is far too early to reject. But I do not think that you are per. The European Parliament will be able to give its full support to the Commission's proposals. What is the situation in Iraq? What is the situation in Syria in one year's time? Just the development of the last month with the Russian aircraft, which suddenly intervenes, shows that the situation can change very significantly. That is why I simply do not understand how busy it is to get to grips with precisely what Denmark is to contribute. It may well be that what the coalition wants for a year is greater humanitarian contributions, greater contributions in all sorts of other areas where Denmark is also among the best in the world. As I said, we are ready to consider a military contribution as well, but I do not understand the haste of the government to determine what is the right contribution to make in one year's time. I think we owe it to the Iraqis, the Syrians, the coalition and the Danes to consider it very carefully, including whether we have the capacity to do so in one year's time. We will take that debate at that time, just to say that we are not rejecting anything. But we also do not want to take part in the rather strange rivalry that exists to get a large number of F-16s sent out first. That can be done if it makes sense, but we will take a position on that when we get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180415	Thank you. There's one questioner, and that's sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180420	Thank you. That's because there's usually a little more reflection from the Radicals on these war issues. I would like to make that clear, because not many people are concerned with the cause of the chaotic situation. And there I would say to the Danes who do not want to acknowledge that Denmark has been a factor in the situation: because we left the country the way we did; because we disarmed the security forces; because we discarded one government and put another government into office which, moreover, suppressed the first group of people, we also have a responsibility that we need to reflect on to understand how to resolve conflicts in the future. People who close their eyes to it, I believe, fight blindly when they have to find solutions. That's one thing. The second point is that the international community has tried with two peace initiatives, Geneva I and Geneva II, but there is a third peace initiative missing. I guess we're gonna sit at a table sometime. I guess we need to get all the stakeholders together and figure out how to talk. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180530	Thank you. Yeah, and I'm sorry if mr. Christian Juhl doesn't think I've reflected enough. I tried to make a little effort, but let me just say it directly: I have not, in my time as Foreign Minister or subsequently, suggested to anyone that the military contributions could solve this problem. They can't. However, I have said that it would have been inconceivable what had happened had it not been attempted to stop ISIL also militarily, both in Iraq and in Syria. However, I agree with the Enhedslisten that it does not solve the problem in itself and that, of course, we need to think even more about how we can resolve the fundamental conflict from which all this arises, not least in Syria. Nor do I have any problem at all in saying that the war interventions that have taken place in Iraq over time have not exactly contributed to peaceful development in that part of the world and that mistakes were made when the then coalition left Iraq and it was not possible to protect the Sunni Muslim minority. I think I have been heard saying all this many times from the platform. It just doesn't change the fact that we are now in this situation and that we need to protect the civilian populations both in Iraq and in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180636	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180639	I would like to thank you for that. And I would like to call on the government to also take a reflexive attitude to it, because we are in a situation where the goal must be to get a Geneva III meeting or another meeting where we can get people to • by force or voluntarily • by sitting at a table to get an agreement going where we can take some first steps. They may be quite small, but we must sit back and I think we agree that the use of military in such a conflict here is the very last option. That is why we need to equip ourselves in the area where the West is too bad when we look at it widely.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180719	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180721	I thank you for that. I don't think there was a direct question for me in that. But perhaps I can ask the Foreign Minister, who will be taking the floor in a moment, if he could tell us a little about Denmark's position in the European Union in the question of whether more or less direct negotiations should be opened with Assad. I understand that at the moment there are different positions, among others. The United States and Germany advocate a more direct attempt to enter into negotiations with the regime in Damascus with a view to closing it, whereas other countries in the European Union want the opposite. Everyone agrees that Assad is not the solution in the future and that it must be a transition, but where does the Danish Government place itself in that debate? It would be interesting to hear if the Secretary of State could comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180804	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020180812	Thank you, President. We are pleased that the government has decided to withdraw the F-16s. One might say that this was also necessary after the criticism that came from the personnel this summer. It is obvious that when it was said so directly that it does not work with staff or equipment, it is not acceptable for us to continue that mission. We have no problem replacing the F-16 contribution with a radar. As I have already indicated in a few brief remarks, I think that we are making a less militarised contribution than in the past, and therefore I cannot understand why we cannot be opposed to better monitoring of airspace where we are going to operate. I myself was with the former Secretary of Defense on a flight in a transport plane between Kuwait and the Al Asad base in Iraq, and I can guarantee that I was very pleased that there was a clear awareness of what else was of aircraft in the air when we flew that trip I have to say. I certainly think it would have been quite awful if you had not been aware of what else was. So it is important for safety that we have an overview of the airspace. But then I must also say that, like Mr. Martin Lidegaard and Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, who has mentioned this, I am very surprised that the government seems to have already decided that we should re-submit the F-16 contribution. I think it is simply a hole in the head to use a popular expression. Because we don't know what the need is then. We do not know the situation in Iraq then. Nor are we aware of the situation in the Danish defence, where there are very, very serious economic problems and very, very serious problems with regard to the satisfaction of the personnel with being employed in the defence. And there are new challenges in relation to the neighbourhoods and new challenges in the Arctic. That is why we simply need to assess the future action in Iraq, in relation to what is otherwise of defence tasks and what can be done, but also in relation to how we get an analysis of the whole situation. It is quite strange that you do not want to analyse what the effect of the effort has been. I have no doubt that the Kurds have been helped by the Allied air mission. I'm not. However, there are some problems surrounding the Iraqi Government, as has been pointed out. And I suppose it will be even more intriguing that the Russians have now also gone and are apparently also working closely with the Iraqi Government. We know that the Iranians also operate in the air. That is to say, frankly, this is a wasp's nest, which then needs to be analysed in more detail: are we doing it right? Could we do anything else? Are we helping to get a solution to this? We are completely missing an analysis of this, and that is why you go straight out with your head under your arm in this, when you say that we per. Automatically send the F-16s again. I can only see it as an expression of the desire to show symbolic strength, i.e. that we are in the first place and so on. I do not think it is a good basis to conduct security policy on the Danish side, so we are very puzzled about that. However, as I have said, we are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. We consider this to be quite uncontroversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020181200	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020181217	The Conservative People's Party considers it very positive that a way has been found to continue Denmark's participation in the fight against Islamic State. We would also have liked to have seen a more powerful contribution, that is, that we could have continued with our F-16s, but we cannot demand the impossible of our soldiers and our planes. Then this solution has been found, which we trust is the best contribution. The government has had consultations with the coalition down there and has considered that this was the best contribution that could be made at the moment, and then we are Conservatives satisfied that it is done. We would like Denmark to come back with greater strength, but in general we also have to recognise the situation, which is that our capacity to deploy forces is not sufficient at the moment. Because of a general saving in defence over the past many years, we do not have quite the capacity that we should have, and we must, of course, have this right. We need to secure a defence with a greater capacity. However, we warmly support the fight against the Islamic State. It is one of the most terrible movements the world has seen for many decades. It is a genocideist terrorist organisation that must be defeated and eradicated. There is not much positive to say about it at all, and I find it very difficult to understand, morally speaking, that some people may have any scruples about us holding down the Islamic State. One can always have the approach that war is of no use, but I think that those who have lost family members who have been subjected to genocide and rape and have been taken as slaves and have been sold are very pleased that some Western countries are taking part in the fight against the Islamic State. I also think we can be satisfied ourselves that we are taking part in this fight against the Islamic State, because they are also causing problems for us in Denmark. Even as far away as up here, we can see that there are now flows of refugees that are directly derived from genocide and what is worse in the areas where the Islamic State operates. So it is also in Denmark's own interest that we continue to make contributions and ensure that the Islamic State is defeated. It is my impression that the Danish soldiers are doing very well. I was just like several of the other defence rapporteurs down there recently and got the impression that a really good job has been done by our F-16 pilots and the other personnel who have been deployed there. Those who help train the Iraqi army down there must also be very grateful for their efforts, and I also wish them every success. I hope they will make as great a difference as the soldiers we have had deployed so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020181517	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one to speak, that of the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020181534	Thank you to the parties supporting the broadcasting of the radar contribution. There are three comments, comments with which I would like to say a few words on the road. It's for the two debutantes, sir. René Gade from the Alternative and Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten, whom I congratulate, and the third is a debutante from back in December 1981, namely Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, with whom I would also like to make a comment on the road. And I'll take them in order. Mrs Eva Flyvholm is asking where the information coming out of radar surveillance ends. Well, they will be picked up at a U.S. control center in the United Arab Emirates, and the U.S. military authorities have informed the defense that the information will be subject to control measures preventing the spread of data outside the coalition. So I don't think that's a concern that should be taken into account when deciding on this radar contribution. I also understood that there were many other reasons for this, which I also disagree with. But it's more to take the factual here. The second comment is on the alternative's, sir. René Gade, who said that there has been a survey in the defence, which showed that there are some tasks to have been looked at and that there are some problems to have solved, and therefore no radar contribution has been sent out. I think that is simply talking the Danish defence down in a way that is quite unreasonable. What the rapporteur says is that because there are some consequences of major restructuring in defence and changing a structure and an education system, it means that Danish defence cannot contribute anywhere or in any way. That is simply wrong. It is said that because we have some aircraft mechanics who have been deployed many times and therefore need to get a break I think that was said then we cannot send out an airplane contribution. So, it is to take one problem and then actually find that out of the almost 20,000 men who are in Danish defence, no one can do anything. That is basically what is said here from the platform. I can reject that, it is wrong, and I think it is also unfair to the Danish defence. It was actually a little the same as the 1981 debutante, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen, mentioned by saying that there is a dissatisfaction in the defence and that this is a cause for concern, which should then be included in the picture in relation to the re-exportation of the F-16 aircraft. As I said, I completely disagree with that. But maybe a discussion about it, but I think it must be based on parameters other than the question of whether there is a discontent in the defence. In other words, the way in which the government addresses the question is looking at: what is the need? What are the reports from the coalition? What is the real situation in Iraq? And then, of course, there will be a dialogue with the Defence about what the military professional attitude is, and from that a conclusion will be drawn which will of course have to be discussed in the Folketing. But once again I think it seems to me to make the problems too big to say that because it has been found through a survey that there are some challenges, no contribution from the Danish military to anywhere in the world can be made at this stage. It is also the same as saying that Danish defence with almost 20,000 people is not able to solve any task at all. And I disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182016	Thank you. There are two authors on the list for the time being. The first is sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182023	I would like to thank the Secretary of Defense for his congratulations. At the very few meetings we have had so far, I have had a very positive impression, and I still have that away. I understand the concern for the Danish defence, and I have really tried in my first months as a peace and defence rapporteur to come out and talk to all parts of the Danish defence. I think I now have appointments almost everywhere. What I am sorry about is that you do not want to enter into a dialogue on whether we can be anywhere at once. It's not the radar that makes me think we're under pressure here at home. That is the fact that you will be everywhere because we have to say yes every time a story comes up in the media about a place we should be. This effort has been going on for a long time, and I can well understand that an effort has to be made in Iraq, but I am sorry that the Mr report is seen as just another one. There are so many in the defense, more than 40% I think are actively seeking away. I believe that, as in the business community where I come from, we should go in and say: if this is the status quo right now, perhaps we should look inwards before we go out and contribute elsewhere. We need to make sure that the men we send out have ownership in the right place. And that's where I think we owe our defenses something.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182132	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182135	It would be wrong to conclude that, on top of an analysis of employee satisfaction, where it is pointed out that there are a number of things, moreover, many different things that need to be adjusted, changed, corrected, handled, said that the production that can then be held in the defence is zero. And that's not true either when Mr. René Gade says if anyone calls, we have to bring something. No, it's not the government's approach. But when we are part of a coalition that sets out some needs that are, we are actively going in and looking at it, and that is also the case with the radar contribution here. We say: are there any of the needs that have been set up that we can help meet? And that's the radar contribution. There we say, moreover, in dialogue with the defence: can we make a contribution here? And yes, we can, and the radar contribution is not something that is inserted elsewhere. That is why it is not a function or a contribution that brings about a massive shift in resources, in other words, compared with the arguments about the F-16s that needed a break.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182300	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182303	I would like to say straight away that I am not pointing any finger at anyone personally here, nor at the direction of the defence. It is more a general view of how to cooperate, Christiansborg and the defence between. I think that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence have today been very, very good at responding clearly and clearly. One of the things we have asked for in the alternative is that we have this debate where we really want to answer. I think that in every way we've gotten that. That is why I also think it is a pity that we ignore the fact that it is going to touch the core competences when we go out and say we have to save more than 2 billion. kr. in the defense. In any case, I am used to it in the business world, saying, as a leader, that it can be done much better than it is today, because otherwise it will have to cost something somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182343	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182345	I think that is a slightly different debate, that is, a debate on what defence as a whole can deliver in both the short and the long term. But right now it is the alternative that turns it upside down by saying that, in the present defence agreement, we have had to find 2.7 billion. kr., you can't send out a radar contribution. It is the alternative that is in the process of reversing the argument. There's what I'm saying, I think that's wrong. And I am quite sure that when the Danish Parliament decides today to send out a radar contribution, it will turn out that we will be able to see that it is a task that the defence can also solve and will do well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182441	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182445	The 1981 Debutante, yes, yes! But I now think that the Secretary of Defense should take it a little more seriously what is such a problem in defence. I am also talking to people there, and we should not scrub the surface too much until it becomes clear that there is real concern and also dissatisfaction. They say: Listen, you cannot say on the one hand that we have to do everything, and on the other hand do not give us the resources to do it. That's why you're worn out. And the defense won't say they need so much money. You know that money to be given to defence is taken from welfare areas, and they do not want to take responsibility for that either. They want some more money, but they say it's okay if you decide to give less money. But then the tasks must also be organized according to it, and priority must be given to it. It is the link between priorities and tasks and so resources that is the big problem and also the big topic of conversation. And the Minister will have to deal with this more seriously than he did before.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182555	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182557	I am very serious about that. But it is here during the debate on the radar contribution that it has begun to argue that the defence challenges mean that it is a problem that we either send out this radar contribution or consider whether there is a need to re-run the F-16s. I am not the one who is making a conclusion that because there are some challenges in defence, you will not be able to produce anything from now on. What I'm trying to argue hard for is that the defense can do a lot. And now we should not have a conclusion that says that because there are some challenges, we will not be able to come up with any production or contribution from now on until those challenges are resolved. I think the defense would be very sad too, so if our conclusion was that there was really nothing we could ask them to help solve from now on and then the next year's time. But let me return to what was the starting point for the discussion, namely whether there are any challenges in the defence: there, in turn, I would say that yes, it shows the HR measurement. That is what the defence leadership is saying quite clearly, that is to say that some things have to be adjusted. There, together with a task force, you are looking at what solutions can be implemented in both the short and the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182730	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182732	I agree about that radar thing... bad with it. Of course, you can handle it. What I am more concerned with is the discussion about whether to send the planes back. And will the Minister of Defence not admit that it is necessary to see in the context of the other problems and challenges facing the defence, that is to say that one has to put it both into a resource discussion, but also in a discussion about what tasks the defence should take care of? We know that there are several tasks to be dealt with in the neighbourhood, among others. there is the Arctic to which you have to relate, and then you still have some tasks to do internationally. We can't do it all. We just can't. That is why I would like to ask the Minister again: is it not necessary to see a possible new F-16 flight in the context of the other security policy tasks we face and the resource problems facing the defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182839	Yeah, I actually agree with that. So that every contribution must be seen in the context of what else is provided by the Danish defence, and that any contribution is also based on a military professional attitude, which is not only an assessment of whether you can solve the task, but also of whether you have the resources to solve the task. That should be the starting point for any decision. And an assessment of whether a task can be carried out in the form of a re-submission of the F-16 contribution includes looking at the support services, and this also includes considering whether cooperation with other countries can be achieved in relation to the support provided by such a contribution. But that is something that we can certainly have a thorough debate on if the government decides to re-submit the F-16 contribution, which much suggests may be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182939	Thank you. There are no more questioners in this round. I thank the Minister for Defence and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020182949	My thanks, too, for your comments. I would like to add a few words to some of the words that were said and also say a little about the government's position on the fight against ISIL. We are faced with a terrorist organisation that we in the world community need to stand together to combat. This is a serious and concrete threat, not only to Syria and Iraq and the countries of the Middle East, but also to our security in the West. It is an organisation that has shown that it can strike outside the area and an organisation that has shown that it can spread its tentacles to other fragile states. I am thinking of Libya, where we have also seen that they have been active. And those of us who have had the opportunity to hear the testimony of people who have been trapped or have met ISIL, I think I never forget their stories. So this is a critical situation, also because we see, of course, that thousands of refugees from the conflict in Syria, among others. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. It is clear to me and to the government that ISIL cannot be defeated without a strong and sustained effort from a global and joint coalition, and we in the government want Denmark to continue to take responsibility and also contribute significantly to the military part of the coalition. With a proposal for a radar contribution, we want to play a concrete role and make a concrete contribution to the coalition in relation to the overall effort. We are proposing that engagement should also be extended to Syria, as radar is now being placed in a place where it picks up objects from the airspace across both Iraq and Syria. Indeed, ISIL operates without regard to borders, and ISIL's ability to lead battle-prepared forces from defensive positions in Syria until offensive positions in Iraq is one of the reasons why they stand so strong. That is why we need to fight ISIL in both Iraq and Syria. We must also be honest and say that this does not end in a short time. It will be a long and hard struggle, and along the way there will be both challenges and backward steps. The soldiers with whom we work are not always of the kind we would like, which also helps to underline the need for our efforts. I should also like to make a few comments on some of the points that have been made. Wait a minute, President. I'll be back. Now I can better remember what was said. First of all, I am sorry that Mrs Flyvholm is no longer present, but as Enhedslisten is represented here anyway, I have a few comments to make. The Minister for Defence has informed what is happening in connection with the information that is being picked up by the Danish radar, so I would just like to say something about what Mrs Eva Flyvholm has mentioned and others from the Enhedslisten have been so concerned about, namely that Denmark should make a special effort specifically towards the Kurds. Just to understand how we work together in the coalition, it is the way to meet and discuss what is needed to provide services, and then countries join in with some things, depending on what they have the opportunity to deliver. And we deliver from what is a demand on the part of the coalition, and not from what some in the Folketing could have a desire for to be delivered. Because if everyone wants to deliver the same thing to the same part of the coalition, we would not have the strongest team to fight ISIL. This means that Denmark has previously contributed with the transport of equipment and equipment specifically to the Kurds. The task, including the task of training and equipped Kurdish forces, is now carried out by other parts of the coalition. And we are fulfilling the task that we have taken on ourselves, namely a state contribution and a training task, and now with the adoption of the motion for a resolution here we have a radar broadcast. I think it is wise for the coalition to work together and coordinate who delivers what. It is much wiser that we coordinate what we do rather than follow the lead that each country should, as it were, have its favourite part of the effort and pursue it. Then I would say to Mr. René Gade, who said that "A" has been said, must also be said "B," "No," it is not allowed. This is absolutely not something to be taken lightly, and I should like to say that all the times I have sat in the Chamber and voted to send Danish troops, it has never been something I have taken lightly. And it has never been the case that one day a decision made it necessary to make another decision the next day. Every decision must be able to stand a test in itself, in other words in relation to whether it is right and wise, and I see no reason why neither Denmark nor other countries in the coalition should bring ground troops into the conflict. I believe that what is necessary is to train the ground troops present, namely the Kurdish peshmega forces in the north and the Iraqi security forces in the south, and to ensure that they have the right tools and tools to carry out that task. The coalition will then be able to provide the logistical support and that, you might say, heavier military support in the form of artillery and aircraft etc. needed to make the coalition work effectively. In relation to the question of who it is you are working with and it is also a little for Enhedslisten and Mrs Eva Flyvholm I will not draw any picture that Iraq is a seamless society. However, I would like to emphasise that President Abadi is doing more than the predecessors who have been to create an inclusive Iraq in which the various ethnic groups and religious groups work together, and more to involve and accountable forces in the event of attacks on the civilian population. I think we should support President Abadi's ability to work in this direction instead of saying that if you are not, exactly as we would like, we will not work with them. It is a very, if you say, cost-free attitude to have, that is, if people do not meet our criteria, we will not work with them. In relation to what happens next and whether Denmark participates in UN missions it is also a little for Mr. René Gade then the matter is that there are currently 16 active peace missions under the auspices of the United Nations. Denmark actively participates in at least four of them, based on what I can think of from my own memory. It is in Sudan where Ellen Margrethe lied is the UN Special Envoy. It is very much in Mali where we are considering what we should be forward-looking, and it is in the Middle East and Liberia, and there are a large number of other places where Denmark has been involved. So we're in it, both when we talk about peacemaking and peacekeeping. The only thing is that in this area there will be no political solution if there is no military presence. The parties currently in conflict in Iraq and Syria will never sit at a negotiating table unless there is a military muscle pushing the parties to do so. On the other hand, I do not believe that we can have a military solution without a political debate and a political agreement in this area. The thing is, we can't pressure these people to want to meet if they believe that they with military forces can get a better position on the ground. Therefore, the two things are inextricably linked, and Denmark must deliver both. That was said earlier by both Mr. Martin Lidegaard and Mr. René Gade, that Denmark is really, really good at humanitarian matters. Yes, we are. But we're actually really, really good at the military. Danish military contributions have received very good comments from our partners, no matter where they have been deployed and what conflict they have been in. This applies to our F-16s, our ground troops and our training troops, as well as to our special forces when they have been deployed. We're really good at both. The fact is, this is a conflict that does not just have to be resolved militarily. It needs to be resolved in a wide range of areas, and Denmark helps to combat ISIL by at least five different routes. Furthermore, we are involved in the issue of foreign fighters, that is to say, stopping Danish young people who go down and participate on ISIL's side, and we are also helping to limit their financial opportunities. I believe that if we could stop the illegal oil sales that ISIL is currently making on, we would be able to slow them down much more quickly. In addition, we are doing so in terms of rebuilding communities where we have repressed ISIL. For one of the problems is that when ISIL is withdrawn, there is a society that needs a helping hand to get back on its feet. Denmark is very actively present, also in terms of building civil society through the Arab Initiative, where we use a number of the funds we have to support NGOs and civil society exactly in those areas where it is possible to do so. But it also requires a military force to push ISIL back so that we can start building societies. Finally, we do so not least in order to combat the narrative or narrative they have that they, like, stand for Islam's true interpretation. We do this by supporting those who document the genocide they commit and the atrocities that happen, where ISIL is present. So we don't have just one tool. We have at least five tools in the box, and that is why I do not understand the alternative's view that we do not want to be involved in all five. Of the five areas, I do not think that any of them can be spared. That is why I do not understand that the alternative will not be included here too. Finally, I would just like to say that I welcome the fact that there is a broad majority in favour of the resolution, and I also hope that the broad majority will be in favour of the second reading of the proposal shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184103	There are two inquirers enrolled. The first is sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184108	We deliver on request, said the Minister. Yeah, that's a good idea. It would be stupid if everyone came with a radar. When the Minister says that others are training the Kurds, I would like to ask: who are the others? What are they delivering to the Kurds? It would be a good idea for us too to have an overall picture of it, for it is wise to work together. It is wise to solve all the tasks, it is wise not to forget any of the fronts, especially some of the fronts, which are perhaps most central. And then I would like to know who is delivering at diplomatic and negotiating level to promote an opportunity to have a debate on a solution down there that can stop the need for a military.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184203	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184206	As has also been mentioned in Foreign Policy Name earlier, it is the case that Denmark previously participated in delivering the transport contribution to the Kurds. Other countries have taken over that now. I cannot tell you exactly who, but it is the case that we agreed in the coalition that there should be training and equipment for two more Kurdish battalions, which we jointly pay for both training and equipment, so that we provide equipment and training so that the Kurds become more effective. There has been a dialogue in which the Kurdish partners in northern Iraq have indicated a need for training and equipment to counter attacks by chemical, biological and radiological weapons. It was noted and will be addressed in the forthcoming training plans. With regard to the diplomatic side, for the first time in two and a half years, the European Union has chosen a common solution and has taken a common position, which means that the European Union's common foreign service can now go in and exert diplomatic pressure with the Americans to get the regional parties in the region, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Turkey to play an active role in finding a solution to Assad. I do not believe that Assad can be part of the solution, and I cannot imagine that he could be part of a transitional period of very long duration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184327	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184330	No, but when it comes to negotiating and finding diplomatic solutions, remember to keep the door open. After all, there is a slip, and I remember that there were a lot of people who were not allowed to be in Geneva I, among others. The Russians and the Iranians, and there were also some who were not in Geneva II, although we all agreed that we should negotiate peace with our enemies. Hopefully, Geneva III will be a more open forum in which we will bring together those who have authority and who can say yes or no on behalf of our opponents. After all, in order to succeed, it is important to have dialogue in order to put pressure on all of them. Then I would like to ask you a small detail. The minister mentioned Ellen Margrethe lie and that we have people in South Sudan. It is a very, very small contribution, as far as I remember. Will he tell us how many we have out of the thousands that are down there?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184422	We have seen one of the most important aller als, namely Ellen Margrethe Løj, who is the UN Secretary-General's special envoy, and thus the leader of it. It is true that we do not have a major contribution. We can't have that anywhere. Fortunately, there are very many countries that contribute to the peacekeeping force, and that is why it is not an end in itself to be most present in the widest possible places. The goal must be to be present in the right places in relation to what the Danish capacity is. In relation to the forthcoming negotiations, I do not think that it will be me or the Danish Parliament who will decide exactly who will meet. However, when I mentioned earlier who I think we need to talk to and who the EU's foreign service is talking to, it is Iran, it is Saudi Arabia, then it is Turkey, it is Quatar, and it is of course Russia, the United States and the European Union that must sit at the table. And the Syrian opposition as a whole must also be represented, since they have begun to work together a little more than we have seen in the past. In my optics not enough, but you work more together than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184529	Thank you. The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184533	I want to make sure we understand each other. When I say that when you say "A," you have to say "B," that is not an eternal truth. But what I mean here is that on the basis of what I have talked to people about, I have the impression that when soldiers are sent out, they are so committed and so dedicated that it is very rare that you ask a lot. One acts and solves the tasks with bravour, as the Foreign Minister also tells the Danish defence does. I think we're absolutely at the top. What has happened is that many of the veterans who have come home have looked back at what actually happened, and then they are one big question mark and think: yes, what actually happened? And that is where I say that when you have said A, you must also say B. Many soldiers say that what it takes to win the war down there is ground forces. And if we then say that it is the locals, the Iraqis, who have to do it, and then you look at how our training programmes are going down there, then I would have a very strange feeling when the defense's senior employees say down there that the Iraqis don't want to help solve this conflict. Then I think it must be hard to go out as a Danish soldier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184636	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184638	I also think it is hard to go out as a Danish soldier, and therefore there is reason to praise all those who have been out. I also believe that along the way we have become much, much better at accepting them when they come back, both with our entire veteran policy, but also in terms of being able to describe what their efforts have meant for the political objective of the broadcast. I continue to believe that when we look at what forces are present in the area, both the Kurdish forces from the north of Iraq and the Iraqi security forces in the area, we can see that there is no problem that there are too few ground forces. It is almost a problem that there are too many right now. And I think that, in particular, the fact that Hezbollah, the Iranian Republican Guard and Russia have arrived with land forces makes the problem bigger. Our clear appeal to Russia on the part of both Denmark and the European Union is in such a way that they are stepping up the conflict instead, as they are doing at the moment, to escalate the conflict. That is why I am saying that I do not think there is any reason why Danish land forces should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184741	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184743	Nor is it so much to talk about Danish land forces going down there or the fear of it. It is more about the fact that I would like to point out that if you choose to step up and escalate, so more forces are needed, you will certainly have a problem in the Danish defence, because the resources are as scarce as they are right now. And from what the veterans tell us, I actually think that the reason why you close the Iraq Commission must be that there is something that you do not want to get out that is worse than what you are experiencing right now. The reason why you close the Iraq Commission is simply that you want to stick to something. The Danish people are wondering what this is really going to do, and there is then a responsibility from our veterans. I do not really think it is the Government's wish that this is the case, but that is what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184832	We are not closing the Iraq Commission because there is something that must not come out. We close it because we believe that what is relevant has come out. What is relevant is what the basis for our choosing to go to war was. We chose to go to war on the basis of B 118 from the parliamentary assembly 2002-2003. And if you find a commonly printed version, you will be able to see on page 3 under IV a large number of reasons why Denmark chose to go to war. And these are things that were factually verifiable. It was that Saddam Hussein did not cooperate with the UN Security Council. It was that UN Security Council Resolution 1441 had been violated. It was that cooperation with UN weapons inspectors was a prerequisite for the peaceful disarmament of Iraq. It was that they said that it had been in vain to cooperate between the weapons inspectors and Iraq and so on. etc. We had a very clear basis for why Denmark went to war, and therefore it was political teasing to set up an Iraq Commission. We believe that this was a waste of money, and that is why we chose to close it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184937	Thank you. We still have two questioners on the list. The next one is sir. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020184943	I could understand from the Minister that he is doing a lot of talking al-Abadi up to be a man with whom we have to work and that he, like, is some progressive role in all this. However, I have to ask whether, according to the Minister, it is not a problem that the Russians have now entered into very, very close cooperation with Al-Abadi. Those who cross missiles they send off against Syria from the Caspian Sea are, if I may say so, coordinated with the Iraqi Government, for they must fly over Iraq to get to Syria. We are also working very closely with the Iraqis on intelligence activities, and this is also the case with the Iranians. The fact that Russia has entered, I fully agree, is extremely, very problematic because they support Assad in Syria. And it is a little strange that al-Abadi is contributing to the cooperation initiated by the Baghdad government with the Russians.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185056	I think that when it comes to dealing with Iraq, we must bear in mind that everything is relative. And when al-Abadi is a good ally, it is seen relative to his predecessor, and because we can see that al-Abadi has a more inclusive approach to things. He is more trying to unite, and he has a more progressive attitude towards integrating the religious and ethnic parts of the Iraqi army, not that it is necessarily progressive, but that, after all, more progressive I also think there are problems in terms of how there is cooperation with Iran and with Russia. But that does not mean that we should say that then we cannot cooperate with al-Abadi. We need to do that if we want to stick together on Iraq, and we need to do so if we want to have some in the current leadership in Iraq who are trying to take to heart the things we have said to them and try to do better than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185200	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185204	The Foreign Minister must acknowledge that it is such a rather strange situation that we have this very close cooperation with a man who works as closely with them as we are actually opposed to. And that really means Assad in Syria, for it is he who the Russians support. Would the Minister not agree that it is a very serious problem that Russia has gone in as they have done and supports Assad and that the Iranians are doing so, and that it is a problem that al-Abadi contributes to their ability to do so? Surely there must be some reflection on what this presents to us in the coalition and on how we can deal with the whole situation not only around the IS but also about having Assad removed in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185301	I think I mentioned, even before Holger K. Nielsen asked, that I believe that Russia's participation is a huge problem. It escalates the conflict and it makes it difficult to find a solution. That doesn't mean we don't cooperate with the Russians. We are trying on the part of the coalition to establish a cooperation agreement with Russia in order to clarify when they are flying and when the coalition is flying, so that we do not accidentally make an extra escalation in the form of direct combative contact between Russian aircraft and coalition aircraft. So we need to work together and we need to recognise that there are some facts in the region that make this complicated. That doesn't mean that everything Al-Abadi does is right. But I just think we should recognise that he is trying to play a more inclusive role than his predecessor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185348	The next question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185352	Thank you. As you know, we are in favour of the motion for a resolution. I had two questions in my speech which I think the Secretary of State, in the midst of all the turmoil, did not get along. One was the question of how Denmark stands in the apparently coalition debate about the political track, including how close one should go to the regime in Damascus. It's a difficult question, there's no need to hide it. I am just interested to know where Denmark is going in the debate where the United States and Germany seem to want to conclude some kind of preliminary agreement with the regime in Damascus, while other countries are moving in the other direction. That was my first question. My second question was as follows: what is really the motivation that the government wants to announce already now, that we must send just so many F-16s off in one year when the situation can develop in many different directions within the next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185453	Let me start from behind. The reason why we are announcing that we are going to re-run the F-16s is that we would both like to send a clear signal to our own personnel about what is our intention and will already start a discussion about what we are doing if the situation has not changed or improved. I fear that this is a long-standing conflict that we are in, and that is why we must also start to make our own reflections in Denmark about what kind of mandate we are sending out the F-16s. I hope with all my heart that the situation has changed so that there is no reason to send the F-16s when they are ready. I think it's just unrealistic. On the question of where we stand in relation to Assad, I would say that we have the clear view, together with the rest of the European Union, that the current leadership cannot be part of the solution and there is a need for a transition, a transition, to move away from the current leadership to another leadership in order to bring about a lasting peace. There are some nuances to how the transition should be. Some want a very quick and short transition, and some look more openly at that it may take longer. But what was previously disputed was whether there should be a transition at all, i.e. whether Assad could be part of the final solution. There is now a consensus within the EU circle that he cannot be. There has to be a change, so the current leadership has to go away.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185615	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185619	I think that agreement has been there for some time now. But I am very pleased with the clarification that there is a nuance difference where some then imagine a short transition and others a longer one. There are some nuances, but these are not indifferent nuances, what the Foreign Minister knows very well, and where is Denmark in that discussion? That was the one question, that is, about the nuan, I think. The second is: let us imagine and here, unfortunately, I share the pessimism of the Foreign Minister, a situation in which the entire map of Syria, God forbid, changes dramatically as a result of the entry of Russia and Iran and so on. Then one can imagine a situation in which other parts of the coalition too do not think it is a very good idea to intervene directly militarily in that scenario. Is it not a little early to take that debate before we know how the situation develops over the next few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185716	As Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said so well earlier, we are today taking a decision on a radar contribution and not on an F-16 contribution. And when we in the government have said what our intention is, it is to indicate what we want to do. But we have not made a decision, because it is clear that in order to make a concrete decision we need to know what the situation on the ground is and what the situation is in relation to the alliance. Unfortunately, I think it will be necessary to take a concrete decision on a quite robust mandate to send out the F-16 again. I hope not, but I think so. In relation to where we stand, I believe that if a lasting solution is to be found, it is necessary to involve the moderate Syrian opposition, and for me it indicates that the transition period with Assad must be as short as possible. I recognise that, in order to find a solution, it is necessary to find a transition in which both Russian interests in order to be present in the region and also, for that matter, Iranian interests find a solution. Unfortunately, at the moment it is a little unclear what the Iranians are really interested in. That is why I believe that the Baath Party, from which Assad comes, may play a role in a longer transitional solution than Assad itself can.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185836	We thank the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185855	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Henrik Dam Kristensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020185935	These are three exciting and, indeed, important statements that we are debating here today. I think that the statements actually show that in all three areas concrete progress is being made, which is quite good. I don't want to dwell so much on the statements themselves, most of which is some kind of storytelling somewhere. Of course, what is more interesting is what is forward-looking in them. I would like to say that the statements on Nordic co-operation, in particular, are going down in important areas that we need to work on in concrete terms, and that is how we are going to be in session in Iceland next week. For some years now, I have had the pleasure of being a little on and off compared to Nordic co-operation, and what I think is enjoyable every time when you return to Nordic co-operation is that it is becoming more and more politicised; it is becoming more and more policy in the positive way. It is still cozy and enjoyable and all that, but there is also more and more concrete policy in it. The reform work that we were able to do, when Denmark last held the Presidency, has continued, and I can see from the session that is coming now that it means that there are more and more political decisions under discussion and that there is a greater political commitment. I think that is quite, very good in itself. That is why we must call for this reform work to continue. I think that is absolutely crucial, because that is what can help to show the Nordic added value. We have also examined the budget in the Nordic countries, as in many other places, and there have been cuts, but that is something that can be dealt with. I also think that when you look at the more general debates on society, you can see that they can give rise to reflection. And I actually think that if you were back in 2008-2009 it was as far as I remember there had been more precise follow-up to what the then minister in this area, Mr. Bertel Haarder, addressed the whole health issue, so some of the discussions we have had in Denmark, but also in the other Nordic countries, about the way in which doctors can sneak around, if there are problems with their authorisation and their professionalism, had previously led to an identification of the real problems. It is therefore a question of some concrete examples of Nordic parliamentarians identifying real problems across the board, and I think this is quite excellent in relation to concrete Nordic cooperation. Another area which is also very much covered in the report is border barriers. It is not a problem, after all, to set great, clear and well-worked things up about how much we can earn by reducing border barriers. There is no doubt that we are shooting ourselves a little in the foot, because there are too many places where we have not made it easy and unbureaucratic to work together across the Nordic region. I think that the work that is being done in committee and around the ministries I myself have also experienced what Minister ^ shows that we are constantly moving in that area. But there is no doubt that if we do not keep focusing on it all the time, nothing is moving. We must also focus on the way in which we implement EU directives so that we do not help to create new border barriers here. I think it is important that the issue of border barriers fills so much, because it is something that can help boost Nordic co-operation and be of good economic and also job benefit to all of us. Cultural work takes up a lot and is important for Nordic co-operation. There are plenty of places where we do something cross-cutting that helps to ensure that the cultural background we have is strengthened, and this helps to give us a better approach to the whole globalised world. And let us not forget that the Nordic prices mean something. They help to give the Nordic co-operation profile, which I think is very, very good. Let me also say a few words about the Arctic. This is one of the places where not only in the Nordic context, but in general, we are going to use a lot of energy in the coming years. There are some changes that are going to take shape, and many of us are looking forward to the Minister for Defence making a statement on the Arctic at some point. I think that's gonna be important. With the climate change in the Arctic, the area will play an increasingly important role in defence policy, and the whole debate on sovereignty will mean something, including in relation to the material purchases, etc. that we are doing in the future. And then there is the whole question of the continental shelf. These things are only in their infancy now, so in the coming months and years the Arctic will fill up a lot. Then I look to my pleasure that sometimes there are things that move a little bit. I remember when I had the presidency last time, there was, among other things. a conference in the Faroe Islands, which was about two things: what we do in terms of ship safety and what we do in relation to charts, as the ice changes. The nightmare is, in fact, that a cruise ship, for example, crashes in the waters around Greenland. What, then, are the options? There have now been some international rules in this area, but I have no doubt that even more needs to be done, and that is one of the things I think we should focus on. And, of course, we also need to focus on sea and map reading, which is also absolutely crucial. What I think is the good thing about Nordic co-operation is that it is becoming more and more concrete. To put it a little generalizing, it has gone from a little too much to talking and then to becoming concrete. And when we are going to have the Presidency next year, we in Denmark will try to make it even more concrete by having issues which mean that there will be joint discussions and that some joint conclusions will also be drawn in the Nordic area. I think there are three areas in particular that are pressing. It is defence cooperation, to which I shall return at a later stage today, it is health cooperation, and then it is the Nordic Region and tourism. As far as health is concerned, I have no doubt, as I said earlier, that something is going on when it comes, for example. the medical certificate is valid. After all, we have had a Danish election campaign, which among other things. was about expensive medicine prices. Is there any chance that we can do something from the Nordic team here? So there are, I think, many similarities in terms of health care, even though there are differences. We need to be better at being concrete and precise about this. The same applies to tourism. In fact, I think we have not quite understood that if you do not come so terribly far south of Flensburg, the Nordic Region is seen as a large whole, and that is why it is perhaps not so much about competing whether tourists come to one country or another, but perhaps about starting to ensure that they come to the Nordic countries. These are very specific areas on which I think we should focus our attention and which I hope we will help to highlight. Let me conclude by saying that the development there is towards more politicisation and the political debate thrives better in Nordic co-operation, I think is a positive development.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020190709	Mrs Aleqa Hammond for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020190725	I would like to ask the rapporteur about the measures that the rapporteur mentions as an improvement in the area of defence in the Arctic. I agree with the rapporteur that the Arctic will require greater attention and investment in the near future, and so I would like to ask: when the rapporteur says that improvements need to be made as regards the Danish presence in the Arctic, what is meant by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020190756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020190758	I would like to say to Mrs Aleqa Hammond that I made two observations. One was that the Arctic naturally comes more and more on the agenda... you can see that for a number of I mentioned quite a few of them here. The second was that we are now awaiting the statement by the Secretary of Defense on the Arctic. It's the one that's supposed to start the Danish debate in this area, and I still have a hope that it's coming sometime in this assembly. But we have to wait and see. My point is that, in terms of both the continental shelf in terms of sea routes and the whole of the great political game, the Arctic has filled a lot. But my claim is that it is going to fill more in the years to come and that more Danish forces need to be used to pay attention to this. I fully understand that there is so much in the areas that have been taken home by Greenland, and therefore there must still be a sensible interaction and an exchange of views in this area, and Denmark and Greenland must support each other in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020190902	Mrs Aleqa Hammond for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020190906	Since Greenland is the Arctic part of the Commonwealth and turns 20 per cent. of the entire Arctic, we really have much to say in the Arctic area. But it is also an important area to bet on really hard. We also know that Norway has declared that the Arctic is their most important foreign policy area. It shows quite so much about the greater commitment to Arctic relations. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is only in the military and in the base area that there should be improvements in relation to what is happening now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020190943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020190946	No, it's not. But you can say that this is where you may have the two things that are pressing and where we have not debated enough. I mentioned charts as an example and new shipping routes. There will be commercial discussions in a number of areas where I also believe there will be conflicts in the Arctic Council in the coming years. So it is the whole palette that has changed, primarily for climate reasons. That is what has done, after all, that there are some discussions that we did not have 15 years ago or, for that matter, ten years ago, but which we have now. And my point with what I said here today is that it has come up in a different gear, and we must take this very, very seriously in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191027	The brief remark led to Mr. Christian Juhl was inspired by a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191034	Yes, of course. 'Cause when sir... Henrik Dam Kristensen is on the platform, you can only be inspired. I would like to hear the Socialist rapporteur on page 2 of the Arctic statement, that is. the one we've got at this meeting, not the Secretary of Defense's statement. It says: "Denmark is a strong advocate of granting observer status to the EU in the Arctic Council. ▪ If so, what is the position of the Social Democrats on this and why? The second is that in August 2013 the EU introduced trade sanctions against the Faroe Islands, as negotiations between coastal states on the distribution of Atlanto-Scandian herring did not produce results. to dock in Danish ports and deliver their fish?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191129	Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191132	That fish discussion has been long and intense for many years now, and I think that even Mr. Christian Juhl must acknowledge that in that situation we had different roles, and we each assumed them. The Faroe Islands had their role, and Denmark had its role. This was the result of European cooperation that we are involved in. As far as the European Union is concerned, I also believe that it is important that in these areas, of course, we also involve the European Union. It is an important partner, not only for us, but for a number of countries that are also engaged in the Arctic. So I do not see any particular challenge or problem in that, perhaps on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191220	Would you like to make another brief comment? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191224	Now we have discussed the reservation of law earlier this afternoon, and there are serious problems with, for example, the fact that, in the United Kingdom, for example, there is a lack of transparency. The Faroe Islands are not even allowed to vote on important things that are going to affect them, and some strange situations are going to arise. What I want to ask is in the report on Nordic co-operation. There are no page numbers here, because it is in the annexes. It is about that with the border barriers, and it says: "Acknowledgment of professional qualifications (autorisation) '. I think that is a good thing for us to coordinate, but what is the position of the Socialists that we have actually abolished in Denmark now, for example. the authorisation for translators? That is to say, we have a wild market without knowing whether it is professional people we have to translate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191318	The Nordics come widely around and have many ramifications. So I think I'll just say that exactly what Mr. Christian Juhl points out here is one of those obstacles which means that the labour force does not flow in a sensible way, namely when in relation to authorisations etc. do not ensure that there is transparency in it. That is also why, in my rapporteur's speech, I made a great deal of the whole issue of border barriers, because I think that there is as much overall benefit for the Nordic countries by removing as many border barriers as possible. The total gain is both in relation to the economy and to jobs and development. So there is a great deal to be done in this area, and I think that is an important priority, as I also expressed in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191403	Another questioner has volunteered. This is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191412	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your contribution. You mention this yourself with the increasing interest in the Arctic. I now think that it still has a bit to do with sticking to the toast speeches and not so much about concrete actions. This is one of the things I certainly want and which Greenland is generally asking for. There are, for example: was held this important conference, Arctic Circle, where very many countries have shown interest, but there has been limited interest on the Danish side. It seems to me that this is about us being leaders in the Arctic together. We have a common interest, but also a shared responsibility, so I would like to hear the comments of the Socialists on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191449	I must of course point out, for the sake of good order, that we do not use direct indictments in the Folketing. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191456	I certainly hope that my rapporteur's speech showed this. Because if you look at the time I spent, I think you'll see that I spent a relatively large part of the time on the Arctic. And I guess that was also apparent from the exchange of views with Mrs Aleqa Hammond just before, partly in recognition of the fact that it may not have been high enough on the agenda. It should come now, and I have a feeling it does. Moreover, I fully agree that it is in a community between Denmark and Greenland. For that is precisely what is crucial here: a joint effort must be made in relation to Arctic development. My point is that when it comes to defence policy, economic policy and trade policy, the Arctic and the decisions that will be taken here in the future will have a decisive influence on Denmark, Greenland, and indeed the whole Arctic area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191554	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020191616	Thank you, sir. President. To begin with, I would like to thank the two ministers for the statements that have been made. This has been very interesting reading, which I very much appreciate, since as a newly elected member of the Danish Parliament and rapporteur for the Danish People's Party in the Nordic Council, I have only just begun to work in the Council. For my part, it means something special to participate in Nordic co-operation, as I was born in Oslo, speak fluent Norwegian and Swedish, and have worked in both these countries for over 30 years. It is therefore quite natural that I will do everything possible to promote and strengthen cooperation between the Nordic countries, as we in the Danish People's Party see it as an essential factor that in most areas we in the Nordic Region are very similar and love the same values in life. I have chosen here in my first speech as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party in the Nordic Council to focus on a number of areas where I think Nordic co-operation makes very good sense and where a number of good initiatives are being implemented. In several parts of the statements mention is made of the concept of Nordic added value. That sounds really good, and I fully agree that Nordic co-operation must focus on those areas where we create added value for the Nordic Region by working together as opposed to just working at national level. Perhaps I would like it to be a little clearer in project descriptions and the like, in which the Nordic added value actually exists, but this is undoubtedly an issue to which we will have the opportunity to return. I also welcome the great focus on health, which characterises the work of the Nordic Council these years. Quite sensible focus areas have been chosen and, above all, I think better cooperation on resistance to antibiotics is important. It is an incredibly important area to focus on, as it looks like it's just escalating. However, I am very surprised that we have not yet established an effective system so that we can prevent the so-called nomadic doctors who have lost authorisation in one Nordic country from continuing to mistreat patients in other Nordic countries. That is simply not good enough. This is a problem we have known for several years, and it has been addressed several times, but it has not yet been adequately addressed. This has been discussed in the Nordic Council on several occasions, but nothing has yet happened. We need to make that right. Here is a very specific area in which we can implement something quite specific that will bring added value to the Nordic citizens, and that should be quite simple. Another important focus area in the Nordic Council is the work to eliminate Nordic border barriers. That's very reasonable. If we can remove bureaucratic and technical obstacles which stand in the way of creating growth and employment in our countries, that obviously makes very good sense. In the field of culture, I would like us to focus more on the Nordic languages. It should be a natural part of Nordic co-operation that we work together to strengthen and preserve the Nordic languages. We all know that English, in particular, is filling more and more in our daily lives at educational institutions, etc. We need to make an active political effort to influence developments and strengthen the good Nordic languages. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to one of the projects put in place in the industrial sector, namely the Nordic Built Cities project, which aims to create smart, attractive and sustainable urban spaces in the Nordic region. Not only will it be good for ourselves who live in the Nordic cities, it will also be concepts that can be exported abroad. There is little evidence to suggest that urbanisation and the movement from country to city will slow down worldwide over the next many years. So there will obviously be a market for good sustainable solutions, where we in the Nordic countries can offer some of our classic values and competences such as design and innovation. I have read with interest the statements on the Arctic and the Baltic Sea region. I particularly welcome the fact that the focus is on maritime safety and high environmental and safety requirements. We can expect in the coming years that the reduced ice volume in the Arctic will lead to new opportunities and increased activity. It is a major and important task to ensure that the exploitation of the new opportunities in the Arctic area is properly carried out. It is quite natural that the Nordic countries and the Nordic Council are committed to this task. We must take due care. In conclusion, I would like to thank the two ministers once again for their statements and say that I personally see it as a great privilege to have become a member of the Nordic Council and I look forward very much to the continued work and cooperation within the Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192202	There is one questioner, and that is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192210	In addition to what the rapporteur said about much-needed action in the Arctic area, about sea surveying and safety at sea, what is the rapporteur's proposal for a better effort in the Arctic area from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192228	We must, of course, support, help and cooperate with the other Nordic countries and Greenland on everything that will happen in the Arctic in the future. It's gonna develop. As much of the ice melts, there will be much more activity and we will have a lot of negotiations. I would say that we must, of course, do it best. I am very much in favour of the work on the Arctic in the Nordic Council, where we are among other things. our member Henrik Brodersen is seated. So I hope that much will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192304	Mrs Aleqa Hammond, second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192307	Since the Danish Kingdom has submitted its submission on the continental shelf, I would like to ask: how does the rapporteur view the consequences that will be for the Danish Kingdom of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192324	It's kind of hard for me to give a specific answer to that. I would like to return, but after 5 weeks with the Nordic Council it is difficult for me to answer it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192337	There are no further brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Congratulations on the virginity. The next rapporteur is the Left's, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020192357	Thank you. If I had known that being an EU rapporteur and rapporteur for Nordic cooperation involved such long working days, I think I had thought. But now we are here, and I am pleased about that, and we have had three good statements from the ministers. Thank you. As a new member of the Nordic Council, I am embarrassed to learn that as a Leftman I am stepping into a very, very large pair of shoes from my predecessor in the post, Bertel Haarder, who has, of course, conducted very good and long-term Left policy and with great commitment, which I will then try to carry on. I would also like to thank Henrik Dam Kristensen from the Socialist Group, who is also tanned in this work here. It is nice that there are some tanned forces left so that we new ones can see that way when we have to look for answers to many of the things that the Nordic Council entails. After all, it is with the Nordic Council that for us who come from outside and have followed it from the sidelines for some years, it is difficult to find our way to the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council debate via the newspapers at least. It is not an area that actually draws the headlines, and it is basically a pity, because in my opinion, in the opinion of the Left, it is an area which is of great importance both for our country and for our common future. Next year, Denmark will take over the Presidency of the Nordic Council after we have held the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, and I think that is an opportunity that we should take advantage of. Being in the machine room of the Nordic community gives us some opportunities to conduct policies with a Nordic basis and strengthen the shared Nordic identity, and we must of course do so. For the Left, there is no doubt that we in the Nordic countries are the strongest when we stand together. With 25 million inhabitants and the world's total 12th largest economy, we in the Nordic community have a gravity that we often overlook. Add to this that the Nordic models of society have led to peace and prosperity, unprecedented equality and equality, all of which are extremely inspiring and which we can see and which I can talk to from Brussels too. The Nordic countries therefore have many forces that are only waiting to be used. The question is, of course, whether we are good enough to use these forces. The 2015 statement also shows clearly that there are many places where the cooperation in the Nordic Council gives the citizens something for the money. The former rapporteurs have mentioned this a little. For example, it is very gratifying that a number of good initiatives have been taken in the business sector and, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur just mentioned, I also think that the Nordic Built Cities project, which is about creating these smart new urban spaces in the Nordic Region, is a very welcome initiative. This is something that goes forward which shows that something can be done at the Nordic level and which also creates a good starting point for exports. We must make much better use of precisely exporting and exploiting the experience that has made our region one of the most successful. In many ways, Nordic co-operation is a paradox. At a time when everyone is talking about Nordic cool, when Nordic filmmakers, chefs, architects and green entrepreneurs celebrate triumphs all over the world, it is just successes that seem limited to culture and others in the eyes of no-one safe areas, politically speaking. There is, I think, a lack of direct influence, in the Left, on more traditional policy areas such as the economy, finance, security and foreign policy. By avoiding these heavy areas, the North, as a geopolitical entity, has lost many important briefs, so that today it is rather illogically divided on the issue of influence via NATO and the European Union. It is a pity at a time when the values that bind the Nordic countries together are so high and so in demand. One example is the development of our welfare societies. The models around the world are undergoing a major change at the moment, and they are being adapted to the new economic and technological reality. Our choice of free elections and our focus on giving citizens the right to decide for themselves have, of course, meant that our welfare society can be more distanced in both 20, 30 and 40 years. This development is in stark contrast to the situation in many parts of southern Europe and elsewhere. Here, the citizens see that the public sector does not strike. In Brussels, of course, the flexicurity model has been discovered, which we are talking about here, and we would like to be able to incorporate the experience. There is often talk of it, but here we are not, of course, united in passing on our experience. It is also my experience in Brussels. Another example, of course, is that we in the Nordic countries have begun to embark on cooperation in the field of defence, on patrolling airspace, military exercises, procurement, etc. Here too we could help to create models from which the rest of our European colleagues could probably learn something. In the future, the Left has the vision of strengthening Nordic co-operation internally, but also that it will be an enterprise that ensures Nordic influence in Europe. This requires both a strategic and a practical focus. That is why we in the Left propose that we do more to ensure that the Nordic Council is represented in the European Union. In connection with the Nordic Council session in Reykjavik next week, as part of the Liberal Mitten Group, we will propose that the Nordic Council set up an office in Brussels. Quite frankly, it is scandalous that this has not already happened. But better late than never. It is not particularly Nordic cool not to be able to beat the common Nordic where most decisions are taken for Nordic co-operation as well as for the legislation that we have here. With regard to the other statements, it can be said that Europe is on the threshold of a new narrative, and with the general distrust of European institutions, it is, of course, alpha and omega to have a good relationship with its neighbours, and we know that in the Nordic countries we do. This is expressed, among other things. in negotiations around the Arctic. It is no coincidence that the area is still regarded as a low-voltage area. Here the Nordic cohesion makes sure that it is not just as necessary to play with the military muscles. We are used to handling it at the negotiating table, and that is, of course, welcome. In order for Nordic co-operation to work, we also need to be able to cooperate with the states that surround our region, and it is gratifying that the report on the Baltic Sea region shows that there are positive tactics on that front without, moreover, having time and opportunity to go deeper into it. Finally, let me make it clear that we in the Left intend to make full use of Nordic co-operation. Nordic co-operation has so much potential that it would be wasted not to take advantage of the opportunities offered by cooperation, for example by having direct links with Brussels. Then I should like to say, before I say thank you for the floor, that my colleague from the Conservative Naser Khader, on behalf of that party, also agrees with the conclusions and the things that are stated in the statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193048	Before the rapporteur leaves the chair, it is Mrs Aleqa Hammond who has asked for a brief comment and I am sure that the rapporteur will be able to get home to the late television newspaper anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193058	Greenland is the Arctic part of the Danish kingdom. Greenland turns 20 per cent. I cannot help thinking about the human dimension, which is just as important as any other effort. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what improvements do you see to be made for the Arctic part of Denmark in areas which have not been taken over by Greenlandic self-government in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193135	I have full sympathy for the interest shown here by the Greenland rapporteur, and I would like to say that we also have a lot of sympathy for the issues raised. I think it is a little bit premature after a month and a half to anticipate what comes in the Arctic statement on this issue. So I would like, although it may seem a little bit girly, to pass it on and say: let us wait for what comes in that statement. After all, we from the Left have a close relationship with Greenland and with the Greenlandic parties and look with great goodwill at how we can solve the problems that exist to make things work up there. So let us take it at a later stage, when we are a little further ahead in the process, also in relation to the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193217	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193220	When Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland together have submitted their submission on the continental shelf, does the rapporteur see that there will be increasing activity in the near future in order to obtain more data and science in the field?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193240	I'm pretty sure. It is clear that the discussion that is going on about the socket is also a little premature. After all, we are awaiting answers from the bodies set up to investigate these matters, and this will also be an area which we will deal with and discuss later. But I'm quite sure there will be new data.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193257	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193259	Thank you very much for a fine contribution from the rapporteur. I would like to hear a little about the Left's ideas of creating growth and jobs in the Arctic, because that is basically what many people in Greenland are concerned with. One of the things that could be really interesting to look at is that we are the world's largest island with a very small population, that is, a population that is spread across a large area. If we are to create growth and if we are to create opportunities to translate this interest in the Arctic into something concrete and to these jobs in the Arctic, I also think it is extremely important that Denmark gets on the ground. It is a Community task to create this growth, so I would like to know if the rapporteur has any thoughts on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193346	Yes, I do. I think this is a very, very important discussion. I think there has been a lot of talk over the years, and surprisingly little has happened, compared to how many good wills, how many good wishes there are for the future in Greenland. I think again with the danger of sounding a little bit girly here that it's a bit premature to start discussing already now what can and must be done before we have that debate on the Arctic. I'd like to send it back a little bit. The rapporteur says that it is now up to Denmark to take the lead in Denmark. I think I could sense the conversations I have with people in Greenland and people who have been involved in that debate, that perhaps in reality it is a more pronounced wish that Greenland itself gets word on and has plans made for what is going to happen in Greenland. In any case, we often encounter the view that Denmark is interfering too much and has interfered too much, and thus the solutions have become a little muddled. I fully agree that something needs to be done in this area and that debate must be taken and plans must be put forward, but my request should be that this should perhaps be done more by bringing the Greenlanders themselves into line with the wishes they have for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193504	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193507	Thank you very much. It is, of course, an outstretched hand which I would be very happy to accept. As I see it, it is part of a process in which we are very early in the process, but as long as there is openness, I am at least very happy and happy from here. I agree with the rapporteur. That fg. President. - We have just had some problems with the technique. Can I ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen to repeat her question? I'm sorry, but now the right microphone is on. Here you go. ) Thank you very much, I'll try to see if I can remember everything. Thank you very much for an outstretched hand, which I welcome very much. I see it as an openness and a process that can continue, so it is very positive. I also think that, in relation to Greenland's business community, there is a need for them to come up with what is of concrete projects and that we politicians should be involved in setting a framework. So I would like to take part in that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193601	I am hurrying to sign for this, and then I think we should put that strategy in place, and I would like to join together, so that we can move forward, because the Greenlanders deserve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193608	Well, then, sir. Henrik Brodersen asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193610	Thank you. There is no doubt about where the rapporteur has been raised. As a jubilee European, the rapporteur was very anxious to tell us how important it is to set up a Nordic office and something else in the European Union. I would just like to point out that, after all, only Denmark, Sweden and Finland are part of the EU, whereas the other countries, the Åland Islands, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Norway, have actively chosen the EU from it. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to tell us a little about how he views the cultural things that we have in the Nordic countries, and how we can strengthen the things in the cooperation we would like to have in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193702	Whether I'm a cheerleader or not, I won't say anything. It's a term that DF tends to attach to me, and so it is in this round. But it is true that I am in favour of European cooperation, and the reason why we are making this proposal is precisely that all the Nordic countries do not have their day-to-day business in Brussels. It may well be that the Danish People's Party here says that some people have actively chosen the EU from it. However, there are also a great many people from the places in question whom I have visited in Brussels who have expressed a great desire to be allowed at least to be around when these matters are discussed. And that is precisely because it means that, if possible, it is not always easy to have some kind of common Nordic settings based on our common culture when we are in Brussels. In this way, it will soon be a discussion about whether the glass is half filled or half empty. But I choose to say that it is half full and that this also offers opportunities for those Norse people who do not have their day-to-day business in Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193807	Henrik Brodersen for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193810	I would like the rapporteur to highlight some of the things that we could use in the future to strengthen our Nordic cooperation with. It is not necessarily because the European Union has to make a special impact on it. Well, there's a lot of cultural stuff. After all, the North is part of the global world, and there are many more things that bind us together than separate us. That is why I think that the rapporteur must also have an idea of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193845	Certainly, and this proposal arises from a frustration that all the good things we're together about in the Nordic countries and there I don't quite agree with the speaker that the Nordic Region doesn't give the impact in the world that we should have. That is precisely why the proposal has been put forward, so that we can say that there are some areas where we actually feel that we, like the Nordic countries, can influence some things in Brussels. It is not a question of Brussels necessarily influencing us. It is actually the other way around, and that is why the proposal is coming. That is in the light of the proposal. By working in Brussels, I have just seen that, if we are united as the Nordic countries in Brussels, we do indeed have opportunities that we are not taking advantage of today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further questions. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020193940	Thank you for three thorough statements by the Ministers. They deserve to be read by many, and there is also a great chance that they will be read by more than usual, as interest in Nordic co-operation is increasing. They certainly show how important Nordic co-operation is. With regard to border barriers, I would like to say that I believe that the removal of border barriers is an important area. It is and has been a long and tough fight, but I think there is some progress. We brought the old government along, and I also hope that the Left Government can see the possibilities, because it must be a continuous process in which we look at the obstacles that exist. The Danish Presidency of the Council of Ministers is running out of time, and unfortunately the debate has not been very loud, so it is not the whole population who has discovered that Denmark has held the presidency there. It could be something we should think about when we talk about all the powers we put into it. There have been good issues: closer cooperation in the field of health, but also welfare and good angles that can form the basis for our greatest challenge: sustainable development. It is probably best formulated in the 17 new world goals or sustainability targets that the UN summit has just adopted in New York. It will be goals that will permeate both the Nordic and the Danish work up to 2030, and I see Nordic co-operation as a very good place to discuss joint initiatives, because I think we will be able to use each other's experiences to get really, really far with the ambitious goals. As far as social dumping is concerned, we need much more joint action in the fight against social dumping. The Nordic labour market models have so many things in common that we should work much more closely together to counteract the negative effects that are also of free movement, not least the kind of free movement that the EU rules have brought about, which has given us so much trouble. There I believe that professional and social rights should be much more at the forefront of cooperation, which is why I think it is also important that we continue to make social dumping a very, very central part of our cooperation. Both the Enhedslisten and the Left Socialist Green Group in the Nordic Council would like us to have much closer cooperation in the Nordic countries to counter social dumping. Because our labour market is open because our labour market is not so regulated by legislation, and precisely because it is left to the parties, it is important that we have a common interest and focus on this area. Then I would like to say a few words about savings in the Nordic Council. We and the Left Socialist Green Group in the Nordic Council disagreed with most of you that Nordic co-operation should be spared. After all, when we get out of this year, 8 per cent have been saved, and that causes a number of problems. When I was in the Praesidium in Oslo a few months ago, I saw that the parties that were most busy talking about savings came away with proposals for million costs for Nordic houses both in Flensburg, Brussels and in the Baltic without having any financial coverage at all. Yes, it seemed a little atypical that it was supposed to be Enhedslisten's people who were supposed to be urging to meddle with the economy, but that was the case. We must always drive things efficiently, but there are many good activities that are now not being launched and which are now never going to get started. I am a warm supporter of a Nordic house in Flensburg, it could be really, really good to send a little influence into the southern part of Europe, but the money has to be present. From Enhedslisten's point of view and from the Nordic Council group, we have the clear view that we should completely drop the cuts at the Nordic Journalist Centre, the Nordic Sommerhøjskole and the existing Nordic houses. Those activities are important elements of our joint cooperation. So little about the refugees. One issue that affects us all is the many millions of refugees seeking a peaceful place to live, and there is no doubt that Nordic countries can learn from each other and help each other on these issues and perhaps show the European Union how to distribute the task. Right now Sweden is taking a very large part of the refugees, and it is obvious that the Nordic ministers are discussing the work and finding common solutions. The Nordic region, with strong societies, can do much more than governments think and than we are doing at the moment. So this report is also about Baltic Sea cooperation. It has been created to promote cooperation with independent Baltic countries and with Russia. I am not a supporter of Putin, on the contrary, but I see no sense in responding to Russia's provocations with a new military escalation via advanced bases in Poland and increased overflights by bombers. The Nordic countries have a tradition of being able to play a positive role when conflicts are to be prevented by non-military means. Furthermore, it is worth emphasising that there is very good cooperation around the Baltic Sea against trafficking in human beings, even if there has been a legal reservation. Now we have discussed whether this could be done with the reservation of law, but it can be done. Authorities and organisations at many levels are fighting against trafficking in human beings, and we should continue to support this. Now that it runs out in a year's time, I think we should consider how we can make sure that there is still money for this important work. Arctic: In many ways, the Arctic presents challenges. We must remember, however, that Greenland in particular is the reason why the Kingdom Community is part of the Arctic Council. It is Greenland that is up there, it is not Denmark. I would like the three countries in the Kingdom Community to play a much more equal role in the Arctic fora. It is important that we focus on the environment and nature and demilitarisation of the Arctic. The Arctic must be nuclear-free. In addition, there is currently a need for stronger joint preparedness in the search and rescue work, and we need to move money from money, for example, in the near future. fighter aircraft and other offensive military hardware for these emergency missions in all Nordic countries. It's gonna be a huge task. Finally, I would like to say a few words about what we think we need to measure if we are to ask ourselves about the usefulness of Nordic cooperation and whether it is worth working with. The first is that it counts high for Enhedslisten that Nordic cooperation strengthens efforts for sustainable development, where people and nature live in balance with each other. The second is that Nordic cooperation promotes peaceful development without wars and conflicts in our area and that we develop a common capacity in non-military conflict resolution and peacekeeping. That is what is often referred to as the soft security policy. The third is that Nordic cooperation defends and expands the welfare state and the Scandinavian labour market model. Fourthly, we are developing democracy and finding new ways of engaging citizens in our countries. The fifth is that we promote the influence and efforts of Nordic countries in the world, especially in the world's poorest countries. And the last thing is that Nordic co-operation makes it easier to live as good neighbours, where citizens can travel and settle and work in all countries. We can use Nordic co-operation a little more actively and a little more mutually binding. For us, the debate on a Nordic federation is not remote and deterrent. We consider the Nordic region to be a dynamic and democratic alternative to the European Union, which is in crisis and on the way down in many areas. With its bureaucracy and its top management, the European Union has difficulty both in giving a good picture to its citizens, but also in providing answers in a good and democratic way in many areas. We have better opportunities than for many years to develop and strengthen Nordic co-operation, so let us do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020194818	There are two Members who have asked for brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020194825	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We took part in the same meetings of the Bureau recently, when the budget was being discussed, and I also heard the objections that Mr. Christian Juhl had to face the 2016 budget. I would now like to point out that our excellent proposal in the Mitten Group for a Nordic office in Brussels is not covered by the 2016 budget, but by the 2017 budget. So in that light and with a glance at the remarks made by Mr. Christian Juhl did about the ailing EU cooperation and a new Nordic Renaissance, one could then get a cautious commitment from Mr. Christian Juhl that the group will support such a Nordic office in Brussels, if only as a Trojan horse?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020194911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020194914	The latter could of course be very tempting, but if I were to give priority and we could afford more houses at all, I would say that the house in Flensburg that we have been discussing for some years now has the first priority from my point of view, as it can play several different roles: it can also play a role in relation to the two minorities at the border. And there we must try to ensure that it is not just a Danish idea, but that we will just sell it as a common Nordic idea. But I do not think we should be afraid to have so much confidence in the Nordic countries that we could teach Brussels something or other in the democratic field. So we'll have to try to get back to that if we can open the box again. But it is also the Left that must then have a will to spend a little more money on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195001	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard does not want another brief comment. Then the next Mrs. Aleqa Hammond is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195009	It's about much more than just sea surveying and the North Pole when we discuss the Arctic. I also agree with this when Enhedslisten says that the Arctic must be a peaceful area. We have also made this clear in the Arctic Five in connection with the Illulissat Declaration back in 2008. Having said that, the increasing interest in the Arctic has also led to greater tasks for Arctic Command. What is Enhedslisten's bid for improvements to the Arctic Command task solution in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195046	We are of the opinion that Arctic Command does not strike at all in relation to the tasks that are up there. That is why I mentioned that we need to look in all the Nordic countries to reorganise our • what should we call the defense equipment for it to be used much better in that task up there. Instead of bombers, I could imagine that we had some surveillance planes, that we had some rescue gear, that we had some more helicopters and things like that, because the huge area we can't cover with the few ships and get helicopters we have at the moment. And regardless of the fact that the Challenger plane is sometimes available, it does not strike at all. There are countries that have to realise that if there is to be as much traffic as there is planned, if there is to be so much activity up there, then there needs to be a completely different activity, and you have to invest in it, and there I see the money spent better on those tasks than on the more offensive military tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195146	Mrs Aleqa Hammond, on a second point.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195149	[Sound emission]... that the Arctic Council and Denmark must jointly have a more equal role, as the rapporteur also points out. After all, Greenland is very active within the Arctic Council in the working groups in the areas we have already taken home and also provides a really good work in relation to the substance. But when the rapporteur says that the Arctic Council and Denmark must have a more equal role, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195221	I know that Greenland is doing a lot, I would say to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. What I mean by that is that Greenland and, for that matter, the Faroe Islands also play a more central role. It should not necessarily be the case that things are managed from Copenhagen, when it is Greenland as the first priority and the Faroe Islands as the second priority, which has in fact what to say about the area as theirs. And that is why it is important that equality is based on the fact that we give out some opportunities and that Greenland and the Faroe Islands then seize those opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195255	A third Member has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195304	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke a little about security policy and that we should also take on security policy tasks in the Nordic Council, and I very much agree with that. I also very much agree that security policy is more and more than buying offensive hardware. But now it is the case that in the Nordic countries there are certain countries that are EU members and certain countries that are not members of the European Union, and some countries are NATO members, and others are not NATO members. How does the rapporteur feel that a common Nordic security policy is playing a part, for example? NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195335	From my point of view, and we will come back to that in my next speech... the Nordic co-operation can gladly replace more of that in my view, negative NATO cooperation. We could do much, much more sensible work together in this area than we are currently doing in NATO. I am not in favour of NATO, and I think most people know that. I am in favour of using the intergovernmental and very open working methods that we have in the Nordic countries to strengthen each other's tasks, especially the non-military tasks, but also those that relate to how countries and groups of countries play a much, much greater role in the major conflicts that are going on in the world. I believe, for example, that Scandinavia should do, as our Foreign Minister says, and through dialogue try to promote and find solutions rather than create enemy images. We could do that. We have a huge, huge strength and a great authority, and our economy is much, much larger than the Russians. In this way we have an opportunity that we do not use at all today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195442	Sjúrður Skaale to the second brief remark. Decline? It's okay. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020195455	Thank you. I would also like to thank the two ministers for a very thorough written statement. As far as Nordic co-operation is concerned, the Liberal Alliance considers it to be a kind of old love that, as such, never rusts, even if the relationship does not necessarily receive much attention. That is why the Liberal Alliance also wants to take advantage of all the practical cooperation opportunities that can strengthen and add value to the Nordic relationship. The Nordic concept has never really been better than it is now. We have among other things. recently had the opportunity to observe a less rivalry between potential US presidential candidates when it comes to copying our very Nordic social model. In the Liberal Alliance, we also think in general that we can be satisfied with Nordic co-operation. For us, the crown jewel is also the effort to control and break down border barriers in favour of both growth and prosperity throughout the Nordic region. However, it is also important that, in areas where border barriers do not exist, we focus on coordinated control and sharing of available information. For example, it is not many days since we have seen how a doctor has been able to shop between Denmark, Sweden and Norway and mistreat a large number of patients, without there having really been a control system where the red lamps have flashed. We think we can do a little better. We should remind each other here that the easiest thing is to adopt fine regulations and regulatory coordination, while the difficulty lies in implementation and day-to-day attention. Here we can also refer to the love relationship from before. What I would also like to define as more meaningful cooperation is if we in the Nordic countries can share more expensive and narrower specialities in hospitals and very expensive procurement of equipment for defence and preparedness, as well as possibly other areas where a large population base can more easily pay for costly specialization. Cooperation must also take the form of concrete agreements in areas where there may be scope for all parties. It could, for example, be done. In concrete terms, it is a joint Nordic embassy cooperation which could be more topical now than ever before. The first experience in this area could be seen, for example. appropriate draw in connection with the forthcoming COP21 in Paris. In this context, the Liberal Alliance believes that it would be very good if we coordinated our ambitions in the Nordic region, as is also mentioned in the statement, but the demands for ourselves do not necessarily have to be sky-high in order for this to be a success. The Nordic countries have in fact together come quite a long way and can already present levels of CO2 so, although many will try to give the opposite impression, we believe that the Nordic Region is at the forefront of the field, which our business community actually feels daily. In the field of energy, we in the Nordic countries have a direct destiny community, as we are connected via the electricity grid and have a common price based on supply and demand. This means that if you develop with a nuclear power plant in Finland, it will have an impact on the electricity price here in Denmark and correspondingly opposite to our wind turbines. These many expensive investments must be coordinated much better for the benefit of both the climate, our security of supply and the economy. This also avoids large misinvestments and inappropriate competition between, for example. well-functioning power plants and all possible and impossible supported energy sources in the Nordic electricity market. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress the continuing need for savings in the large administrative organisation around Nordic co-operation. Although some may think that a great deal of effort is being spent on reform processes, we in the Liberal Alliance still think that it is happening with mouse steps. Many areas could be mentioned where efficiency is still possible. Allow me, for example. Here mention research cooperation and the many research areas which are not directly related to Nordic conditions and where universities already work on the same topics in other international contexts. The focus should clearly be on specialities within the Nordic language and cultural framework and within the Nordic geography, including of course the Arctic. The Liberal Alliance believes that Nordic cooperation on Arctic research should be strengthened and that joint Nordic cooperation should aim for a more central role for global Arctic research and preferably with Denmark as a driving force. This brings us to the Arctic cooperation, of which all the Nordic countries are part. Today, however, Arctic cooperation is not only influenced by the circumstances of the North and the Arctic. No, the entire international security policy situation has proved to be crucial to the climate of cooperation in the Arctic. The same applies to Baltic cooperation. It must therefore also continue to serve Denmark best to have the EU officially assigned the role of observer in Arctic cooperation. A result of the forthcoming treatment and negotiations on the spread of the continental shelf around Greenland and the Faroe Islands has the long-term prospects of reaching, and the focus of future cooperation in the Arctic should therefore focus on obvious and more practical topics such as sailing, safety, rescue, marine environment and, as previously mentioned, research. In addition, close cooperation in these areas will naturally support the maintenance of the region as a low-voltage area. Last but not least, the Liberal Alliance believes that it would be obvious that Arctic cooperation focused further on trade and export issues, taking into account, of course, the political situation and possible trade sanctions at all times. It is therefore also very satisfactory that the dispute between the EU and the Faroe Islands on herring quotas back in 2013 was resolved by common understanding. Hopefully, this case can serve as an example of solutions to future political differences in the Arctic. These were the words, my first words from up here, and again thanks to the two ministers for their very detailed statement. It can be difficult to be brief, and it has been noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200259	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200306	Thank you very much for the speech by the rapporteur, and congratulations on the first of many, hopefully. The rapporteur himself mentions this with research, and I think it would be very interesting to hear what the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance think about the ambitions of the Kingdom Community and what they think about whether the Kingdom Community should be a leader in research in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200329	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200330	Thank you. I believe that in Danish research in the Arctic area there may have been a little bit of restraint in relation to other Nordic countries, and that is why I mentioned that I would like to see Denmark and the Kingdom community as the leading provider of further development of Nordic co-operation in Arctic research areas, so that it will have a more central role globally. I believe we have the base for it both in the Kingdom Community and with some of the logistical facilities that are in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200414	The questioner for the second brief remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200417	Thank you very much. I interpret the rapporteur's response as a political will to do something about promoting research in the Arctic, but I would like to know if the rapporteur has any ideas on what could be done specifically to promote research in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200433	I believe that one of the things that could be done in this context is to be part of more active and binding communities with private companies in relation to exploration, raw materials, etc., and that this could be combined with more free research and public-based research.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200456	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200500	The Arctic is so much more than just defense, preparedness and marine surveying. When we discuss the Arctic, we talk a lot about geology and geopolitics, and we talk climate, permafrost research, icebreakers, potential investments and investors and new climate goals that bring with them many opportunities, but also many challenges. How's the Liberal Alliance Arctic in 5-10 years from now? How much effort does Denmark make in the Arctic region compared to now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200540-2	Thank you. Thank you for the question. I myself was fortunate recently to participate in the Parliament's orientation journey in Greenland, and I myself have previously been in Greenland several times. I actually feel able to detect a significant degree of optimism in Greenland's society, especially in the field of business, and I myself had the opportunity to experience several places where I certainly believe there is a positive development in growth and industry. I believe that the most important area for Greenland is industrial development, among other things. Maybe tourism. And I believe that in the coming years we will see rapid development and, hopefully, through strengthened Arctic cooperation, also better export opportunities and cooperation opportunities across the Arctic region.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200642	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200646	After all, in the Arctic part of Denmark, in Greenland, 32 non-removed areas of responsibility, which we from Greenland have repeatedly pointed out really need to be looked at carefully and at last prioritised, especially in the area of justice, in the context of looking at the human dimension of the Arctic question. What are Liberal Alliance's own priorities for improving these conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200713	To that question, I think I would say to the questioner that I am also Greenland's rapporteur and am very interested in the fact that we can have continuous cooperation on the exact removal of various areas. I think it is very important that we here are sure that both Greenland and Denmark are ready for the repatriation of the individual areas. What the order of priority should be exactly, I will not stand here and give an answer to, but we in the Liberal Alliance are certainly interested in entering into a clear and strong dialogue with also the Greenlandic members of the Danish Parliament about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200756	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020200807	Thank you for three exciting statements. The Nordic countries are known and admired in large parts of the world for being progressive in a wide range of areas. Whether we are talking about education, welfare, climate, the environment, transparency in power systems or almost non-existent corruption, the Nordic countries are in the international world class. In the Nordic countries, of course, we have our differences, but the alternative is that we have so many areas where we are similar that we should actually work together even closer than we are today. We see the Nordic Region as an obvious opportunity to cooperate, and there is especially a potential for far more visionary cooperation than what we see today. For example: The Nordic Environment Ministers have just decided to look at the possibilities for a joint Nordic implementation of the UN's sustainability objectives in the environmental sector, and there we think it would be obvious that we are looking not only at the environmental sector, but also at all 17 global goals to see how they can achieve a strong implementation. It will be a model for the rest of the world if we can take the lead here. Speaking of climate and environment, we already have a Nordic working group on global climate negotiations. That is good, because in the Nordic countries we have a common ambition to create stronger cooperation in the area of climate change. And rarely has the need been greater when we consider that we are a short time from COP21 and that it is more important than ever that many countries stand together so that we achieve an ambitious and binding climate agreement. Another area in which we see the basis for good and generous cooperation is when we talk about citizen involvement and democracy development. In the Nordic countries, we are currently seeing several good examples of serious efforts to create a more inclusive democracy. In Finland, for example, they have. an open ministry. In Iceland crowdsources there is a new constitution, and in many municipalities throughout the Nordic region we see a great many initiatives that promote citizen involvement. This is also one of the reasons why I myself, next week in the Nordic Council, am proposing the creation of a Nordic Centre for the Development of Democracy and Citizens. It is for us to have a centre so that we can learn from each other and gather knowledge and hopefully learn more together in an innovation in our democracy. On Baltic Sea cooperation, let me briefly mention that we welcome the government's focus on climate and environmental protection, and we hope that it will receive the attention it deserves. I can also read that growth in a broad sense is a priority. We do not disagree with that, but it is important for us that when we work for growth, we remember that it is also about climate and environment growth, and not least the people who live in the region. With the North as the focal point, we are stronger in the Arctic, both in terms of the negotiations on the distribution of land, but also in terms of maintaining environmental requirements and taking account of the climate crisis. As the Minister's statement states, there is great synergy between the Arctic strategies of the Nordic countries, yet Nordic cooperation is still seen as a complement to the work of the Arctic Council. We would like to see Nordic co-operation as an addition to seeing it as a greater priority in Arctic cooperation, because we can jointly put pressure on the other countries in terms of sustainable development in the Arctic, both economically, socially and environmentally. When we talk about the Arctic, it is important for us to focus on 4 million people living in the Arctic. It is important that we continue to show respect for them and not overrule their rights for major political or economic interests. That is why we are also pleased that sustainable development for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Arctic is a key part of the strategy for the period 2011-2020. There is great potential and economic potential in the Arctic, but we must not let the economy override the environment and social sustainability. We therefore hope that the government will maintain its focus on the needs of Arctic residents in future Arctic meetings and negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020201228	I do not see anyone making brief remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020201244	Thank you very much, President. I, too, would like to thank the ministers for their excellent statements. There is no reason why I should like to repeat the words of good colleagues about the need for and the joy of both Nordic co-operation and the Kingdom Community, etc. I shall therefore try to go to the steel sector on the points where I think it might be possible to discuss them further in relation to the statements. First of all, in relation to Nordic co-operation, there are many happy events, but I miss one thing in the Minister's statement here, and that is energy cooperation. Because, as several rapporteurs have said, we have good Nordic cooperation in the area of climate change, but I actually think that one of the most promising areas is energy cooperation. There we have a common market in the electricity sector. We have potential for further expansion of gas connections. We are an example to all the rest of the European Union, who come back again and again and ask about the Nordic model in the field of energy, where, after all, we complement each other's renewable energy sources in a very cost-effective way and where the liberalisation of the markets has gone very beautifully hand in hand with an increasingly greener profile. Why not use it more offensively? Why not put a Nordic fingerprint both in the EU and in the rest of the world and show that economic growth and development go hand in hand with one of the most ambitious green transitions in the world? It is not mentioned in a word in the Nordic statement. I simply fail to understand that, because it is one of the most successful Nordic cooperation we have at all and which we could benefit greatly from commercially in the world too. In relation to the Arctic statement, I have to say that I do not really disagree with anything that is written there. After all, we all support the Arctic strategy, but as several of the representatives from the northern parts of the kingdom, both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, have indicated, there are a number of issues which are pressing and which we may not be able to clarify today, also because we are still awaiting this analysis of, among other things. Defense in the North. It might be interesting if the Secretary of Defense could tell us when we can expect this analysis to come. It's been slipping for a long time. Whatever the case, however, I still have a feeling, when I hear the various speakers, that perhaps we could use an update or operationalisation of the Arctic strategy that we have worked out together. After all, there is enormous potential, and for every year that goes by, it is increasingly clear that it is in the common interest of the Kingdom community to perhaps have a slightly more offensive approach to how we deal with the enormous opportunities, but of course also the challenges that come in the Arctic as a result of climate change, opening up resource utilisation, which opens up major transport, which opens up major geopolitical issues that we should rather be at the forefront of than dealing with backwards. There it is as if we have had a little difficulty with it, and I think that is actually true of all parts of the Kingdom community. We have had a little difficulty in finding common ground in terms of how we can use it together. Sometimes I have an experience that there is a little fear of touch, in the sense that we all keep saying that what is needed is an equal and respectful mutual cooperation between the different parts of the Kingdom community in relation to the Arctic question. That's right. This means, of course, that we have a self-government law which we all respect, but we also have within it some things that are still Danish domain with foreign and security policy. And we also have some areas that have been taken home, which are now Greenlandic and Faroese domain respectively, and in which the Danes should not interfere so much. But that is why we could of course develop common strategies to strengthen the whole Kingdom community, the opportunity to create economic growth in all parts of the Kingdom community. If I should now mention an example that plunges me into the eye when I see the Arctic statement this year, then that is, for example, how we best deal with the European Union. What exactly is it that Greenland and the Faroe Islands need in relation to trade and the EU? It says here that the European Union is on the way with an Arctic strategy that comes here at the end of the year or at the beginning of the new year. What exactly is our position on that strategy? What is Denmark doing as a community to influence the strategy in a direction from which all parts of the Kingdom community could benefit? What has greater or less free trade implications for both fish, mackerel and so on, but also in relation to the major foreign policy issues that are pressing on? It could actually be exciting to be at the forefront of such a strategy on the part of the European Union, where a united kingdom could play a part in what we would like the European Union to emphasise in such an Arctic strategy. For it is at least my belief that we need the European Union. After all, we sit in the Arctic Council as a community. In fact, we are the only Member State of the European Union that sits there, and it is of enormous importance that we can bring the European Union into that cooperation also within the subcommittees and secure European investment, secure European interests, research and so on. both in terms of climate, but also in relation to all the other areas of concern, not least in the private sector. It would be good if it were the Kingdom Community that set that agenda in the European Union, based on what we think are the most important common interests. I am not saying that to tease the Foreign Minister, because perhaps that is something we could have thought of doing a little more about in the previous government. We may not be able to achieve everything, but here we might be able to take a little more offensive agenda together. That brings me to the Baltic Council. And I have to say that this is perhaps the explanation that I am least impressed with, because it is as if there is really dancing around the elephant in space, which of course is: what is the role of Russia in this cooperation? I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs intends to make contact with the Russians in some form or other, among other things. Because there is a desire to discuss Baltic Sea Council cooperation. What is the position of the Baltic countries on this? How do the Baltic countries see this cooperation developing during the current crisis in Ukraine? What is the Danish reflection on how we balance the concern to ensure as much détente in our part of the world as possible, while at the same time having historical solidarity with the Baltic countries, which I think is at least important to us. Poland is strongly committed to this issue, has strong views. I do not think that we can discuss Baltic Sea Council cooperation, regardless of what we think is the right way forward, whether it is greater or less dialogue with Russia, but we cannot like discuss energy cooperation, investment in your and that etc. without going into areas that are of absolutely vital importance to Russia and therefore we also have to deal with when we put forward a strategy on how cooperation in that part of Europe can and should develop. It will probably be too far to take this into the whole big discussion about our relationship with Russia in general, but I just think that we might owe the Baltics a few words about how we think this cooperation should be and what principles it should be based on. These must be my brief complements to all the many good things already put forward by many rapporteurs, and I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have the opportunity to comment on some of them. One thing I would like to add is that I was glad to see in the Arctic statement that there is some writing about the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation, but I wonder a little bit, although we will come to that a little later, that it is completely absent from the Minister for Defence's statement on the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. Now, of course, I know how closely the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs are coordinated, but here is a single area where it seems to have failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202055	I would ask the rapporteur to stand still, because at this stage at least four comments have been written in for short. Yeah, that's great. The first is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202108	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your contribution. I think that the rapporteur mentioned some very interesting things in terms of strengthening the Kingdom community and having a more offensive agenda on the part of the Kingdom community. I think we sometimes tend to wait for these statements and analyses and evaluations. With regard to the analysis of defence tasks in the Arctic, we have waited more than a year for it to be presented. This gives us a basis for having a discussion, which I certainly look forward to very, very much. I have asked a question about it in the Greenland Committee and was told that it should come around the turn of the year. So I certainly intend to keep the Minister up to that. With regard to the strategy of the Kingdom in the Arctic, an evaluation is supposed to take place in 2014-15, and this is another case where you go and wait a little and think how we can ensure that it does not just stay with this fine report, but that it is also, as the rapporteur himself said, transformed and operationalised. So it might be interesting to hear whether the rapporteur has any more thoughts on how to ensure that this could happen. The last one is about Thule Air Base. I think the matter is not over yet, and there are a lot of tasks to be done there too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202228	However, I think that the evaluation, or should we say the update of the Arctic strategy, is an excellent opportunity to perhaps get a little on the offensive in some of the areas where we can see dramatic developments have taken place since we jointly drew up the Arctic strategy. It is not really because I think that the Arctic strategy is wrong or that there are things in it that I myself do not vouch for at least today but there are just areas where you could operationalise the objectives you have in the strategy anymore. I also think that a little more concrete action could be found, as I would very much like to discuss. This is among other things. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. Another part that I think is obvious to discuss is the European Union. A third part is the whole discussion on fisheries and its rights when new areas become available. There's enough to do. It's incredibly exciting, and there are great opportunities in everything. As far as Thule is concerned, I understand that we are currently going to await the decision on the appeal against the judgment of an American court before, if I may say so, we can take the next steps in that matter. We hope, of course, that the judgment will be upheld.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202349	The next brief remark is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202358	Greenland already has an excellent foreign policy on matters that have already been settled. We have that competence, and that is why we are negotiating directly with the countries with which we wish to negotiate, for example. The EU, Russia and Norway in relation to fisheries agreements and similar agreements. Greenland enjoys its role as an OSCE country and has excellent cooperation and cooperation with the European Union, which we constantly improve. When the rapporteur mentions the European Union as an area where it is possible to make improvements, what specific points does the rapporteur have in mind as regards the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202437	So, my comments fall because it is clear from the Arctic statement that we are discussing here today it is on page 3 that the EU at the end of 2015 and early 2016 is expected to come up with an overall strategy for the EU's Arctic engagement. After all, it is about investments, it is about contributions to climate research, it is about the whole area, and it will also be about Russia, I think. I just think that it would be interesting if Denmark and the whole community, including Greenland, were to make their comments on what we want from the European Union's commitment to the Arctic region, before the European Union decides on a strategy for the Arctic before the European Union has nailed its positions, if I may say so and before the Commission submits it for political consideration. So my idea was that it would be exciting if we could give some input to the concrete plan that the European Union is apparently preparing right now, as we are talking about it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202540	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202543	Greenland already has a very ambitious climate target that we have set ourselves. Greenland today is barely 75%. self-sufficient in terms of renewable energy, so we have a very good platform to talk about there. When the rapporteur mentions Arctic strategy, I lack substance, means and concrete measures that the Kingdom community can continue to pursue in order to make the Arctic strategy a success and not just nice headlines. What does the rapporteur point to as possible improvements, and how can the Arctic strategy be strengthened in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202625	Mrs Aleqa Hammond is quite right that if the whole world's energy supply looked like Greenland, we were quite a bit closer to achieving our climate targets. Greenland has something to be proud of. Well, I think of many things when I think of strengthening or realising the Arctic strategy. One of the areas addressed by the previous government, but not completed, is of course the objective of promoting private investment, not least in Greenland, and ensuring that other countries also have an interest in investing in Greenland. This can be done both in large and small terms, if I may say so, and I know that is something that very much concerns the questioner. It is about everything from raw materials to fisheries, tourism and everything. And I still believe that there is a need and a great desire for both Greenland, as I hear the Greenlandic Government, and among many foreign investors. However, sometimes there is a lack of coupling, which is why, unfortunately, I think we still have too little investment in the private sector in Greenland outside, and also like from countries other than Denmark. But I think that Denmark could help facilitate interest in Greenland when we are out in the big world, just as Greenland itself does.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202740	The next brief remark is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202744	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good speech. I think it was. It is, of course, the case that over the last few decades the European Union has, like it has, wedged into the kingdom community. The EU has separated the Faroe Islands and Greenland and Denmark. There I think it is a very, very good idea, as the former Foreign Minister here puts it, namely that perhaps in the Arctic Council we can identify some common interests that the European Union has, as Denmark has, and that the Faroe Islands or Greenland have, and then we can find common ground and find common solutions that unite us more than has been the case in recent years. After 3 December, the separation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands will go further when you start moving the jurisdiction down to Brussels. So that's why it's a very good thought. After all, Canada refused observer status in the Arctic Council at the time if the EU would not call off a blockade against Canadian sealskin. No seal, no deal. That is the hard way to conduct diplomacy. But surely there are also opportunities for common interests in research, in fisheries, in investment in preparedness and so on. It's just a comment I have. I think it is a very good strategy that we can have if we in the Arctic Council find a way to counteract the developments which have been in recent decades and which are likely to speed up at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020202914	I am also a great supporter of the Arctic Council and enhanced cooperation in the Arctic Council from every point of view. What was my idea here, however, was whether the Commonwealth should try to play directly into the European Union, because we are the only country in the Arctic Council that has the opportunity to do so but, of course, based on our experience in the Arctic Council. However, the Arctic Council is currently, as the honourable Member will be aware, somewhat hampered by the fact that, due to the Ukraine conflict, Russia has set its feet in order for the European Union to be able to obtain observer status in the Arctic Council. Therefore, it may be difficult to make the Arctic Council the very focal point of that debate at the moment. However, I agree that we must of course take on board the experience and that the European Union could play a major and constructive role in the Arctic Council, not least in the areas mentioned by the questioner: research and private investment. But here and now my idea is also because it is a little more operational, I think the Kingdom community could actually play directly into the work that the Commission is doing now. No one throughout Europe is better at this than we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020203027	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020203035	It was simply because the rapporteur said that he would like to know more about the government's policy on Baltic cooperation and Russia, while at the same time showing solidarity with the Baltic countries. But I think it was at least as interesting to hear what the rapporteur himself thinks about this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020203058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020203058-2	I am not in government anymore, unfortunately, but I would like to share with the honourable Member in my thoughts on this. One of the most important cooperation under the auspices of the Baltic Council is in the field of energy. In practice, this is extremely difficult at the moment, partly because of the sanctions imposed on Russia, partly because there are obvious conflicts of interest, as the world currently stands. Therefore, my own thoughts about this are that where there is perhaps the most breeding ground for trying to strengthen the Baltic Sea Council cooperation, there are in the slightly softer areas of civil society, work for democracy, improvements and the sort of issues that may not have been at the very top of the agenda in recent years. At any rate, I think it is difficult to continue as if nothing has happened unless we try to take account of where it is then, there may be some common denominators. Because I kind of agree with the government that there are some options in this format, but I think we just have to take into account what is realistic to get the Baltics and Poles involved in the security policy situation we have at the moment. So maybe I could miss a shift in focus, so that you took into account the situation that is at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020203225	So I would like to thank the rapporteur and the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020203247	Thank you. It has been a long day and also a long debate on these important issues. I don't want to prolong it much. I have agreed with many of the considerations that have been made. I think sir... Martin Lidegaard made a number of very, very exciting observations about the lack of strategic perspective in these statements and also with an indication of some issues which are actually very interesting and very exciting to discover, and which are of great importance both in relation to the Arctic and in relation to the Nordic, but also in relation to the Baltic Sea cooperation. Perhaps one of the problems is that these statements are not as strategic as they might be. These are the descriptions of cooperation, as is often the case in these statements, which is why I think that some of the debate might be a little sidelined by what the point of these statements is. Because it is not the case that in this discussion we address all issues relating to the Kingdom community, and what may be of the challenges there, they also lie elsewhere. I just think that must be a limitation in the way we discuss these statements, in addition to the fact that at a later stage more strategic thinking comes into them than what is described here. It can be said that, overall, these statements express a very important dimension of Danish security policy. In other words, it is often the case that we define security policy based on what we do militarily around the world at the moment in Iraq and earlier also in Afghanistan etc. However, the way we deal with these issues in our neighbourhood and in the Commonwealth is extremely important in terms of security policy and is perhaps in fact more important in these years than the fact that we may be in Afghanistan or Iraq. Therefore, it is a very, very important part of Danish security policy and Danish security policy challenges that we are discussing here. The Nordics have always, it can be said, been a very central part of Danish foreign policy. I think that it was Per Hækkerup who wrote a book in 1965 • Denmark's foreign policy • where he liked to draw some circles that characterized Danish foreign policy and which indicated such different cooperation relations as we were in. At that time the UN was the utmost, then NATO came a little further in, and then the Nordic countries came in to illustrate that Danish foreign policy has always been based on cooperation relations in international organisations and in relation to other countries. Back then, in the 1950s and 1960s, it can be said that the Nordics played a very, very important role in Danish foreign policy. Since we joined the EEC in 1972, it has been toned down somewhat, even after the NORDEK negotiations broke down in the late 1960s. However, great efforts have been made to maintain the Nordic dimension of cooperation, because we are some who believe that this is important, even though we are different places in other alliances. Although we are in the European Union, Norway is not, even if we are in NATO, Sweden and Finland are not, and although we are outside the defence dimension of the European Union, Sweden is certainly not, of course this means that it imposes some restrictions, but also an obligation that we stick to this cooperation as much as possible. And it also reflects this statement that there is a will for us to continue to do in the Nordic countries. With the history we have, with the social structure we have, and with the Nordic welfare societies we have, it is of course very, very important, as others here in the Chair have also pointed out, that we are discussing how we can maintain this Nordic model. There was much talk about Bernie Sanders and Clinton discussing Denmark in the American election campaign. They did, but it was just as much the Nordic countries that they discussed. Sanders mentioned Denmark, but he also mentioned Norway and Sweden and Finland, and it is characteristic that, like this area, it is regarded as an area with very special characteristics of welfare policy that other countries look up to. Yes, on the American right, it is the jealous communism that we have here. And it is the case that Bernie Sanders, who has been declared a democratic socialist, is using us as an example, even if there is a bourgeois government in Denmark at the moment. So it must, as it were, take note that it is used as a positive example by an American socialist. Yeah, yeah, there's so much in this world that's interesting. But it is important that we stick to it. The Arctic has become more important again. I myself was in the Defence Commission in 2008, when, I think, we really discussed the security and defence policy issues relating to climate change and the fact that the Arctic is becoming of greater strategic importance, very, very thorough. This has to do with the fact that where there is underground, where there are resources, there are always strategic interests involved, where there are new trade routes, there are always strategic interests involved and how this will pose different challenges. I think it is important, and it is also clear from the report, that Per Stig Møller, who is not here in the Danish Parliament anymore, and who was always very aware of his own worth and importance, at least in this context, has had a point all the time, namely that it was actually very, very forward-looking when he was active in the Ilulissat Declaration. It was very well seen by those who took the initiative that the whole debate on borders was turned into an issue of international law, rather than turning it into a military and power-political issue, and that, despite the Russian invasion in Ukraine, Russia has actually managed to respect it. It is clear that we do not know whether Russia will do so forever, but so far I fully agree with the Danish Government and the previous government, which insisted very strongly that, okay, we are running a hard criticism of Russia in relation to Ukraine's occupation, but in relation to the Arctic we very much need to work with Russia as well, and so will it be in the future. As far as Baltic Sea cooperation is concerned, I think that Mr. Martin Lidegaard raises a problem that we need to discuss, namely our Russia policy and how it works here. It is, if I may say so, rather unanswered. We have seen how the Foreign Minister went out in an interview in a newspaper and suddenly changed what the former Minister, Mr. Martin Lidegaard, had said about Russia, and actually changed the Danish position without that being discussed further. It was the same way with a fingertips that you lay down somewhere other than where Mr. Martin Lidegaard had certainly been lying when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs. I think it might be worth discussing whether one should be in one place or another, because there are arguments for one and arguments for the other, certainly. And I am not in favour of a confrontational approach to Russia. In fact, I think it is important that we try to cooperate as much as possible, but it is also true, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard says that there is a concern for the Baltics, for our Baltic policy, which has always played a major role in Danish foreign policy. That's what we need in the back of our head, too. That is why I think we may be missing a little, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister are a little more proactive, about how we should deal with Russia in relation to the problems we are facing here, but also with regard to the Baltic States and, as we discussed earlier today, with Russian activity in Iraq and the Middle East, where Russia is really taking its lead at the moment. So I get that, but it's not in here, is it? But I hope we can have that discussion at a later stage, for as Mr. Martin Lidegaard quite rightly said in his excellent speech, it is of course essential for how this cooperation can be further developed. I'm gonna stop here, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204231	It was very accurate, almost on the second. There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Morten Løkkegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204241	Thank you. I'm not going to prolong the debate much, but I was just inspired by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's praise of Nordic co-operation in a European context. So I would like to ask briefly: How does Mr. Does K. Nielsen say that you can do more about this in concrete terms? What can we continue to do in a Nordic context that is actually concrete? After all, I have made a proposal here today, and we are making a proposal in connection with the Nordic Council session. What could Mr. Holger K. Nielsen imagine that we could make more concrete progress in Nordic co-operation, so that we get more Nordic in Europe and more Europe in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204315	I have to say that I cannot give such a specific answer to the very specific question. I have to admit, I can't. I think that proposal, sir. Morten Løkkegaard points out, is interesting to discuss. We may have to do it, but frankly, I haven't just answered it now. But I am very willing to think about it, so that we may have a more forward-looking discussion of it here in the Folketing too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204342	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204345	Now it is so that Arctic Five, i.e. neighbouring countries to the North Pole Norway, Russia, the United States, Canada and the Kingdom of Denmark have agreed to stand together on the Ilulissat Declaration, which says that we agree that we respect the Convention on the Law of the Sea. But that then means that the countries have submitted their partial claim for the socket, and it will also bring a lot of work with them to all of us. What does the rapporteur see as a consequence of the partial requirement we have submitted? What is the rapporteur's view of the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204431	Well, for the Kingdom! But I understand that there has been a very close cooperation with Greenland on those demands and that there is no conflict on the demand message, if I may say so. This has been conducted in close cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. If I am mistaken, I would like to be corrected, but that is how I understand it. Where the problem is, of course, how the subsequent negotiations at the United Nations are going to take place, and we do not yet know that. And that's why you have to be careful not to overdramatize these claims that have been made, both on the Danish side and on the Russian side. It is, of course, the case that, in the light of the studies carried out by scientists on the seabed, a number of arguments have been put forward to the effect that we believe that the border should be here and should be there and that the Russians have some other scientific studies they are using. And then you have to find out in the UN system how to solve those problems. This is how it will happen in the future. I would have liked to explain a little more clearly that this should present some particular challenges for the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204549	The questioner on the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204551	Now it is the case that Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland have jointly submitted the sub-claim, and in this context we agree. However, this has also, of course, resulted in the other countries, which are also neighbouring countries to the North Pole, so arming their commitment and presence for further information and data collection on the North Pole, if they are their own Arctic policies, investments, climate studies, permafrost, geopolitical issues and so on. You see not only in the area as an area to be explored, but also in the area as something that brings great potential with it, including for the kingdom. Having submitted the sub-claim is fine, but what do the rapporteur think we should do now to ensure that our sub-claims become a solid claim on the socket when we compare ourselves with the other neighbouring countries to the North Pole?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204652	It is difficult to say how the negotiations are going to take place. It is quite natural that the various countries should submit their claims on the continental shelf on the basis of the scientific studies they have carried out. That is the case in all negotiations: you submit your demands and then you have to find a solution to them. What is important is that we engage in this on an ongoing basis so that we know that we take this seriously. And I am quite convinced that the Danish Government will be fully aware of this. The Greenland Government and the Faroese Government will also be. So I'm not so nervous that this is going to go wrong for the kingdom community. In fact, I think we are very well prepared through the work that has been done so far and through the activity and commitment of the governments of both Nuuk and Thorshavn, if I may say so, driven into this work and as the Danish Government does. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very committed to this, so I'm not so worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more inscribed for short remarks. I can tell you that we still have four rapporteurs, all the Nordic representatives wishing to speak, and that is wonderful in the debate we are having today. The first is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020204833	Thank you very much. Thank you for the explanations. The most important conference on the Arctic, Arctic Circle, was held in Iceland this weekend. It was noteworthy that large nations such as Germany, France, Russia, the United States and part of the Asian countries showed real interest. The messages from Arctic Circle show, among other things. also that several countries, including China, believe that the Arctic belongs to everyone. To that I can just say: No, the Arctic belongs primarily to the Arctic people. In connection with the Arctic Circle, the International Chairman of the Inuit Circumpolar Council, Okalik Eegeesiak, stated that Inuit is an international people. There is no contradiction between being inuit and being a citizen of the world. It's not either-or, but it's both-and. We also have a task ourselves, because when we talked about globalisation in the rest of the world ten years ago, we talked about greenlandisation in Greenland. I think it is really important that we do not shut ourselves down, but that we see that in an increasingly coherent world we do not need declarations of independence, but we need to see what it is that brings us together, what it is that we share, what common interests we have, and that we are aware of what kind of communities we are involved in. My hope for Greenland and for the kingdom community is that we in the Arctic play a strong, active and participating role. I am therefore also looking forward to the Kingdom's Arctic strategy being evaluated, as has been announced. We need to take a position on the increasing international interest in the work of the Arctic Council. It is important that we take an active position on the role of indigenous peoples' organisations in future work, but also in relation to political work. The Arctic Council is growing and it is in many ways very pleasing, but it is important that key players in the Arctic Council and in the development of the Arctic are also forward-looking the Arctic local population. In the coming years, the Arctic Council will decide on the role of autonomous nations in the Council, including the future role of Greenland. Decisions on a large number of matters that are of direct importance to the Arctic and to the development of our region are taken by the parliaments of the Autonomous Nations, which is why a more important role in the Arctic Council is a natural development. The relationship between Greenland and Denmark is in a global perspective a model for indigenous peoples. We can be proud of the political self-determination that we have achieved together. Greenland, compared to many other indigenous peoples in the world, has come a very long way in a very short time. It obliges to be forward in the shoes, and Greenland and Denmark have a role to play in promoting and protecting the rights of indigenous peoples. The government is hereby encouraged to continue to support this work, and in particular I would urge the government to support the important work that the ICC Greenland tirelessly does to represent the Greenlandic population internationally by among other things. to promote the UN Declaration on the Rights of indigenous peoples. It is about building a strong and healthy society from the bottom up with basic human rights as a foundation. For Greenland, it is about our politically, but also through a strong civil society, constantly updating and expanding our foreign policy commitment, so that our voice is heard and in time we build up important knowledge and strong international relations. During the Canadian Presidency of the Arctic Council, the Arctic Economic Council was established. This is a very interesting initiative which shows that we in the Arctic have become aware that we have to anticipate and we have to respond to the economic opportunities that are created by an increased interest in our area. I would like us to have the growing international interest translated into targeted action together, so that through strategic investment in new industries we could help to ensure that interest also benefited the Community. We know that market prices for minerals and oil are at a low point at this time, but there are a great many other growth opportunities, for example. tourism, innovation, entrepreneurship or research that can help create new opportunities. Let me give you a few examples. We see, for example, that there is an increase in tourism in general. Tourists from the United States, Canada and Germany show interest, while at the same time we get fewer tourists from Denmark and fewer who travel domestic in Greenland, i.e.. real tourists. We are expanding the tourist season and we see that, despite the fact that we have fewer cruise tourists, we have a record year in relation to tourism. Let us, then, support this positive development for the benefit of all of us. Let us use an innovative search and presentation of new business opportunities to open investors' interest in Greenland. Infrastructure, entrepreneurs and tourism follow-ups could be obvious projects to invest in. The EU, the Nordic countries or Denmark could be investment partners who could help pave the way and ensure positive economic development in Greenland. Obama said during his visit to Alaska not so long ago that climate change in the Arctic not only affects the population living in the Arctic, they affect the whole world. Many researchers today are studying what effects climate change has in the Arctic. I believe there are opportunities in that Greenland can be far more ambitious in terms of being a research nation that can translate international research and best practice in our part of the Arctic into groundbreaking new knowledge and economic benefits. We can look at the physical and technological infrastructure so that we can create growth and we can be part of a more globalised world. Let us use the new technology, for example. drones, laser technology and satellites to help develop our knowledge and solve specific tasks. We know that there are tasks such as sea surveying, monitoring and rescue tasks in Greenland. We need to adapt to a new reality. Greenland should be even more famous for being green, for being environmentally conscious and for focusing on sustainability. The decisions we make today affect our children, it affects our successors. If we say yes to uranium and to being a uranium exporting country, we end up throwing the bill to our children. Inuit Ataqatigiit will not do that. We need to turn our focus from short-term growth to preserving the positive picture, as there is, of Greenland and the Greenlandic nature. It's about creating long-term sustainable growth, human, social and in harmony with our nature. We also still have a struggle to ensure sustainable seal hunting and the sale of sealskins. In the European Union, despite an Inuit exemption, the EU ban has meant that we need to have increased knowledge among consumers, and we need to remove the trade barriers that exist for the sale of Greenlandic products. We need to remind the European Union together that action must be taken behind the decision to inform EU citizens that Greenland's seal catch is sustainable. It is important that Greenland is regarded as an international player and we should participate in everything that concerns us. This also applies to the case of the base contract relating to Thule Air Base, a case in which we in Inuit Ataqatigiits believe that the defence agreement should be evaluated for renegotiation. Because the Thule Air Base case isn't over. Greenland Contractors have had their contract renewed for six months, so the matter is far from over. We must stand together for a common definition of what a Greenlandic-Danish company is and we must not let the United States overwhelm us on this issue. It is of far too great economic and moral importance to Greenland for us to accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020205806	Could the rapporteur just stand still? There is one brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020205809	Thank you very much for a very, very exciting comment on the three reports. At least there were many new things for me in what the rapporteur was talking about. One thing that came to mind is that I very much agree with many of the visions, especially if the sustainable • is: what need does the rapporteur think is in terms of making a common response, and what need is there to expand Arctic Command? In which direction should it be? I sometimes doubt that. After all, 85 people are available, 45 of whom are in Nuuk. And what else does it take for you to think it's safe? Now we've talked a little about it in different contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020205902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020205902-2	Thank you very much for the question. I will deal with this a little more in the next item on defence cooperation. But I would like to hurry to say that I have just been to Greenland and have spoken to Arctic Command, and some of what I hear is that in Greenland there is increasing activity, among other things. research activities, so it also does that Arctic Command has a lot of tasks. And this analysis, which the Ministry of Defence will provide in relation to the Arctic, will probably also show that there may be a need for more resources to carry out the tasks in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020205937	The questioner on a brief note? No, there was no wish to do so, so thank the rapporteur. Next in the series of speeches is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020205957	Dear Ministers. Thank you for the explanations that I have really been looking forward to reading. I look forward to reading what the Danish state's priority for the next decade will be for the Arctic. In connection with the opening debate, I called on my fellow Members in this Chamber to engage in and debate issues which are not yet areas of Greenland's autonomy. This, of course, also applies to areas such as, for example: Arctic Command and focus on justice and not least military presence, environment and search and rescue preparedness. I arrived last night from Iceland, where I participated in Arctic Circle Assembly, where there were almost 1,900 participants from all over the world who are interested in the Arctic. Geology, climate, permafrost, new shipping routes, new opportunities in research, icebreakers, Arctic policies, culture, potential investors, investments, climate goals, opportunities and challenges are discussed and illustrated here. I would have liked to have seen a great deal of participation from the Danish side and a great deal of interest in the area. Maybe it'll get in touch with the next meeting. The world map is being drawn anew, this time with the Arctic as the center. This brings with it very urgent issues, but there are also certainly many new challenges and opportunities. Here it is important that each country has clear objectives for its Arctic efforts and strategy. • Action that has clear objectives to meet the challenges of the future, not least for the states that are Arctic states. The questions are more pressing than ever. In Siumut we have for a number of years clearly announced that we are working for an independent Greenland. From Siumut's side, we have always led through time to take responsibility from the Danish state when we felt we were ready for it. That development is fine and perfectly natural. It is a process that must be carried out with Denmark, so that each of us ensures a good and respectful transfer. It is a responsibility that obliges you to know more about and engage more in Greenland. I note that the Government's Arctic statement sets out many responsibilities which have already been taken home by Greenland. One might be surprised that it takes up so much in the statement. I would have liked the government to have given more attention to how to strengthen efforts in the Arctic part of the kingdom, and also how far the implementation of the Kingdom's common Arctic strategy has progressed, showing which way Denmark will direct its focus, especially perhaps also in the area of justice, which is a neglected area, and not least the major challenges that Arctic Command faces in terms of search and rescue preparedness, sovereignty enforcement and, not least, oil spilling efforts, which recently gave rise to major challenges in East Greenland. We imagine a future also for Greenland's independence, where Denmark, together with Greenland, has a role to play in the Arctic • a future where we make use of the opportunities and knowledge we have gained together through our coexistence. So I ask: What does Denmark want with the Arctic? The Minister refers to the Danish Arctic strategy, which suggests that we use the new opportunities in the Arctic. In Greenland, a ruby mine is being built south of Nuuk. The mine is financed by Norwegian business. It is hardly by chance that Norway has a clear objective to develop the profession in the Norwegian part of the Arctic. Norway announced last year that they extradated 2.5 billion Norwegian kroner in 2015, so that they can be converted into new opportunities and new jobs in the Arctic. Norway has even declared that the Arctic is the most important foreign policy area for Norway. Greenland itself, of course, has part of the responsibility for the current efforts, but especially in the field of industry, Denmark and Greenland could benefit from increased cooperation. The new opportunities can lead to sustainable business development in Greenland, but they can also lead to jobs and income from Denmark if Denmark wants to. This opportunity paves the way for a win-win business. The statement also focuses on a desire for peaceful development in the Arctic. We fully agree with that and it underlines the Ilulissat Declaration, which the Arctic Five and the rest of the Arctic countries have chosen to respect. We all want that. However, if we look at the countries around us, we can see a significant build-up in the Arctic, a build-up in investment in infrastructure, research, bilateral cooperation, SAR preparedness, security and much more. The Minister explains that the Danish side is still awaiting an analysis of the defence's future task solution in the Arctic. We will also look forward to reading it. The Minister also explains that there will be an oil spill exercise in 2016. That, of course, gives hope for the future. This year, when there was a small oil spill in Greenlandic waters, it took 5 days before the emergency response came to the area. It is clear to everyone that there is a need for better preparedness with newer and suitable equipment if the task is to be satisfactorily solved for the whole Kingdom. It is equally clear that even closer cooperation with our neighbours in Iceland, Norway and Canada is necessary in the event of a major accident. It is a necessity which has been taken seriously by the Arctic Council for many years. A country alone would not be able to meet this challenge. Iceland, for example, has already purchased the necessary equipment for rapid and efficient searching of large areas by aircraft in case the accident hits a cruise ship. An up-to-date alert will also be required for Greenland. The analysis of the defence's future activities was initiated at the request of the National Audit Office's criticism of the Greenlandic preparedness. This is an unfortunate background, but in a way the timing is lucky, because the Danish decision to buy new fighter planes is on the stairs. It is potentially the largest Danish investment in armaments ever. In this context, it gives the responsibility of the Danish state in the Arctic a chance to be prioritized and upgraded to be able to have its own aircraft and better preparedness and training. Denmark's build-up and engagement in the Arctic is of great importance. It will also in itself be a signal to our Arctic neighbouring countries about the ambitions Denmark has for its future presence in the Arctic. The Arctic strategy also aims to make Denmark a leader in research in a number of areas. This is among other things. The consequences of climate change. This is very good in itself, but research in the Arctic could easily be given a new business-oriented dimension. Business-oriented research cooperation between companies and universities will be able to strengthen both our countries and thus also strengthen community cooperation. There could be, for example: researches using enzymes found only in Greenland, organic farming of fish, seaweed production or a number of other areas. This could be beneficial for the creation of jobs in Greenland and for the profit for Danish companies who are engaged in research and in promoting sustainability in the Arctic. We need a different Arctic policy which is financially supported and proactive and which takes care of the problems when they arise. We need joint projects, joint investments, joint research platform, joint initiatives and common objectives as strong partners in the new Arctic. As long as we belong together, we must ensure good successes; we can create them together and, above all, create best practices on cooperation in the Arctic region. There must be a policy that seeks to exploit the new opportunities that climate change brings with it. The Danish Kingdom's submission regarding the requirement for the continental shelf will bring and demand many research tasks, monitoring the Arctic Sea, and not least it will bring new knowledge • an effort that hopefully ultimately results in a larger territory. This requires targeted action and strategy. We imagine a future cooperation in which Denmark plays a role in the Arctic for many years to come, a role that is far more ambitious and more committed than today, an Arctic strategy that is also financially supported and secured, an Arctic strategy that makes Greenland-Denmark cooperation a strong Arctic nation and an Arctic state worthy. From Siumut's point of view, we would like to acknowledge the measures outlined by the Minister. However, we still believe that it is appropriate to step up efforts for the benefit of both countries. It is important to have ambitious objectives and not to maintain a minimum commitment to the Arctic Council's own working groups and similar ones. It is an outstretched hand for Denmark, which Denmark can accept if desired. We look forward to a joint strengthened effort to strengthen the Arctic nation's commitment on behalf of the kingdom together with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020211012	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, so thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020211035	Thank you. Thank you for the explanations. I should particularly like to comment on the issue of Nordic co-operation and Arctic cooperation. From the Faroese side we would like to see strong and well-developed Nordic cooperation, for which we also believe there is good potential. The Nordic countries have to a large extent the same cultural background and very much the same values on which we are based. And the Nordic countries are gifted with a strong economy, the 12th strongest economy in the world, a high level of welfare, a high level of education and a large land and sea area rich in resources. And then we have a fire that enjoys great prestige all over the world. The more Nordic co-operation is developed, the stronger the Nordic Region will be economically, politically and culturally in the global picture. Of the well-intentioned initiatives listed during the Danish Presidency in the Nordic Council of Ministers, I particularly appreciate initiatives such as the Könberg report on health and the ambitious initiative to remove border barriers in the Nordic region, so that the Nordic region will be the leading region for borderless cooperation in order to create jobs and growth. However, like other speakers, I also lack greater commitment in the tough political areas such as the economy, defence and relations with NATO and the European Union. Unfortunately, the Faroe Islands do not benefit from the Nordic cooperation agreements and conventions as other Nordic citizens, as we are only covered by the agreements as part of Denmark. In fact, we are in the slightly grotesque situation that other Nordic citizens in certain contexts have better protected rights in Denmark than Faroese citizens have. For example: a Faroese early retirement pensionist does not automatically transfer his rights from the Faroe Islands to Denmark, nor does a benefit recipient receive the same rights in Denmark as other Nordic citizens covered by the conventions. In addition, there are several uncertainties when other Nordic citizens move to the Faroe Islands, because rules and arrangements in the Faroe Islands and Denmark are not always identical. We will have these ambiguities and rights if the Faroe Islands are also included as an independent part of the Nordic agreements and conventions. And the fact that the Faroe Islands are to become an independent member of Nordic co-operation in the future, with the duties and benefits that come with it, is a great deal of support in the new Faroese government. Now that the reform work in the Nordic Council of Ministers is in full swing, it would be very appropriate for the Danish Presidency to add a further recommendation to the 39 already listed for reform work, namely that the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Åland should be given the opportunity to participate in Nordic co-operation on an independent basis. Regarding the Arctic: The Faroese continental shelf extends far north around the Arctic Circle. But the Faroe Islands are also in other ways inextricably linked to the Arctic, because the conditions in the Arctic are so important to the marine environment, which is our basis of existence, and because we are geographically a gateway to the Arctic area. Historically, Faroese fishermen can be compared to Arctic explorers, because we have pioneered in terms of fishing, north of Iceland, east of Greenland, west of Greenland, on New Foundland's straits, in the Barents Sea and up to Svalbard. For us, the Arctic is not just a modern geopolitical or research buzzword. The Arctic has been, and still is, a large part of our business base. Environmental developments in the Arctic region are also of vital importance for the development of fish stocks and the conditions for salmon farming in our own waters, which are greatly affected by the temperature of the sea and the strength of the Gulf Stream. While we are concerned about what the melting ice means for the viability of fish stocks in the Arctic area and in the Faroese sea area, we are also looking at the possibilities of a changed traffic structure when a growing part of maritime transport between East and West goes north of Russia and past the Faroe Islands, either on the way out or on the way home. It makes demands for preparedness, as Aleqa Hammond has just explained, but it also offers great opportunities for the well-developed maritime service sector to market the Faroe Islands as a maritime service station and attract more calls in the Faroe Islands ports. Several initiatives have already been taken to contribute to a significant growth in revenue for this sector, and to help us achieve a more diversified income in the future. Sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine mammals is a necessity for survival in the North Atlantic and the Arctic. Our prairies and hunting grounds are the sea because we have so little land area where animals can graze and fields can be harvested. Not everyone who lives under other and more favourable conditions understands that. You yourselves know the reactions to laughing killings, which is actually a very modest exploitation of a well-established population of laughing whales. Approx. 900,000 whales are estimated to be in the area around the Faroe Islands, and we catch averages maybe 800 a year for local consumption. The so-called civilised world has also greatly aggravated the survival conditions of the Arctic peoples, such as: have lived on seal catches and the products that could be produced on that basis. One thing is that it has put traditional prisoner culture under severe pressure. Another is that the exploding stock of seals is seriously thinning out fish stocks, which would otherwise be life-giving for Arctic communities and the world's population. Here the great civilised countries really need a deep insight into Arctic conditions, so that they take a position on whaling and seal hunting based on the living conditions of the peoples of the north, rather than taking into account the attitudes of city dwellers who form their views on nature's progress in protected café environments. The recent conference in Reykjavík was very inspiring, as there was ample opportunity to get acquainted with people and topics moving from geopolitical heavyweights to local entrepreneurs at microlevel. I find it fascinating that so many of the world's countries are looking at the development of the Arctic with such great commitment, as it is important to understand what is actually happening in the wake of the changed weather conditions, why they are happening and what consequences they have elsewhere on the planet, and then we can reflect on what we can do to mitigate the negative consequences. However, this deeply affected me personally when the Chairman of the Inuit Circumpolar Council, Okalik Eegeesiak, urged the high lords and women to respect the indigenous people of the Arctic. She spoke in favour of confirming the Arctic of the Inuit as a nation in the sense of international law and asked the many stakeholders not to forget the Arctic people and their living conditions in all their projects. The challenges facing the people of the Arctic have many similarities with the challenges we face in the Faroe Islands, such as the consequences of changing weather conditions, ensuring continuous population growth and a sustainable economy. That is why we are very useful in actively participating in Arctic cooperation on research and sustainable development, and we can contribute in concrete terms with our many experiences, for example. fisheries, navigation, management of natural resources, skills development and research. The Faroe Islands therefore have a clear interest in actively participating in the Arctic Council. As it is now, Denmark is a member of the Arctic Council or the Kingdom of Denmark on behalf of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. One may wonder, for those who live and die in conditions up north are Greenland, which is located nearest to the North Pole, and the Faroe Islands, which are located at the Arctic gate. Denmark, as you know, lies considerably further south and is therefore not directly affected by the conditions in the Arctic in the same way. One might therefore rightly ask why Greenland and the Faroe Islands do not have independent membership of the Arctic Council. Of course, membership is of great geopolitical importance to Denmark, but the geopolitical harvest is partly at the expense of Greenlandic and Faroese interests. If Greenland or the Faroe Islands are to defend their own interests, this must be done through Denmark, which has given in its primary foreign policy loyalty to the EU, and we have recently had very bad experiences with this in the Faroe Islands. The so-called foreign policy authorization laws are also so clumsy that they do not contain opposing interests between Greenland and the Faroe Islands. If that situation arises, and it did so the other day in NEAFC cooperation on fishing in international waters, then we are blocking each other's ability to assert our views. It will not work in the long run, and it is only a matter of time before opposing interests in the Faroe Islands and Greenland will create considerable tensions in the Kingdom of Denmark as far as Greenland and the Faroe Islands are concerned. I therefore recommend that Greenland and the Faroe Islands have independent membership of the Arctic Council, preferably assisted by Denmark. Objectively speaking, the EU will take care of Denmark's interests through its observer status, but I can hardly imagine anything other than that Greenland and the Faroe Islands will, as far as possible, calibrate their views in relation to the Danish government and draw on the competences that the government may be able to provide. And after hearing Martin Lidegaard's speech tonight, I might also have moderated my script in relation to his excellent proposal for a common Arctic strategy, where one could then achieve common ground between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but still away with the basis that the Faroe Islands and Greenland each have their own members in the Arctic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212203	Thank you. There is one brief comment: Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212211	Now it is the case that I have not heard that Greenland has officially announced that Greenland wants to be an independent member of the Arctic Council, since the members of the Arctic Council are only states. It is eight states that are members of the Arctic Council, and that is the arrangement under which we must abide. But having said that, I still want Greenland to have a strong seat in the Arctic Council, and Greenland can in many ways also be the leading word in the Arctic Council on behalf of the kingdom. We may well be, because we have good powers when it comes to discussions in the Arctic Council. Having said that, what are the Faroe Islands' specific ambitions for participation in the Arctic Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212301	I would like to say, as I have also explained in my speech here today, that the circumstances surrounding the Arctic are extremely important for the future of the Faroe Islands, especially as regards the marine environment. But I also believe that, with all the experience we have had in the Arctic region for more than 100 years as pioneers in fisheries and in all the Arctic areas, too, if I am to look at the developments that we have had in Faroese society over the last 50 years, when we have almost reached the point where we have a self-sustaining economy and have a great deal of well-being in our business community, we have a great deal to contribute and help in the development of the Arctic region. We would like to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212344	The second brief remark, the questioner? No. Then that's the next question. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212353	Thank you. These were wonderfully challenging ideas that the rapporteur gave us. Thank you for them. I would like to say that the idea of independent membership of Nordic cooperation was mentioned as the first. Can the rapporteur elaborate on this? Because we sometimes have some trouble finding out how best to be represented across the political parties, but also by the Faroese and Greenlandic representatives, so that we have the best possible representation when we meet in the Nordic Council. Will he try to say a little about how practically it could be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212434	I'm not quite sure I understand the question. I have to admit, frankly, that I myself do not have the full experience in the Nordic Council context, because I have not actually yet been able to participate in it. But, of course, I have got into the matter a little bit, and I understand that the same issue was being debated back in 2008. There was no agreement at that time for the Faroe Islands to have an independent membership of the Nordic Council. As I explained at the beginning, it is indeed the case that we are now taking part in the parliamentary part in an independent way, but when it comes to the conventions and the cooperation agreements concluded between the Nordic countries, we are not involved as an independent part, but only as part of Denmark. But, as you know, the Faroe Islands are not Denmark, and we have had a debate earlier this afternoon, where we have just seen that Denmark transfers more and more of its legislative competences to the EU, and then some competences remain in Denmark, and some competences remain in the Faroe Islands. Therefore, there are no identical legal conditions, and this means that in many cases we have quite a lot of difficulties with things that are not calibrated. That means, for example, that forefathers... can be in a special situation when moving to Denmark or other Nordic inhabited places. But all that would be resolved if we were an independent part of the conventions covered by Nordic co-operation. Of course we will have an ambition to be part of the Nordic Council of Ministers in the longer term, but whether it is something that we can do at the same time or whether we can do it over time is then a pragmatic issue that can be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212607	Does the author wish to make another brief comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212611	Thank you. I think it sounds interesting, and I also think it is worth considering. I would certainly urge the Faroese representatives to continue their efforts and not to give up, because I believe that there can of course be ways of improving cooperation. In particular, I believe that we will have to look at this if there is a difference in the way in which early retirement and unemployed births are treated compared with other Nordic countries' representatives who come to Denmark. Yeah, well, then we should have a serious look at it. That has been the purpose of the cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212646	Thank you. There are also several other such practical things in this context where you could benefit from having these things calibrated better than they are today. And Christian Juhl can be absolutely sure that we will continue the fight until we have achieved that goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212703	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think we have a technical challenge to look at. I shall move on to the list of speakers, and the last rapporteur in this series of speakers is Mr Beazley. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020212724	Thank you. When you come to the end of such a debate where there are no major differences, there may be a danger of a little repetition. So I shall try to cut away what has been said before. I would first like to commend the governments for the way they have managed the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. I can't get around it all, but I'll mention some issues. I think it is very positive that so much emphasis is placed on border barriers, and Denmark is, after all, a pioneering country when it comes to removing border barriers, with the agreement between the government and the Folketing that was reached some time ago. Well, then, I'd like to, just like Mr. Knox. Magni Arge did, reminding us that we also have challenges in the Kingdom community in that area and the Nordic Region is also the Kingdom Community. I have drawn up a list of 17 difficult obstacles after citizens have approached me as a parliamentarian. I've looked at them and found out they're not just isolated cases. That is because the rules and the laws are such that there are some real border barriers between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. These obstacles between Denmark and the Faroe Islands are spreading over many areas, and in order to make things simpler, a working group was set up by the former government on the initiative of us North Atlantics. It was coordinated by the Ministry of Social Affairs, and there were members from both the Faroe Islands and Greenland who had this as their focus. I do not know what the status of this work is now, but I would recommend that it continue in the same way. Otherwise, there is a danger that no one is responsible and that nothing will happen. We had some obstacles removed in the last parliamentary term, but most of them are still gone. So I hope that one of the days we can have a meeting with the government about that relationship. The government combines Nordic co-operation with Arctic cooperation in its Presidency and in its statement, and there you also have the right approach: not to look at the Arctic as a kind of reserve, but to focus on sustainable development, which is also the title of the Nordic Council of Ministers' Arctic cooperation programme. For the Arctic must be preserved, but it must not only be preserved. It must also be developed. Investment must be made, jobs must be created and growth must be created, because people live in the area. The Arctic is not and should not be a protected natural park. That is why, of course, I think it is absolutely crucial that development is sustainable, because the area is very vulnerable. It is equally important, however, that there should be development for the benefit of the people who live there. They have the same right as everyone else to exploit their business opportunities and their natural resources. The fact that the people of the Arctic have this right is not really all voices in the debate that mean it. There's a lot of people who think it should be some kind of reservation. When it comes to security and business opportunities in the Arctic, it is often two sides of the same coin. In his speech, Henrik Dam Kristensen spoke about cruise ships, etc., but preparedness is also investment; it is also income; it is also jobs. These are not contradictions, they are two sides of the same coin. It is above all the government that speaks in the relevant Arctic fora, but Denmark is not an Arctic state, as Mr. Magni Arge said. It is Greenland, but also the Faroe Islands, that gives Denmark the status Denmark has in this context. The Faroe Islands are just within what is formally called the Arctic circle on the threshold between Europe and the Arctic. Therefore, the government, together with the two other governments of the Kingdom, should do what it can to focus on the opportunities for research, preparedness, shipping and business development in general provided by the geographical location of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I fully agree with Martin Lidegaard, the Radical Left rapporteur, when he says that we should have a much more offensive Arctic strategy. When you think about the very extensive and very profitable research going on at Svalbard, you can sometimes think that we have not been good enough to sell our countries in this context. As far as the Faroe Islands are concerned, they are in the middle of one of the global highways of the future, the North-East Passage, and the Faroese business community would like to, as Mr. Magni Arge also mentioned, making the Faroe Islands a kind of pit stop, where ships come by and get changed manning, get piled oil, get bought food etc. and get repairs done and then move on. We should be united in creating interest from relevant investors in this context. I also come from the conference in Iceland, Arctic Circle, where one of the heads of the investment bank Guggenheim Partners among others. talked about how much would be invested in the infrastructure of the Arctic in the years to come, and this is therefore a very, very large amount. It is not a coincidence where investment falls. Being about one plays a major role, selling oneself is very crucial, and the kingdom should do so in a common Arctic strategy. A Greenlandic-Danish working group was set up in 2013 to investigate how to attract investment to Greenland. We should do the same with regard to the Faroe Islands. At the same time as Denmark and the Faroe Islands should cooperate more, we must also recognise that Denmark and the Faroe Islands go in different directions in certain very fundamental areas. These are primarily those areas where Denmark is committed to EU membership, while the Faroe Islands are outside the EU. In his statement to this meeting, the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions the case of sanctions imposed by the EU and therefore also Denmark against the Faroe Islands in 2013. The case was a consequence of Denmark and the Faroe Islands going in different directions. Earlier today we discussed here in the Danish Parliament the proposal that Denmark should accede to an electoral system in the legal field. It is another step that leads Denmark one way and the Faroe Islands the other way. When you're going to be together while you're going separate ways, you have to give each other space. I think that we do, on the whole, but the longer Denmark enters the EU, the more inclusive we must make the Kingdom community, if it is to be able to be linked, also in the field of foreign policy. There we have some problems that the previous speaker also mentioned. We now have a law called the law of foreign policy authorization, where there is a requirement that there is a parallelism between Greenland and the Faroe Islands. If the Faroe Islands are included in an agreement and Greenland is also included, we must have the same view. We cannot have different views and we can block each other. Sometimes we don't have the same interests. Recently there have been a few cases where Greenland and the Faroe Islands had different interests, and then you can just block each other because one party cannot go further if the other says no. The parallelity of the law between Greenland and the Faroe Islands is a problem, and therefore the law should be repealed. It's locking us down. It can create conflicts between Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which then fall back on Denmark in the end. It's like a forced marriage that's not beneficial in the long run. We should go back to the system we had before, where pragmatic solutions are found on a case-by-case basis. Of course, when it comes to the Arctic Council, we must also speak with the same voice, but that is not so problematic. I do not think there is much disagreement about what should be said in the Arctic Council, between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Of course, it requires a good dialogue to find common ground, but I think the interests are the same. On the other hand, there is one member of the Arctic Council who does not have the same interests as the others, and that can make it very difficult. Of course, I am thinking of Russia. There is a very great danger that, for example, there is a risk that there will be an increase in unemployment. from the conflict in Ukraine is a spillover at the Arctic Council. This may be a difficult situation and therefore the Nordic Region should be more united, as other speakers have also said. We have had peace in the Nordic countries for 201 years, and when something has lasted 201 years, you can finally take it for granted, of course. But it is not a law of nature that there is peace in the North. It is a political success. The Nordic Council is a symbol of this political success, and much of the success in recent decades is due to it. Open borders, common rights, etc. We take for granted, but it is thanks to the Nordic Council. The internal success should be used more actively externally. Personally, I think that we would be strongest if the whole North were in NATO and the whole Nordic region were in the European Union, because then we could have a very strong influence on it from the inside. That is not the situation, but it is therefore very positive to see that we in the Nordic Council are now moving more towards talking about defence policy, about coordinating defence policy, and also becoming a more outgoing body. As I said, there are very explosive substances in the Arctic Council these days. There is potential for serious conflicts, which is why it is very important for the Nordic Region to stand together and speak with the same voice and to put forward the same values that we have jointly in the North internally, both in Europe and in the Arctic Council, and that we defend the principles that have been laid down for Arctic cooperation so far, namely demilitarisation, and that it is everyone's property. I think I am stopping here because most of what I had to say has actually been said earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213750	There are just two brief comments. The first is sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213757	Thank you. I think that both the Kingdom Community and the Nordic Council should be as spacious as possible, but there is no reason why the rapporteur should say that the more Denmark joins the EU, the more spacious things must be. It may well happen that parts of Denmark are eager to go more into the EU, but the majority of the Danish population likes Europe, but not the EU we know at the moment. It is the political elite who unfortunately currently have the majority who want to go that way. The Danes would rather towards the North, rather towards a community that way when you ask them. That's what any investigation shows. Therefore, there is also the will both in the Danish population and elsewhere to work more closely with both the Faroe Islands and Greenland and also to find practical solutions to the problems that are there. I am absolutely convinced of that. But thank you so much for your speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213852	I'm just saying it as a statement. Every time Denmark sends an area to the EU to be managed, the part of what concerns the Faroe Islands must be moved to the Faroe Islands, and then Denmark and the Faroe Islands are increasingly separated. This has been seen in trade policy, fisheries policy, foreign policy and now also in the area of justice. So if it is a yes on 3 December, it will be the case that the more dishes Denmark takes from the roof-table, then you get served • the more areas you move to Brussels • the greater the separation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. It's just a statement I'm making.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213928	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213932	Yeah, it's gonna be very short. Because I think the Danes are so abundantly saturated at that roof-top table, so I think it will happen at a very, much slower pace in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213948	That was just a comment on what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213951	I'm just gonna make sure there was one more questioner? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020213959	The second Faroese member, Magni Arge, made a request for full membership of the Nordic Council on behalf of the Faroe Islands. Now I do not know whether the rapporteur is in the same position. I would like to ask a few questions about this, and if so, do you think that the Åland document should now be re-evaluated?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020214022	It was Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. There was a technical error where the questioner disappeared from the terminal up here. But here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020214030	Now the questioner asked me personally: I personally think that the arrangement we have now is fine. I have to say this in person. I know that there is a clear majority in the political system in the Faroe Islands that wants full membership, where you are a member like a state. I myself think that the system we now have is working well, so this is not a very important task for me. I am not against it, but it is not my main priority that the Faroe Islands should have full membership.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020214101	The questioner on the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020214104	Yes, that is true; there are many different views on different cases. Sometimes we don't agree with each other, but it's okay as long as we can find a good understanding among ourselves. I was at the conference in Iceland, too. We came home yesterday. I also heard Mr Guggenheim's own views and opinions on future major investments in the Arctic area, and major port constructions were discussed for the new shipping routes in which various countries have a great interest. This also means that, in the context of possible investments, we are preparing not only new protocols for the Arctic area, but also new arrangements, which I think are very, very important. As far as these projects are concerned, what is the rapporteur's view of joint investment by the Danish Kingdom in the Arctic area on major infrastructure issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020214202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020214205	As I said, if you are to attract investment, you have to be about yourself, you have to sell yourself, you have to demonstrate the benefits of investing right where you want investment to fall. There it would be a great advantage if Denmark and the Faroe Islands and Denmark and Greenland went out together. Because here we also have competition between the different countries. Of course, Norway itself will be the pit stop I was talking about. Iceland is now building a large port up in the north-east, and of course they do not want the Faroe Islands to get too much of the cake. Here we are competitors, which is why it is important that you go out together and sell yourself as well as you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020214242	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we are ready for the ministers. The first minister is the Minister for Nordic Cooperation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020214253	Thank you. We've come a long way here tonight... not unnaturally with three exposition debates. I shall then focus on the comments that were made on the report on Nordic co-operation. Thank you for the contributions that have been made. We have also made a little effort in this explanation for natural reasons to tell about the Danish Presidency in connection with the Nordic Council of Ministers, where activities have been carried out throughout the year and will continue to be carried out until the turn of the year in a large number of different ministerial areas. I would like to emphasise that we have been pleased to be able to include both Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the Presidency. This applies to the Presidency's projects, and it also applies to the Presidency's meetings. A number of people have raised the issue of border barriers, and this has also been a priority for the Danish Presidency. It is crucial that companies and workers do not encounter a lot of unnecessary difficulties when moving across borders, and Denmark has therefore this year focused on removing border barriers in the Nordic countries. This work is progressing well, not least with the involvement of the social partners. We have, for example. progress on the right to absenteeism of commuters at meetings of political assemblies, and the question of occupational rehabilitation also seems to have been resolved. However, it takes time to find solutions with other countries on often quite technical issues, and the work must therefore continue. At the same time, we must be careful that we do not unintentionally create new obstacles by, for example, the Nordic countries. unintentionally implementing EU legislation differently. From Sjúrður Skaale there was a question of whether there could be a dialogue on border barriers between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, and of course we can have a dialogue about it. I do not have the opportunity to answer how far one is in the work that has been started under the previous government and what status it is, but we can then come back to that. I also promised Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen just to say a little about the Nordic Information Office in Flensburg for the reason that Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen forgot to take it up, he said. But you are allowed to talk, even if you have come down from the platform, so I would like to make a comment on that. It is a matter on which the government supports one hundred per cent, that is to say, that you get a Nordic House established in Flensburg. We do, as we do, among other things. wishes to create a strong environment for Nordic culture and a visible and outgoing platform for the Nordic Council and Nordic Council of Ministers' international interests and branding of the Nordic Region. But we are also doing so because we see an opportunity to make the information office in Flensburg an exponent of a good Nordic minority model. A further 150,000 kroner has been granted. to the office in Flensburg to hold a conference on national minorities in the Nordic countries. The funds then go beyond the DKK 200,000 that the office receives every year from the Nordic Council of Ministers for its operation. But when it comes to the formation of a Nordic house, we have had to note that this is a view that we have on our own from the Danish side. There are some countries that are directly opposed and there are other countries that are, you might call it a little uninterested on the issue. It is probably not so much the question of the money it would cost to make a Nordic house that one might be able to solve if the will was there but a more fundamental and fundamental opposition that is in the Council of Ministers. And when we have the debates, it is pointed out that the Nordic Embassy complex, which is in Berlin, should instead be used as the Nordic window in Germany. It is not the case that the government has given up on finding support for the Flensburg office, and that is something that we will return to in the Council of Ministers at some point. We will reach a small step in the 2016 budget, we will not reach the goal, but we will have to take the steps one by one and see how long it will then take before we have received the support of the other countries for it. I would just like to highlight the strengthened foreign policy focus we have been given this year in our Nordic cooperation. This year, the Nordic Council of Ministers has made a strong commitment to the challenges that include: is experienced in the Baltic, against the backdrop of pressure from Russia, which must be seen in the light of the conflict in Ukraine. There is agreement in the Nordic countries that we must show solidarity with the Baltic countries and maintain our criticism of Russian behaviour. After an effort by the Danish Presidency and all the Nordic co-operation ministers, the Nordic Council of Ministers has been quick on the ball against Russian propaganda. This has again happened as something new in cooperation with the Nordic and Baltic Foreign Ministers in the so-called NB8 circle. This means that the Nordic Council of Ministers supports the efforts of the Baltic countries to ensure that there are alternatives to the misinformation of Russian television stations. Then there were a number of comments, not so much on the statements, but on the forward-looking ones. There was the question of the participation of the Faroe Islands in Nordic co-operation, and we have certainly enjoyed sharing the work with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, also in relation to the Presidency, and we support the desire of the autonomous regions for a strengthened role in the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. After all, the agreement reached in 2007 was a major step in that direction. Then Mr. Martin Lidegaard in the field of energy, and in relation to COP21 it is really important that we can tell about the Nordic energy solutions. During the presidency, we are also in the process of highlighting this in the Nordic model as part of the branding of the Nordic Region. I think that is what I would like to begin by making comments on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020215205	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020215212	Thank you. I never forget the Nordic House in Flensburg... I got my speech wrong. But I would like to thank the Minister for taking it up and I would like to thank him for the $150,000. And if it is every year that the Minister is there that he gets $150,000, then I do not know if I could have a wish that the Minister should be there for many years. I don't know if I have, but at least I'm happy if it's $150,000. every year. I'm kidding. I think it is a good step in relation to the discussion we have had, and I agree with the Minister that it is also about the more fundamental discussion, about the gate between the Nordic and European countries and the interest shown by Schleswig in Nordic co-operation, and there I think the Minister has helped us to sign for it by dribbling the discussion about the Nordic House in Flensburg further. So I'm actually just gonna sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020215303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020215305	Thanks for the words. It is clear that the Flensburg office would have preferred it to be a permanent operating grant and not just an appropriation to hold a conference on national minorities. Because it's also about how to scale and plan an office. But I also think they are happy that there is this possibility, and then there will also be the possibility of seeking some of the project funds, where there may also be a little longer-term projects, which you will also be able to apply from the office in Flensburg. And that is something you can influence in relation to what kind of project you would like to sign up with. What I am trying to say, I think, is that the longer you do it, the more it can also function as a kind of bottom during an operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020215403	The questioner on the second brief remark? No. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Nordic cooperation, and I will give the floor to the Foreign Minister and there will be some ten minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020215415	Yes, I think I can stay within that; at least I can try. First of all, thank you very much for the many comments that have been made on the statements. I think that the great interest that has been bears witness to the importance of cooperation, both in the Arctic and also in the Baltic Sea region. I think this is positive and we will build on it. First of all, if I have to add a few words to the Baltic Sea region, I would say that this is a very wide-ranging work. Nor is there any doubt that the work being done at the moment bears witness to the fact that there are conflicts with one of the very significant countries, namely Russia, in a large number of other areas. That is why the work of the Baltic Sea Council, like that, has needed to be restarted in relation to what role it should have seen in the light of it, and I know that the Polish Presidency intends to do so. You have just put forward an informal discussion on how the Baltic Council should play a role in the future, and the aim is to clarify: what are the options? How can we get the Baltic Council back to the meaning it has had? I think it would be very positive if the Baltic Council could have more content, more substance and more importance. From a position where Denmark was one of the initiators of the Baltic Sea Council and where we had a very special location in the Baltic countries, it is certainly the case that we do not currently have the same high position in the Baltic countries. On the other hand, I have to say that the comments that have been made are somewhat incomprehensible to me and, unfortunately, I cannot say it directly now, because it seems that we are no longer here, but at least there were the comments which were made by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Holger K. Nielsen and Mr. Martin Lidegaard said we needed a Baltic strategy. I think that what we have seen has just been that we have used the Danish Presidency of the Nordic-Baltian Ministerial Cooperation to put some relevant questions about energy cooperation and political cooperation on the agenda. And in the situation where, in one of the Baltic countries, namely Estonia, one of their border officers, Kohver, was illegally kidnapped from Estonian soil and taken into Russia and illegally convicted as a spy in Russia, Denmark was one of the leading countries to put international pressure on Russia to get him released again, and we have subsequently received great recognition of Estonia for the efforts that Denmark has made specifically in this matter. So I do not understand the thoughts or the comments that have been about the fact that there was a lack of a Baltic profile. But the demand has not been enough to hear the answer. In relation to the Arctic, there have been several who have just said that it is the case that we look back a little on what has happened and that we lack something that points forward. I just want to say, and it's a quote, that the statement is intended to inform about the progress of the specific work in the Arctic. And now this could be a quote from the statement No. 3 in 2015, but it was actually a quote from statement no. 3 in 2014, by Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who has been copied again in the statement here in 2015. So the report is more retrospect and goes on to see what concrete initiatives have been taken. Then it is true, as some are calling for, that we need a strategy forward-looking. It is the case that the Arctic strategy that Denmark has is from 2011 to 2020, and that is a long period of time. That is why I understand that there is sometimes a need to stop immediately, and this is actually happening this year. For there is now a mid-term review, where we are looking at what initiatives we need to adjust, what we need to get more focus on, and where it may be that time has run from some of the priorities that we had. The Arctic is a particularly important area for Denmark and for the Danish Kingdom. The Kingdom is an Arctic coastal state with a great influence on development and also with great interests. The Kingdom Community works in my optics closely together on the Arctic, because it is when we stand together and when we speak with one voice that we stand strongest. As a foreign policy player and as a kingdom, we can help to focus globally on the Arctic, and we do so in the many political forums where the Arctic is being discussed. For what is really interesting now is that the Arctic is being discussed in so many different forums: in the Nordic Council, the Arctic Council, the United Nations and the European Union. There is a great deal of focus on the Arctic, and this also means that we need to work together to create the optimal framework for development in the region. It is a question of breaking down barriers, and it is a question of creating a framework, and that is also a little in relation to what was requested by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Carsten Bach, what needs to be done to create jobs. There I would just like to refer to pages 11 and 12 of the statement, which specifically envisages taking investment initiatives and ensuring that there is cooperation, for example. between VisitDenmark and Visit Greenland. The question of making trade is, of course, a question that they have taken home as an independent task, but where they have, and I have had a discussion with my colleague Vittus Quijaukitsoq about the possibility of using the Danish embassies all over the world to make Greenlandic trade promotions, because the Embassy of the Kingdom is the embassy of the whole kingdom. In relation to creating a good development in the Arctic, it is important that the Arctic remains a low-voltage area. There has also been some of the points raised by several speakers: what can we do to ensure that the way forward that has been chosen in connection with the continental shelf, that is, the Ilulissat Declaration, is maintained? And that is precisely why I have chosen to say: let us now ensure that we have an open dialogue with Russia too. Because they must be kept to the agreements they have entered into. They must be maintained that they must have a positive role to play in the Arctic. They must be kept firm that we therefore have common tasks to solve, where we cannot do the job well enough if Russia is not present too, and that is why I have opened up to work with Russia, and that was something that was welcomed at the meeting between the Nordic and Baltic countries here in Copenhagen in September. Now it is the United States that holds the presidency of the Arctic Council, and we are pleased about that, because we are working closely with the US Presidency. Among other things: Denmark and Norway are co-chairs of a new task force on telecommunications, including satellites, and we play an active role in maritime rescue and crisis management in connection with oil spills. And under President Obama, there has been a great focus on climate change as a prelude to the COP 21 negotiations in Paris. We have also focused on education and research. In recent years, the focus has been on creating a better framework and increasing dialogue between the relevant research institutions in the Kingdom Community. Research in the Arctic areas is sometimes both expensive and difficult, which is why we must continue to strengthen cooperation across Danish institutions and within the Danish community in order to optimise the exploitation of the research results that are available. This applies both to research funding, to research logistics and to research infrastructure. It has already been said that we have submitted the scientific evidence of the fifth sub-mission concerning the continental shelf north of Greenland to the United Nations Commission on the Borders of the Continental Shelf, and that is a long title, but it is an even longer process. Because we're not the only ones. There have just been elections in Canada yesterday and there will be a new government. They must find out whether they will also submit their sub-mission to the UN, and then they must find out in the UN Committee how to assess the various submitted claims, which are, and this may take a very long time. We may end up being told that we have equal rights to the underground, and then we go back to political negotiations between the countries. That is also why it is essential that we maintain a dialogue with Russia, in order to ensure that we are ready to be able to engage in a political dialogue with them at a later stage. Finally, I would just like to highlight the polar code in relation to the IMO, that is, the regulatory framework for sailing in the polar regions. It will enter into force in 2017, and there is the signature of the declaration on future fishing in the High Sea part of the Arctic Ocean. These are examples of international cooperation that enable us to get along very well, precisely when we work together. In addition, I would like to make a few comments. Denmark plays an active part in the EU's development of a new Arctic strategy, and we do so in dialogue with and jointly with the other parts of the Kingdom. We have a special location here, because we are both an Arctic coastal state, we are in the Arctic Council and we are in the European Union. And that is why Denmark has a special role to play in the field. In relation to the question of whether we can do more to work together, I think we can always do more, that we can work together. In fact, I think that in the short time that the new government has been sitting, there have been a large number of initiatives, including visits to Greenland and joint trips with the Greenland Government and dialogue, which has made us start out very well in terms of working closely together. Now we look forward to starting our cooperation with the new Faroese Government. I cannot say that I have had a lot of idle times to have a dialogue with my Faroese colleague, but I look forward to the cooperation. I think there is a clear interest in actively participating in international debates, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220501	There are currently three short comments, no, there are four now. The first is sir. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220510	Thank you. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his detailed comments, particularly in the areas of industry, growth and job creation. I would like to ask something else, however, about joint Nordic embassy cooperation. Can the Secretary of State perhaps elaborate on the government's plans in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220527	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220529	I'd love to. As far as possible, we will try to bring the embassies together in order to save resources in practical terms and to increase the resources to work with the outward-looking, diplomatic, both commercial and such traditional diplomatic security policy. Therefore, there is a great interest both from Denmark, but also from other Nordic countries and indeed from other North European countries in working together with various forms of co-allocation of our embassies. We're open to it. If possible, we take the initiative to implement it, and more and more embassy structures are emerging where we are not alone, but we are together, primarily with Nordic countries, but in fact also with other EU countries, if possible and practically permissible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220617	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220619	Thank you. Are there any concrete plans available, possibly in the light of the government's financial bill with cuts in the External Action Service?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220630	There is an ongoing dialogue and interest in doing so, if necessary, when changing embassy structures. Nothing further has happened in the light of the government's financial bill that makes this process speed up. It's already under way. It is an interest that we have had because in this way we can slim down the administrative parts of the EEAS and, in turn, use the powers of the outgoing sections of the EEAS.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220704	The next brief remark is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220709	Thank you very much for your comments. As regards Denmark's strategy in the Arctic, I think it is very positive to hear that the mid-term review is under way. This is the first time I've heard it, so I thought it might be really interesting to know when we can expect it to be ready. The second is how to adapt the strategy in the future. It might also be interesting to hear some comments about it. Then the Minister mentions this by speaking with one voice. This is very important in international relations, and we have seen this in the case of sealskin sales and the EU ban on the Inuit exemption. What I hear from EU officials is that no funds have been set aside for these information activities, and I hope, of course, that the Foreign Minister, together with the Government of Greenland, Naalakkersuisut, will help to put pressure on the European Union in the future. The latter is about the Arctic Council. As I mentioned in the speech, this Arctic Economic Council has been set up. It will also be very interesting to see what developments are going to be there, also in the light of the American Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220829	I'll see if I can make it all. First of all, I must disappoint a little, because the mid-term review is not under way. It is now being set in motion so that we can involve all parties. I would also be very, very sorry if we had set it in motion and neither Greenland nor the Faroe Islands were aware that we had set it in motion. So it is now being set in motion because we would like to have an open process that many can be involved in and make their bid for what it can be changed to. This applies, of course, to both Greenland and the Faroe Islands representatives here in the Danish Parliament, but also to our partners in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I agree that there are not enough resources available for the European Union's information. This is simply an area in which we need to put pressure together. Unfortunately, I cannot promise a solution to this, but I can promise that we will continue to work to ensure that the EU allocates the necessary funds to ascertain the status of sealskin in Greenland. Then I hope that we can get something more concrete from the idea of making joint investments, creating room for manoeuvre, also for financing investments in Greenland, business investment and other things. We need to work together and we need to give what we can, from the Danish side, but also see what we can get out of a greater interest from the American Presidency of the Arctic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020220956	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221013	Thank you for that and thank you for that fine statement. Now the Minister says that a mid-term review of Denmark's Arctic strategy needs to be carried out, while at the same time giving impetus to the EU's Arctic strategy. Such evaluations and strategies can sometimes drown in too many good intentions. Everything is said to be positive about everything, and it ends up saying little. If there is no clear political focus, it can end up in nothing. Therefore, I would like to ask what the Minister's political focus will be in the evaluation of Denmark's Arctic strategy, and what focus will be on kicking in the EU's Arctic strategy, whether there are any preferences that the Minister has.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221101	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221105	I think that there must clearly be three areas of common priority. The first is the whole issue of climate change, both to curb climate change, but also to look at the climate adjustments that are needed and to see what opportunities it may offer, that there are climate change, because we have to face the fact that climate change is going to happen. Whatever we may hope to achieve in Paris at COP 21, we will not be able to curb emissions, so that there will not continue to be a climate impact that will cause climate change. This presents some challenges, and it offers some opportunities. The second is the whole question of nature and nature resources: how do you make an interaction where there is room for the way of life of the indigenous peoples, how do you ensure that what happens in climate and thus in nature does not impair the ways of the indigenous peoples to live their lives? And then last but not least, the whole question of industrial development. There are different conditions in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. At the moment, the Faroe Islands have had some very good seasons. Compared to all other business operations, it might be thought that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland could want a better development. I think that, in particular, what some of the representatives from Greenland have mentioned here, namely the issue of tourism development, it might be very good to focus on that, and I think that we should try to give priority to that, because I really think that is what Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, that if we just prioritize everything, then we don't give priority to anything. So we have to ask what it is we want to prioritise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221254	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221301	Thank you. In another context, the Minister mentioned that he was interested in finding a way of dialogue with Russia. This has also been mentioned by several people in their rapporteur's speech on the problems that exist. And it might be interesting to hear if it is something that can be supported in the Nordic context. I'm thinking, among other things. I believe that this has been suggested by some of the rapporteurs that there is a dialogue conference in South Jutland in about a month's time, when the two minorities and some Danish-German politicians have invited Ukrainians to visit the border area for two reasons: firstly, to show how we have drawn a limit by non-military means, and secondly, to show how, when the border is drawn, we can ensure that there is a peaceful and proper development by supporting minorities and by supporting their ability to have their own culture, their own language, their own libraries, schools, etc. I think this is a very exciting project that Denmark can host in this context, and which OSCE people have set in motion. Can we contribute more in this direction? So, what is the purpose of dialogue with Russia, and what do the Minister have in mind that Denmark, possibly the Nordic countries, can play an important role in such activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221429	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221432	[Sound emission]... two things, and I would say that my working day down here started 10 hours and 15 minutes ago, so if I'm not quite sharp on the Sønderborg invitation, it may be because we've talked about much else along the way. However, as far as I remember, it is actually the German delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly that has invited and with Danish participation and also cross-border participation, because it is precisely the border issue that is interesting. And I believe that this is an initiative that we in Denmark should support, because Russia and Ukraine must learn to live together with a common border. You cannot lift up any of the countries and place them elsewhere on the world map; however much some would like to do so, you cannot, and therefore they must learn to live together, and we must support it. With regard to the dialogue with Russia, I would like to warn against a tendency I have just heard to have such an excessive belief that there is Nordic consensus on everything. So, from the Danish side, we have a desire for dialogue with Russia • Sweden does not have a similar desire. Therefore, it is difficult to use Nordic co-operation for something when the Nordic countries do not agree. And maybe it's just a reminder that although we are very fond of Nordic co-operation and must continue to do so, there is also a limit to what we can achieve in Nordic co-operation, because the Nordic countries also have independent priorities, which means that we cannot always use Nordic co-operation and the search for consensus in practical everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221613	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221617	Well, I am aware of that, and I also heard the debate in the Bureau, where I commended the initiative that has been taken, where Russia, among other things, is. is now coming to a debate here in Iceland and where, as far as I can understand, some of the Foreign Ministers are also present at part of the debate or are they the prime ministers? I don't remember. But when I praised it, I was told that if there were any Russians, the others would emigrate and so on. etc. That's absolutely right. But that is why I would now like to call on the Danish Foreign Minister to continue an attempt to dialogue with the necessary critical attitude towards Putin and his crazy ideas and, at least, to promote the opportunity to look at: Where the hell can we meet, how can we preserve the ceasefire in Ukraine, how can it be developed into a real peace?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221710	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221713	One of the things you need to know when you go into the job I've taken on me is that you're going to talk to some of the biggest scoundrels in the world. And that is precisely what diplomacy is all about, that is to say, to talk peacefully with people with whom one also disagrees. Of course, we need to talk peacefully with those with whom we agree, but we need to use diplomacy to talk peacefully with people, we disagree not to bend our positions, not to hide them away, but to try through a conversation and dialogue to influence others to find a solution where, although we disagree, we find a way together that makes us avoid the hard conflicts. And that is why we start with dialogue and meetings at official level, we try to get meetings started at ministerial level too. It will not necessarily be the Foreign Ministers, because I cover many different areas of government in relation to the Russian Government, but at a level where we also have political holmgange about the views we have and where we have talked about political solutions to the common challenges we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221821	Two short remarks have still been made, and the first of them is Mr Beazley's report. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221830	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has not commented on my statement that the Faroe Islands will actually work for independent membership in the Nordic Council. I would like to hear a comment on that. I myself had a proposal that the Faroe Islands and Greenland should also have independent membership in the Arctic Council, but I am most interested in hearing the Minister's view that the foreign policy authority law that limits the Faroe Islands and Greenland's ability to work in international contexts and conduct negotiations is being amended. Today it is a straitjacket, and for example. Today it assumes that the Faroe Islands and Greenland must agree on a matter which we were not in the NEAF case about the fish stocks in the North Atlantic, and it can be a very big and serious matter for the Faroe Islands that there is a new development in the NEAF case, which we cannot influence as we need. What is the government's view of the foreign policy authority law and a change to it in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221936	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020221939	In relation to independent participation in the Nordic Council, the rapporteur should probably have asked the Minister for the Nordic Council. In relation to the Arctic Council, as Mrs Aleqa Hammond has also said, it is a cooperation between nations. And the kingdom is one nation. This also means that when we speak in, for example, the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the words in the Sometimes that voice is so pronounced with Greenlandic accent, sometimes with Faroese accent and sometimes with Danish accent. But it is with one voice and it is a coordinated statement. This does not mean that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are the only ones to bend off; it also means that Denmark has to bend off in relation to our positions in order to reach an agreement. However, as I said at the beginning of my speech this evening, I believe that we stand strongest when we stand together and speak with one voice. And, yes, sometimes that means buying out your own views in order to find a common solution, but these are terms for all three parts of the kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222045	Does the author wish to speak on the second brief point? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222052	It was once again the law of foreign policy authorization, and we are therefore still away in the fact that Greenland and the Faroe Islands have opposing interests, and when that happens, the Faroe Islands are not in a position to defend their own interests such as Greenland. in the dispute over the fish stocks. It is a straitjacket that the Faroe Islands cannot live with at all in the future, and I think Greenland will have the same view at some point in time. It would be a strong wish on the part of the Faroese that it should be removed or removed and that a much wider framework should be created for conducting its own negotiations. I still haven't heard the view on that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222130	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222133	Then I do not think the rapporteur listened properly, because what I said at the end of my speech about speaking with one voice because you are one nation is a question of whether you can have a change in the foreign policy delegation. A nation has one foreign policy voice and we find it jointly. No one dictates it to others, we find it together, because that is how it is when you are one nation, one kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222203	The last brief comment in this instance is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222210	It is true that the Foreign Minister says that the Arctic is also being discussed outside the Arctic Council, namely within the European Union, within the Danish Kingdom, within the Arctic Circle and much more. A lot of countries are designing their Arctic policy, and some already have one, which is quite extensive. Having said that, there are two areas in which they all show interest in the Arctic, and that is with regard to the new shipping routes and the non-living resources. The two things also do that, among other things. The EU is applying for observer status in the Arctic Council. As long as there is a consensus model in the Arctic Council, it does not appear that the EU will be on the observer list in the Arctic Council. The Minister points out that there are good dialogues and talks with the EU around the Arctic. What concrete things are being talked about in addition to the EU's own Arctic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222311	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222314	It is true that many countries are in the process of formulating their Arctic policy. Many countries have done so; even more countries are interested in joining. They are because there are very good and great opportunities opened up both in terms of shipping routes and also in terms of natural resources. And there is no doubt that many of the mining projects we see in Greenland, which are now at the preparatory stage, will eventually become really, really interesting. It may well be that raw material prices are low now, but in time it will be very interesting when the shortage of raw materials starts to push up prices again when the rise in the world economy starts to push up prices again. That is why, of course, we also need to find the clear lines of how this is done. In relation to what is going to be in the EU's Arctic policy, I would actually like to ask you in the light of the advanced times that we are trying to send a written answer to it, both in order to elaborate fully on what is really going on, but also because it is gradually getting a little late in the day to start a whole new topic around the European Union's line in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222430	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222434	Greenland has a very good relationship with the European Union, and we also have an excellent cooperation agreement with the European Union in the form of our OCTs status. In fact, we are the only OCT country that has a direct place in the EU's financial law, precisely because Greenland meets the requirements set by the EU. We have a very good fisheries cooperation agreement with the European Union, also in terms of making a special effort to promote training in the Greenlandic area. I would like to ask the Minister's position on possible new measures that the Kingdom can take together with the European Union in the Arctic area. Are there any suggestions for good ideas that the Minister would like to share with us?
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222521	I think it would be very interesting if the European Union could play a part in providing sufficient funding to make both the infrastructure investments in which Greenland has a great interest and on which I know there are many discussions in Greenland, but also in relation to business investment. I also believe that Greenland must make itself more ready or more attractive in relation to the investments that may be made, so that you get your sales work done and appear attractive in relation to attracting investment to Greenland. In relation to other areas, I believe that the whole question of education and the whole question of cooperation in the field of research are two of the areas in which the European Union will play a very active role and in which I personally can at least see that the European Union can play an active role.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222618	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more entries for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222630	I will be opening the debate in a moment, but, as the Minister has said, I would like to draw attention to the progress made, but we have had three statements together, which is why I have been a little tolerant of the seconds and minutes. I will make it a little more sharp in the next round and appeal to everyone to keep to the time, because we have both this point and one more point. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dam Kristensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020222711	There won't be any trouble with me. And then I can add that I am also speaking to Mr. Martin Lidegaard's name. Then there is, of course, the fact of being allowed to speak on behalf of the Radicals in a field of defence policy... it could of course tempt a weak soul, but in view of the time I have to control my desires. Nordic defence and emergency cooperation is based on a long tradition and is driven by our geographical and cultural proximity and openness and our common value base. It's not something I made up. That is the beginning of the statement, and I think that is actually very, very central. I think the statement is good in that way to understand that it tells us very clearly where we have a cooperation, where we have succeeded and where there is still something to be done. If you look at what is also stated in the statement, you will see that the Stoltenberg report back in 2009 has been an inspiration, and I do not think the source of inspiration has been exhausted, but it has already led to good debates and also concrete things. When you look at our own defence agreement running from 2013 to 2017, you see that it says here that we must take an active part in Nordic co-operation and that the value of the cooperation is important and that we have security awareness in our vicinity. Everyone knows that we have enough to do in the Baltic Sea, the Arctic and so on, as we were discussing. My conclusion to this is that when I look down on the concrete things that are, it is, among other things, that joint purchases have been made in many different areas, agreements have been made between different countries. For example: is it the Swedes who provide for the inspection of our Leopard tanks. The list is filled with a number of practical things. I think there is only one thing to say, as I see it, that it is full of common sense, and we should, in fact, have more of that. Therefore, I would just like to end by saying that I think we have the slightly unique situation when it comes to 2016, that Denmark holds the presidency of the Nordic parliamentarians, and our defence ministers hold the Presidency of the Nordic Defence Ministers. In fact, as I see it, this means that we have a unique opportunity to make progress in relation to Nordic co-operation. The entry angle is that it has to be rational, it has to be able to add value and make a difference, which this statement is actually made up of. That is why this is actually a unique opportunity for us to have a debate in a year's time on the basis of a statement which has become even more concrete in some purely practical areas. If the Secretary of Defense wants to take part in this work, I will look forward very much to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020223008	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, so we will continue in the course of our speeches, and that is Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020223022	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense for the statement. The Nordic countries have a special relationship with each other because of geography, culture and language, and cooperation in different spheres is therefore obvious, including in terms of defence and preparedness. Where this makes sense, cooperation must, of course, be achieved, and this makes sense in many places, as the report shows. When it comes to defence cooperation, it is only important to bear in mind that Nordic cooperation must not displace NATO cooperation. NATO cooperation has a particular value and importance for Denmark's security because it includes the Article 5 obligation, also called the Musketeer nest: One for all and all for one. Nordic co-operation does not. Nordic co-operation is therefore nice to do, while NATO is need to do. But as long as Nordic co-operation does not crowd out NATO cooperation, it is a fine idea and common sense to which we should certainly not say no. And I have also noted that it is precisely in the statement that it is essential that cooperation does not crowd out NATO cooperation. In the field of preparedness, there are even better opportunities for cooperation. The Danish People's Party looks very positively at Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness and would like to continue with the same direction in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020223150	Thank you. I do not see any too brief remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020223205	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for a good statement on Nordic defence cooperation. See, the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation aims to create a safer Nordic region, but also a Nordic region which contributes jointly to the management of conflicts and disasters internationally. Visions have been set for the development of cooperation, both within the Nordic Defence Cooperation and within the Nordic Emergency Cooperation. Military areas include Nordic material cooperation, exchange of students in military education, strengthening military cooperation in the field of air traffic surveillance, tactical air transport, focus on military and civilian working conditions, capacity building efforts in defence in East Africa, cooperation between Home Guard schools and the establishment of a secure communication system between the Nordic countries. In the field of emergency, there is a long tradition of Nordic cooperation. Here, working on a number of common development goals towards 2018 has filled a great deal, but also efforts to prevent, and not least the consequences of, major cross-border accidents have filled, and international tasks have also pressed on. Let me just mention Ebola in West Africa and the earthquake in Nepal. There has been a great deal of progress in Nordic co-operation, but we also welcome further cooperation in the years to come, and we look forward to that in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020223352	Thank you. There is no one to make a brief comment. The next speaker is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Does Enhedslisten want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020223423	Sorry to the President-in-Office, I completely forgot that we have become such a big party that we already have to take the floor now, but that is a positive thing. On the Nordic defence: I also thank you for the written statement. The Enhedslisten, together with the Left Socialist Green Group in the Nordic Council, has agreed to Nordic defence cooperation, but with the clear emphasis that it is used for peaceful purposes and that we do not give up sovereignty. It is crucial for Enhedslisten that it is the Danish Parliament that makes decisions when the Danish military is used in the world, also in the Nordic countries, in cooperation with other Nordic countries. These are important tasks that Nordic defence cooperation can undertake, not least in terms of monitoring and preparedness in the Arctic regions. We have been thinking about the North instead of NATO. And if we look a little further in the future, we would very much like Nordic co-operation to replace Denmark's membership of NATO, precisely because Nordic defence cooperation works on the basis of the strong governance of the Danish Parliament. We take the view that it is the Danish Parliament that will have to control it unless we have expressly and very specifically left the management to a supranational body. I wonder if everyone is aware that the proper supranational body, if we are talking about military operations in the world, is for us the United Nations; that is what I think and that efforts are limited to peacekeeping and peacekeeping efforts. There is also good reason to emphasise the good work done by the OSCE in this area. The OSCE has, of course, in recent years had a revival, not least around Ukraine, but also in other areas of conflict. Baltic cooperation has been created to promote cooperation with independent Baltic countries and with Russia. I mentioned it before, but I will repeat it. I am not a supporter of Putin, on the contrary, but I do not see any sense in responding to Russia's provocations with a military escalation via advanced bases in Poland and increased overflight by bombers. The Nordic countries should not step up and promote a new cold war. The Nordic countries have a tradition of being able to play a positive role in the prevention of conflicts, as well as in non-military means. The current handling of Russia has room for improvement. I am in line with our Foreign Minister in this area. We must strengthen dialogue with the Russians. We should do that wisely with cold brain and warm heart. If we do not seek dialogue with our opponents about threatening conflicts, we can help to step them up. And who else should we negotiate with if we are not to negotiate with our opponents? The Arctic presents many challenges. It is important that we focus on the environment and nature and on the demilitarisation of the Arctic. In our opinion, the Arctic must be nuclear-free. We must ensure this, and Nordic co-operation must help to ensure this in the cooperation forums that are possible. There is also an urgent need for a strong common response to the search and rescue work. In the coming years, we have to move money from fighter aircraft and other offensive military hardware to these emergency missions in all the Nordic countries. It will be a great task to convince all governments of it, perhaps also a great task to convince the Danish Government of it, even though it expresses a positive attitude towards the task itself. At the moment, we are not in a position to avert a shipping disaster or an environmental disaster in the Arctic. We don't have the equipment, and we don't have the crew to do it. It must be secured and it will be a huge task. As I said before, we have better opportunities than we have had for many years to develop and strengthen Nordic co-operation. In this area, we need to develop Nordic co-operation more than we have had for many years. So let's do it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020223844	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, so the next speaker is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020223857	Thank you. We discussed defence policy issues earlier today by sending out our contribution to the coalition, and it also gave the impression that there are different cooperations. Now we have had a number of statements here today about Nordic co-operation, and there is certainly reason to talk about this and praise it, but we must also be aware that not everything, as Mr. Christian Juhl may have been suggesting, may have taken place under that heading. The statement here is 12 pages, and it is actually a fine statement that gives a good look at what kind of cooperation traditions we have, what is actually going on in that context, and how we work together on different matters in different constellations with different countries. And when we discuss it here and it was not in the other statements, it is of course because defence and preparedness are not under the Nordic Council, but is a cooperation between countries. When you look down over the statement, you will see that it deals with issues such as the acquisition of material; defence education; secure communication between the Nordic countries; the veteran area; issues of updating each other through participation in international operations; the Home Guard, which probably has a special cooperative relationship in the Nordic countries, maybe also because we actually have a strong community of values in the Nordic countries; the preparedness, which can play a perhaps even very positive role in a cooperation; here the possibilities in the event of major disasters are also well described, and there can really be a strength to help across national borders. So there is good reason to expand and work on Nordic co-operation in a number of practical relationships. We note that Denmark must have the Presidency in 2016 about some of these collaborations. We are happy to take part in Denmark fulfilling the obligations of having such a responsibility to develop cooperation in the areas mentioned in this statement and which, fortunately, there is a good tradition of cultivating, but which can certainly be better exploited in cooperation in these areas mostly because, I would like to stress, I believe we have a community of values that is quite easy to build on in these cooperation relations. So I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which is now under consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020224151	I can say thank you to the rapporteur; there are no brief comments right now. The next speaker and rapporteur are Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020224209	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for a very hopeful and promising statement, I think. In the alternative, we do not really look at the Danish defence and preparedness as a national defence, we see it as part of a larger whole and a contribution we make internationally. Because we stand strongest when we stand strong internationally and are supported by others. So I will be very brief and say: all in all a hopeful and promising report. And then we look forward to seeing what you focus on in relation to the Arctic. This is a huge area, and I do not think anyone underestimates how violent it really is to get involved in the Arctic in one way or another. We will think that the preparedness needed to control parts of it is greater than anything you can almost imagine under Danish auspices. So there too it is important to stand strong Nordic. I would like to focus on investing in defence equipment at the Nordic level, so simply to create an overall framework for what is to be used, and then try to look at how we can work together to get what is needed so that we may also be even more ambitious than we can with the resources we have in the defence today. Maybe you can meet about it. But thank you for a good statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020224331	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The last rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Let me know if I missed anyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020224355	Thank you very much. Greenland does not have its own defence, which is why there is a huge responsibility for the defence of the Kingdom Community in ensuring security throughout the Kingdom community. The government maintains a line that is about a peaceful and secure Arctic, and we from Inuit Ataqatigiits are very happy about that. This is in line with the intentions of the Stoltenberg report and the Illulissat Declaration. As in the case of Nordic co-operation, the aim must be to create a robust society capable of preventing and dealing with accidents and disasters. We should therefore rethink the defence's task solution, and the Greenlandic population should be given more thought in terms of contributing to the defence's task solution in Greenland. A unified Landsting, Inatsisartut, supports the establishment of voluntary preparedness. The establishment of voluntary preparedness could be based on experience from the Icelandic ICE-SAR, where voluntary preparedness could provide observation, measurement and rescue at sea and on land. We know that today there is one SAR incident per year. the third day on average in Greenland, and this underlines that there are many tasks that are already being solved with the help of random volunteers. Many in Greenland have boat and equipment that is obvious in relation to rescue situations, like the residents of e.g. Disko Bay of Illulissat knows the nature, weather conditions and geography of Disko Bay. These are experiences that could be worth taking advantage of, especially in areas with many tourists. With an organised voluntary response, we will be able to achieve better results than we do today, when it is with random volunteers. At the moment, you are working at the largest Arctic sport event, Arctic Winter Games, where you are looking for 1,500 volunteers, and with 3,500 participants from all over the Arctic you need a huge effort in terms of being able to carry out the task. We in Greenland are used to lifting in groups and helping each other. Together one could build on the experiences of Arctic Winter Games in terms of building a multi-generation voluntary culture, as we see in Iceland, for example. I am pleased that the previous government has intensified its efforts to recruit young Greenlanders. The defence has made a very successful road show, where you have been around several places in Greenland, and I think that is very positive, and I hope you will build on that, just as I would like to see serious consideration being given to establishing a military basic education in Greenland. I am sure that there are experiences both in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Iceland in relation to a readiness in the Nordic countries and the Arctic experience, which I think we should benefit from in Greenland, very much in close cooperation with the other Nordic countries. The increasing interest in shipping routes via the Northwest Passage from e.g. The Chinese side requires new reflection on how to secure and protect our territories. Increased cruise services in connection with tourism and activities resulting from increased activities in the raw materials industry will put additional pressure on SAR preparedness in the coming years. The need to be able to use fighter aircraft in the Arctic in relation to sovereignty enforcement makes demands on fighter aircraft that can operate in the Arctic, it demands that we have the adequate airport lanes and that we have the opportunity, for example, to do so. That air tanks. Experiences from the recent Arctic Response, which was a training exercise across various public authorities, gave Arctic Command, Greenland Police and a wide range of public authorities opportunities to train defence tasks in Arctic regions. There is a need to intensify this training and also to ensure that there is the right equipment. This and many other new trends must be addressed in relation to the strategic planning of defence tasks. An increase in activities in the field of tourism, research and exploration means that there is already a need to review whether sufficient resources have been allocated to the defence's forward-looking task solution in Greenland. I look forward to a new agreement on defence. It will no doubt also be negotiations which concern the presence of defence in the Arctic region, including Greenland, which is why I also expect Greenlandic parties represented in the Folketing to be invited to those negotiations. I also look forward to the government presenting the new analysis of defence tasks in the Arctic here at the turn of the year and for the subsequent political debate. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020224910	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And the next speaker is the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020224923	Thank you for that and thank you for your comments, including the brief comments that have been made on this last statement. After all, this is the first time that the report has taken account of the emergency situation, and I am quite happy with the developments we have seen in the last year, both in the area of defence cooperation and in the field of emergency response. These are important areas, and these are areas where we can develop further where we can agree. It is not the case that all the initiatives undertaken under the NORDEFCO framework will be the major successes. Nor is it the case in other international cooperation; there are projects that offer less prospects of success and then they are stopped, and so must it be. What is characteristic, however, is that Nordic co-operation is in a positive development overall. But let it be said straight away: there are also areas where the Nordic countries are too different, both in large and small. Not everything can be accomplished. This applies both in the field of defence and in the field of emergency response. As you know, we five countries have developed our defence and security policy somewhat differently, for example. with different affiliations with both NATO and the European Union. However, in the broad picture, we are all moving towards closer cooperation, and common challenges in the Nordic region simply make cooperation closer, and I am thinking, of course, in particular of Russia's recent actions and statements. As mentioned earlier, there is no formalised cooperation within the Nordic Council, if I should just touch on the general cooperation with the Nordic Council, either in the field of defence or emergency. However, a good tradition has been built for the current NORDEFCO Presidency this year to be Sweden's defence statement on Nordic defence cooperation at the Nordic Council's annual session, and this will also happen here next week in Reykjavik. When looking at regional defence cooperation elsewhere, there is no doubt that NORDEFCO cooperation is something of a regional role model for other countries in Europe. For example, many countries outside the Nordic countries bite. notice that we can cooperate closely, despite the fact that we have very different security policy links with the European Union and NATO, and we cooperate in a pragmatic and non-bureaucratic way without having large and expensive superstructures and secretariats. As the report shows, the value of Nordic co-operation is particularly emphasized by the development of security policy in our neighbourhood. The common challenges have shown that the Nordic countries are able to move closer together to find common solutions and send common political messages, for example. in relation to the security situation in the neighbourhood, the Baltic Sea Council and the Baltic States. And, as Mrs Krarup also mentioned, it is important to say straight away that Denmark's security depends first and foremost on our NATO membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225313	I see no brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Defence. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225326	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225351	I can tell you that the Socialists can, of course, support the proposal. I have to say from the Radical Left that so can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225359	Thank you. You don't have to run, even if it's late. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, and we are happy to wait. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225410	I can repeat the previous speech: the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225417	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225431	Thank you, President. Since the rapporteur of the Left was unable to be present in the Chamber, I have promised to read Mr. Søren Gade's speech as rapporteur. The purpose of the proposal is to adapt the question time based on the fact that the party composition after the parliamentary elections is now different. We now have eight opposition parties, which is why we need to reduce speaking time during Question Time. A slight adjustment of speaking time is therefore proposed during the second round of the largest party. This adjustment will mean that the duration of the Question Time will be 75 minutes if all speaking time is fully filled. It is also clear from the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament that the hour of questioning with the Prime Minister may not be longer than one hour, and this provision is proposed to be repealed. In the Left, we believe that the considerations that have been made about Question Time with the Prime Minister are quite reasonable, and that is why we naturally support the motion for a resolution. We also agree with the proposal to carry out an evaluation of the Question Time at the end of the parliamentary year, so that we stick to the objective of a lively and topical debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225545	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do I see a rapporteur for the Enhedslisten? I do. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225550	I hope not to be too surprised to say that we can certainly support the proposal as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225556	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225604	It is actually quite interesting that we are standing here and discussing this proposal at 5 minutes to 11 in the evening, where the discussion about this proposal has actually been that there should be life in the Parliament, you should have fun, it should be exciting and so on, and it should really move in this Chamber. One might then say that there are limits to how high it has come up to fly, so perhaps we should have discussed it at a time of the day when we are more fresh. It is also fantastic that we are discussing whether it may take a bell hour more or less. Apparently this day has taken many of them. There could have been a lot of questions for the PM, but okay. Regardless of that, we support the changes, although we hope that there will be more answers in the future to the questions that are being asked, given that it is a question hour, but it may be that a new Prime Minister changes that. Let's hope so. We'll keep an eye on whether that happens. Otherwise, I think we should discuss this one day when we are more awake. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225706	Thank you to the rapporteur. Did I see a request for a brief comment from the Danish People's Party? Okay, I didn't. The next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225720	Thank you. It's gonna be very short. On behalf of our rapporteur, who could not be here, I must say that we support the proposal, and on behalf of the SF rapporteur I shall say the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225729	Thank you. I have another rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225736	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that we believe that every party should have the same speaking time, and there is, after all, a step in the right direction, as the speaking time of the largest party is slightly shortened. So we generally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225753	Thank you. I do not see any more rapporteurs, nor do I see anyone with brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. We need to clarify whether it is desirable for the committee to be dealt with when everyone was so positive or whether it can go directly to the second reading. I can see that nods are nodded so it can go straight to second treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151020225837	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 21 October 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
