ParlaMint-DK_20151103130018	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130032	Today we are going to embark on something that I think we have all looked forward to very much, namely a whole new round of Question Time with the Prime Minister. I hope that during Question Time we can have a lively debate on general issues of principle with current political questions and answers. First of all, I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement of up to five minutes. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130058	Thank you. It is now 4 months since government and my government were formed to be given the task of leading Denmark as well. We have done so, and we have done so from the first day with the approach of trying to communicate broad cooperation. That is why I would like to open the first Question Time of the year, which I have been looking forward to, by expressing my satisfaction that it has been very successful. Not only have we established, I think, a good and solid cooperation with our parliamentary basis, but also with the parties of the Folketing, incidentally. During the months that have passed, and there have even been summer holidays, we have reached 15 good and broad agreements. Together with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, we have among other things. Agreement on immediate action in the field of asylum, including a new integration grant. Together with the same three parties and the Socialists, we have agreed to tighten up the rules in order to obtain Danish citizenship. Together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, we have reached an agreement on a safer daily allowance system which has brought peace to the daily allowance. Together with the Danish People's Party, the Social Democrats and Radicals, we have reached agreement on among others. the economy of municipalities and regions and the future tax conditions for electric and hydrogen vehicles. And together with the SF, the Alternative, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives, we have reinstated the housing job scheme, as we promised before the elections. And together with all parties in the Danish Parliament, i.e. also Enhedslisten, we have concluded an agreement on the distribution of the research reserve in 2016. That is why I think it can be said in all silence that, although there is often a picture that politics is driven by conflicts and disagreements, there are, in fact, many things that bind things together. At any rate, I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for the fact that we have achieved so much in such a relatively short period of time, which brings Denmark in the right direction, also in a solid way, and I hope that the constructive spirit will also continue into the financial law negotiations which are beginning in the coming days and, at the very least, set the line for our cooperation in the future. Look, today is November 3rd. This means that there is exactly one month for the Danes to go to a referendum, where voters are given the opportunity to transform the Danish legal reservation into an opt-in system, such as for example. The British, too, have it. We know what happens if we vote yes. Then Denmark can decide for itself which parts of EU cooperation we want to participate in. Denmark can then remain a full member of the European police cooperation Europol, and we can also participate in other aspects of cooperation, including that of Europol. on combating terrorism, child abduction, paedophilia rings and others. That is the security we will have if we vote yes. If we vote 'no', we will go out of Europol and there will be insecurity, because then it will be entirely up to the other Member States, the Commission and the European Parliament to decide whether or not we can participate and, if so, under what conditions. So the choice is actually relatively simple. Do we want Denmark to decide for itself, or do we prefer others to do it for us? I think, of course, together with a very broad majority in the Folketing, that we must decide for ourselves, and I would like to stress once again that the vote on 3 December is not about asylum and immigration. At the opening of Parliament I made the promise, the guarantee, that if it were to come there in the distant future, a separate referendum will be held, and that is a guarantee that has been repeated and accepted by other parties to the agreement and which is now being written into the comments on the draft law on which the referendum was based on 3 December, just as we know from the national compromise, that is to say, the compromise that was created back in 1992 and which all governments, as you know, have respected ever since. With that, I look forward to Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130531	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. I'm going right here, since it's the first question hour, outline the rules. In the first round, both the questioner and the Prime Minister have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. In the second round of the largest party, the questioner and Prime Minister once again have up to 2 minutes of speaking time each, but the two subsequent questions and answers may only last 1⁄2 minutes here. Here you go to the first party leader, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130611	Thank you. This is the first time that the Prime Minister and I have come face to face in this Chamber. It's gonna be okay. At least I'm looking forward to it. After all, we have an incredibly short speaking time, and that is why I will use my energy and my Question Time to what is most important for the Socialists, namely the direction in which we are drawing Denmark. After all, politics is basically about what kind of society we dream about what kind of society we work for. So very briefly and hopefully also to the Prime Minister: with the spending ceilings, the government will force the municipalities to save on welfare. These are savings in crèches, kindergartens, the elderly and our schools. Can the Prime Minister confirm that the government is planning to implement municipal savings of 7 billion. kr. in 2019, if you compare with the year 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130725	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130728	I can confirm that we are operating with a re-priority contribution, which means that the municipalities must free up the equivalent of 1%. a year. Then it will be the case, in relation to the expenditure ceilings, that what is released there is placed under the state expenditure ceiling, and then you will decide, as the years pass, how that money is to be released. It therefore creates the possibility that some of the money can be re-priorityd to the welfare of the municipalities, other money can be re-priorityd to the welfare of the regions, and others can be released for consumption in the state and some of the money could in principle also be converted into the welfare of the citizens by means of tax cuts. Therefore, it is not possible to say with certainty what public spending is available to municipalities in 2019. In fact, it is not even possible to say exactly what room there is in 2016, because the government has put forward a financial bill in which we have a re-priority contribution, returns a very large part of it to the municipalities, except for 0.5 billion. kr., and now we are discussing with the Danish Parliament's political parties what the Finance Act should look like. After all, I cannot stand here today and give any guarantee that there will not end up with a financial agreement where the municipalities will be given additional resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130855	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130857	Yeah, yeah. But if we try to deal with what I asked the Prime Minister, I think it is interesting to listen, for example, to Martin Damm, Mayor of the Left, President of the KL. When he gets cut off the savings just on the first 2.5 billion. , he says, and I quote: "It is illusory to think that you can just go and fetch 2.5 billion. kr. without it affecting anything. The citizens will feel that right away. For example, it goes beyond kindergartens, schools, the disability area. Wouldn't the Prime Minister like to comment on that quote from the Chairman of the KL?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130948	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103130950	I'd love to, but I haven't been asked that until now. I really want to try to answer what I am asked about, and I did so in the first question, which was whether I could confirm how much less there is to be a municipality for in 2019. The answer to that question is that you cannot say that until you get there and adopt the Financial Act for 2019. As far as next year is concerned, we have agreed with the municipalities a re-priority contribution of 2.4 billion. kr. kr. It has also been agreed that 1.9 billion. kr. are returned to the municipalities, which means that there is a net net net of 0.5 billion. kr. less, at least until now we have entered into the financial law negotiations, which I do not know exactly where it ends. It is clear that it would then be easier to be a municipality if there were no re-priority contribution; that goes without saying. It would also be easier to be a minister, both in this government and in all previous governments, if the state did not have a similar system in which ministers were responsible for delivering 2%, with few exceptions. a year. But we now think it is wise that we should, so to speak, constantly stir the pot in order to free some money that can be invested, and I am not standing here ruling out the possibility that part of what is released can be reinvested in welfare, including in the welfare of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131104	Yes, please. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131108	No, but it is also a little strange if we, as Prime Minister, do not want to guarantee all of us in terms of wanting to give priority to the welfare society or not. Because you can stand and talk about the fact that you want to stir the pot, and at least you can put a lot of words about this discussion. That is just not what is interesting for the child who goes to the crèche in one of the municipalities of the country, or for the elderly who need care for the elderly, it is, of course, whether there is enough money or not. Can we maintain a strong welfare society or not? I have said very clearly that 7 billion. The Social Democrats do not add up the crucial mandates, and I understand that the same applies to a number of other parties. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm, at the end of the first round, that if so much money is to be saved in the country's municipalities, the mandates must be taken from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131203	Thank you. And then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131206	In other words, the expenditure ceilings must be adopted here in the Folketing, and there must be 90 mandates behind this. That's the way it is. After all, it is not so long ago that there have been parliamentary elections, so it is not so long ago, and I would certainly be a little too long, if I were chairman of the Social Democratic Party, I am not, of course, either, but I would have been a little longer if I were and had been part of a government which has conducted a policy in which the service framework for the municipalities did not exactly grow and where there are fewer municipal employees when they left the government offices than when they entered them, i.e., I think there are 3 000 fewer educators. So the thing about just standing around and making consumption equal to quality, I'd be the one to do it. That is certainly not our approach to it. We want to be vigilant about a strong welfare society, but we also know that if we are to be able to do so and thus also find resources that can be given extra priority to health when it is pushing or which areas are now pushing, then we must all deliver for a short period of time as well. And that is basically what we are asking the municipalities for, and then we are constantly taking a stand on when we make municipal economic agreements, and when we make financial agreements, how the money, including the released money from the re-priority contribution, should be spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131319	Thank you. Then it is again Mrs Mette Frederiksen in the second round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131325	Well, I certainly don't think you should equate the number of crowns to the ear and the quality alone. But on the other hand, the Prime Minister must also acknowledge that if you are to run a good kindergarten, it costs some money. And if we want proper care for the elderly, to which we will send everyone with open eyes, including our own parents and grandparents, then it costs some money. What I really think is the biggest problem in this discussion is that we are dealing with a government that makes it a question of technology. It is a re-prioritisation contribution; you can just change that if you want it; it is about spending ceilings. Everything becomes a question of technology. But that is not what the welfare society is, because it is basically about the fact that when you are through an economic crisis and there is little money to do well, that is not where you can make the big welfare investments, but you can keep your hand under the welfare society. But if, unlike just a few years ago, we are in a situation in which we have actually been able to consider going down the path of using the modest scope for tax relief when, as Prime Minister, as government, as Parliament, we have the opportunity to spend money on what we share. To be honest, I don't think everything in our welfare community is perfect. I think that the old man who has worked hard and worked his whole life must have proper care for the elderly and that the children who grow up in our society must have the very best conditions for grasping the stars of their lives. I believe that this is required, not technology, but a real political will to give priority to what we share, namely the welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131512	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131513	Well, I agree with a hundred percent, and that's also why we don't have a technical approach to it. Well, the technical approach is, of course, the one that Mrs Mette Frederiksen advocates. It's the one where we just leave things as they always have been. And if you have first received a grant, you also have the grant next year, and then it is projected with the price and wage developments, and that's just how business as usual runs. To take ownership and make policy is to say: we have to have what we might call a development pressure on all parts of the public sector, so that we can constantly think about whether we can make it smarter everywhere in the public sector. I agree that everything is not perfect. I can also think of situations where sick leave is unnecessarily high, where staff fluctuations are unnecessarily large, where too much is spent on bureaucracy and too little on core tasks. And that's why we need to have this pressure so that everywhere you do everything you can to get up. Then the political debate will have to be on how to use what we see freeing there, the billions we release. We can probably have a big discussion about that. Are they for health? Should they be used for what I like, among other things. Does it seem that people with small incomes in Denmark should be allowed to keep a little more of their wage income themselves, so the commitment, can you say, the incentive to work got a little bigger? That is where the political debate should lie. But to have a major ideological discussion about the fact that the municipalities must deliver half of what we have been working on in the state since the 1980s as the standard, I do not quite understand, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131646	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131648	However, I think that when it is a bit difficult to understand, it may be that it is because it is only a fledgling politician who will claim that negative growth is established to create development. Everyone else can see that the two words are not necessarily in any way connected. Therefore, a strong appeal on my part: if you want to cut back on welfare, if you choose as a government, and you have to understand that you do not give priority to our common welfare society, then at least stand by it. For anyone who tends to wrap everything up in words that have no consistency with reality, I do not think that really benefits the political discussion in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131733	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131736	I don't know if I'm particularly busy, so I don't think I am. At any rate, I am not able to conclude as Mrs Mette Frederiksen does, namely that the fact that we are operating with a change of priority contribution automatically leads to minus growth. You can't say anything about that. The fact that we operate with a re-priority contribution both in the state and in the municipalities ensures that we create the opportunity, in the end, for the Folketing to have something to make policy for, an annual scope to make policy for. That policy may then be a policy of arming certain parts of the public sector. That's one of them. That is why my government is proposing to spend 0.5 billion. kr. more on health care than the government of which Mrs Mette Frederiksen was a member had planned for us to do in 2016. This is, of course, a concrete example of how we would like to spend more money on public spending than the government from which we took over responsibility would.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131827	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131829	But it's a matter of minus growth. It says in black and white in the government's own publication, in the government's own material, that the money for the municipalities falls and falls. And what may make it a little too easy for the government is that you can just hide behind the concept of the municipality, because in the Prime Minister's eagerness to provide money so that you can make policy yourself, there will be less money for the educator to do educational work, then there will be less money for the school teacher to be able to train the next generation and maybe worst of all, then there will be less money for those who have to look after those who are most in need of the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131910	Thank you. And the Prime Minister for the last reply in 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103131913	I believe that it is now Mrs Mette Frederiksen who is very, very determined to use the budgetary ceilings in a rather creative way. Because what we are doing is exactly like the old government, namely that we are putting in some budgetary ceilings, and the room for manoeuvre which is not a prior priority is left under the discretion of the state. That's what they used to do before. That is also why the former Minister of Finance had to answer questions about the zero growth of the municipalities at times. There was no such thing, I think it almost ended up being less growth measured on the service framework when there was the last government. But in reality, it is technology. The policy is that we decide year by year what the released amount is to be spent on, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen must judge us there as the days, weeks, months and years pass.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132001	Thank you. The next one is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132006	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction. I have also looked forward to these questions which we are now getting started, and I also heard the Prime Minister pressurising the word Question Time. It must be that the Prime Minister has an ambition to provide answers to the questions as well, and I think that is a major improvement which has come out of the elections on 18 June, so I look forward to that, of course. In his introduction, the Prime Minister mentioned some of what I would certainly like to discuss with the Prime Minister, namely the referendum of 3 December. After all, it is only a month from now that the Danes will have to take a position on something that is very, very important, and if we do not agree on so much other 'yes' and 'no' in between, we will probably agree that it is a very important vote on 3 December and that it is important that the Danes engage in it. I must also say that I believe that the scare campaign has already started. In other words, when the Prime Minister spends part of his speaking time today saying that Denmark cannot remain in Europol with a 'no' vote, that is contrary to the facts, because that is possible. After all, it is a question of whether we choose to use those options. But of course we will have a lot of political debate on this from now on and looking forward to 3 December, and I look forward to that very much. What I would like answers to today during Question Time is the question of the purely legal basis on which we have the referendum. I think it is useful for us to have an agreement on this before embarking on the further political struggle among the Danes. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that what is being asked of the Danes on 3 December, legally, under the Constitution, is to abolish all sovereignty in the legal field? In other words, according to the terms of the constitution that sovereignty can be surrendered either by a five-sixth majority or by a referendum, the Danes are asked, by a yes, to abolish the whole of sovereignty in the legal field, and then it is a question of whether the majority of the Folketing will then take advantage of that right or not. We may have a political discussion on this, but the legal basis is that if we vote yes, the whole of the sovereignty in the legal field will be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132212	Thank you. Then it's the PM for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132215	There is no reason to have an argument about something that is objectively verifiable. It is quite true that what has been proposed for us to do on 3 December is not to remove the reservation of law, but to turn it into an opt-in system. This means that the Danish Parliament, with the obligations which the Danish Parliament had to impose on itself, will have to come back to that in a few moments, a completely exclusive opportunity, just as the British have, and just as the Irish do, to choose the parts of EU cooperation that we think make sense. That's how it is. For that very reason, it has also been so close to my heart to say that we will not create a situation in which a majority in Parliament can choose to use this exclusive option to choose from the buffet to choose asylum and refugee cooperation. This can only happen if there has been a prior referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132313	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132315	I think I understood the answer, but I would like the Prime Minister to take a very simple view of the fact that it is clear from the provisions of the Constitution on the surrender of sovereignty that sovereignty can be surrendered either by the fact that there are five sixths of the majority in this Parliament for it, or by the fact that the people say yes in a referendum, and what the Danes are then asked to do on 3 December under the provisions of the Constitution is to abolish all sovereignty in the legal field. So what is the significance of it after 3 December, if it has become a 'yes', is that, according to the provisions of the Constitution, there will no longer be either five sixths of a majority here in the Folketing or a referendum, but then it will be legally up to the majority of the Folketing to judge on a case-by-case basis whether or not to transfer the provision to Brussels, and this can be done by a general majority in legal terms. It may well be that you do not want to, but is it not true that it will be possible to do so legally after a yes on 3 December by a general majority in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132421	Thank you, and this is the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132422	No, we will not be able to do so, because the legislative proposal currently under consideration will, before it is adopted, be supplemented by legislative observations which very clearly state that the very, very large majority behind a request for a yes on 3 December commit themselves to the idea that if you should have the idea of what I would otherwise be opposed to opting for the area of asylum and refugees, then it will require a prior referendum. And that's why it's no use even if you try to wrap politics into law... that a picture is created that if people vote yes on 3 December, it's gonna be such a complete coincidence what's gonna happen. It's not gonna be a coincidence. It is quite clear what 22 pieces of legislation we have to endorse, and they are the ones about Europol, about child pornography, about paedophile rings and about ensuring that wives who have been subjected to violence can take their stand on their violent husbands abroad, and that sort of thing. In fact, I have the merit of hearing some of the parties who recommend a 'no' vote against some of the things we want to choose. Because it's very, very clear. It is also clear that we do not want to enter the area of asylum and refugees, and if the situation should arise sometime in the future, then it will require a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132538	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132539	I must say that it was a good thing that I had put a follow-up question here, because now I think that the Prime Minister moved a little on thin ice, that is, if the Prime Minister thinks that what is written into the legislative notes means that sovereignty in the legal field has not been abolished according to the provisions of the Constitution, if you vote yes on 3 December. What the Prime Minister is dealing with is a purely political statement. So, it is a political statement in which the Prime Minister says, and has also said in the past, in this Chamber, that he will give a guarantee until the sun burns out, I think he said, and whether it is 4.5 or 6 billion. years, we can then take a discussion on. And I also saw that the Left's own EU rapporteur thought it was a guarantee that the Prime Minister could issue as long as he himself sat as Prime Minister or as President of the Left, but then no longer. What we are out in now is that it is a political debate in which we try to convince the Danes that they can take it easy. However, the matter is purely legal in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, that the Danes should then be asked to abolish all sovereignty in the legal field. The rest is a discussion about whether you are confident that a political majority in this House will administer the right to the things that the Prime Minister, among other things, wants. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132648	Thank you, and then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132650	With all due respect, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who makes law into politics, and it's probably hard to separate those things. What has to be said in silence is that the draft law which is to be adopted here in the Danish Parliament as a prerequisite for a referendum on 3 December contains comments that very clearly say something about the basis on which the Danes vote. And the basis on which the Danes vote is a basis which means that we cannot opt for refugee and alien acts in Europe other than those we know today and in which we are already in without a prior referendum. Quite frankly, I think it is a little too bad to stand here and create a picture that one cannot trust. Why should one not be able to rely on it? This is an integral part of the basis of the legislative proposal which Parliament is expected to adopt, just as when we had the votes left after the national compromise with the four exceptions, which have thus stood there until now and which we continue to respect. After all, no one can imagine that at any time there will be a majority in the Folketing who will attack the four exceptions back from 1992 without having asked the Danes first. And in the same way one can of course rely on the guarantee which has been given and which is now written into the observations of the law, also of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132813	Thank you. The next is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103132822	Thank you. I would like to follow up the debate that the Socialist President also raised, namely the question of the huge cuts which the government is proposing for the Folketing to make to the municipalities. After all, the government has put forward two legislative proposals with very far-reaching consequences: over the next few years it is 7 billion. kr. that must be cut out in the municipalities, and so it cannot be implemented without serious, noticeable consequences in our nurseries, our kindergartens, our elderly care and our primary schools, as the mayors of the Left have also said. Just as it will undoubtedly cost thousands of jobs, i.e. layoffs of SOSUs, pedagogues and the abandonment of a lot of jobs around our municipalities. After all, this was a matter that we discussed quite a lot in the Parliamentary Chamber in connection with the financial law debate, and we were several people who asked the Danish People's Party whether they would vote for these cuts. Because when you have heard what the Danish People's Party said in the election campaign, it seems a little strange that they almost as the first go in and add votes to cuts in the municipalities for 7 billion. kr. And it was very difficult to get an answer to. However, as far as one could understand the Danish People's Party, they thought that it was also just a technique, and that the money could, by the way, just be brought back to welfare. At the same time, we have heard Members of Parliament from the Left say: 'Oh, we believe that part of this 7 billion.' kr., which is to be cut at our schools, kindergartens and nursing homes, could go to some new tax discounts. And when you read the government basis, you can see that, among other things. are top tax reliefs the government would like to give. Now I actually heard the Prime Minister say here today that he cannot guarantee that the cuts made by the Prime Minister and the government in our municipalities will be brought back to welfare Thank you!). On the contrary, it may well be that the money goes for tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133039	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133042	I shall now come a little short, because I would like to respect the question time given to the Prime Minister. But there wasn't really any question. But I can easily think of something to say It should not depend on it So perhaps I should just say a little about the reason why we are doing what we are doing. The reason we're doing what we're doing is because when we took over this responsibility and looked in the box, we could see it was relatively empty. It was empty in that next year we would move beyond what is the limit of what a structural deficit we must have and which it is sensible to have if we want to pursue a healthy economy. We were challenged by the fact that some promises and bills had been made for which no funding had been found, and let me take the example of the electric cars. After all, everyone got the feeling that now there was tax exemption for electric cars in 2016, it was just not funded. We have had to take this seriously, and that is why we have had to tighten up with 3 billion in the first place. kr. to get to the edge of EU rules at all and with a further 2 billion. kr. to get off the edge a little bit, 'cause we don't want to go sniffing the edge. That is the situation: there is less money than was thought and hoped. At the same time, in this situation, we want to have the opportunity to conduct policy, as I discussed with Mrs Frederiksen, that is to say, to give priority to health and other areas. And that is only possible if we challenge the systems, whether municipal, regional or state, to make some contributions. That's how it's supposed to be. That is why it is also in the agreement we have with the municipalities that we need to work together and that we need to be open to municipal desires to get rid of rules and to open up new administrative processes and how we can make life easier for them when we ask them to find 1% each year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133237	Thank you. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133239	If the Prime Minister could guarantee that the money from these 7 billion cuts... kr. I am sure that the Prime Minister would have made that guarantee either to me or to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. That is why I very much hope that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl listens very carefully and thinks, because the Danish People's Party chose not to cut back in the municipalities. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister that another of the arguments of the Danish People's Party is that the municipalities themselves have also been involved in the agreement here, but it has actually been the case that the municipalities have rejected in the strongest possible way. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: can the Prime Minister confirm that the municipalities have in no way agreed or agreed to cut by 2.4 billion? kr. a year in 2017, 2018 and 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133349	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133352	An agreement has been reached on the municipal economy for 2016 and it has been concluded based on the fact that the government has communicated to the municipalities that we want to work with a re-priority contribution not only in 2016, but in general. It's the way we've been doing it in the state since after my best memory... sometime in the early 1980s. Well, that's what may be a little surprising in all this: that it's going to stand as if it's such an extraordinary evil invention we've come up with. With few exceptions, this has been the case in the field of education and culture, which we have also corrected at the level of the State, that year by year you have had such an efficiency contribution or a re-prioritisation contribution. It is thus borne by the basic common sense that it is good for all institutions, all ministerial areas, all municipalities, all regions to constantly feel this development pressure to see if you can make things a little cheaper and a little smarter. The crucial thing is the room it frees, for it frees billions of dollars • the money to be spent wisely. And yes, there will then be a political discussion about what they are to be used for, and it will be in a split between collective welfare and individual welfare through tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133509	Thank you. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133510	I would like to pay tribute to the Prime Minister for having made two points absolutely clear during this Question Time. One is that the municipalities have not agreed to cut billions of kroner in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Now I lost track, it's rare that this happens. Yeah, now I remembered it again. The second is that the Left cannot guarantee that the billions of cuts will not be passed on to tax cuts. In other words, voting for the billions of cuts is giving the Left and the Prime Minister a blank cheque to make a tax reform for the huge amount of money that will be taken away from nursing homes, crèches and primary schools. Then I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister will give a good advice to the chairman of the KL, that is to say, the chairman of the National Association of Municipalities, when he says that this will affect the very citizen-centred welfare of, for example, our day care institutions, primary schools and the elderly. Where does the prime minister think the municipalities should cut? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133618	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133619	I'm gonna have to arrest me for being equipped with some blank cheques, because that's not what this is about. It is a question of the Folketing adopting a financial law every year, and this is how the financial law determines how consumption and public expenditure are to fall the following year. What I'm fighting to get, as head of government, is to have a room to make politics together with a majority. I can't do it alone. And I wouldn't want to hide that any of it, including us. has an ambition to ensure the individual well-being of this society. This applies, among other things, to: for the people who get up every morning work hard and do not get any significant gain out of it. It is also welfare that they can get a little more money for themselves, so they have an opportunity to go on holiday, so they have an opportunity to change the sofa with a new one when the old one is worn down. It's well-being, too, and I'm gonna fight for it. But how it comes out, I cannot stand and give a sure forecast for, for it is decided year by year in negotiations with the parliamentary political parties. Therefore, it cannot be concluded, as Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen did before, that what I have said here should mean something quite definite about how many public employees there are in 2019, because neither I nor Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen know that at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133735	Thank you. Thank you to the questioner. The next one is sir. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133744	Thank you. I think there is reason to congratulate the Prime Minister. Not only do we now have a question time, we also have an innovation: an answer time. There will be an answer to the questions that are being asked. In fact, the Prime Minister has managed to give an answer to a question that has not been asked to Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen. It is really progressing, it must be said. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for helping to make the Liberal Alliance such a middle party in the sense that we went to the polls to pick up 1%. It was completely on the moon and completely unrealistic, and it could not be done. And immediately after the elections, the government goes out and makes a re-priority contribution and gets the Socialists to sign it. We thank you for your efforts. Now we can start discussing what that money is for. The Prime Minister has also mentioned this, and I would also like to thank him for the fact that the Prime Minister has not given any guarantee that some of the money could not be used to create private welfare, i.e. tax relief. However, the Prime Minister thinks that it is a good agreement that the government has made when it has made an allowance reform which reduces employment and costs 300 million. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133858	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103133900	I thought that on top of all those roses there would be a really, really difficult question, and then there came a very, very simple question which I can just answer yes to: Yes, I think we have made a very good deal. If I am to give a brief explanation, this is because the agreement we have made now cannot be seen separately from the original agreement we made back in 2010. And the agreement we made back in 2010 was an agreement that gave an increase in labour supply of about 15,000. That was one of the really big contributions. It was, of course, the reform that, together with the pre-retirement reform, made it possible for us, when we went to elections in 2011, to give birth to a new government. Unfortunately, it was not our own, but it saw someone else who, fortunately, was on the trail we had laid out; yes, I should not be polemic about it, but they did so with some reform decisions that made it so that there was sustainability behind it. Because without this decision on the unemployment benefit reform and the pre-retirement reform, more than 40 billion would have been missing. kr. a year. Then we have adjusted the 2010 reform, and it is true that if you look in isolation at what we have just agreed, then you pull out a job offer. But, frankly, the overall footprint from the unemployment benefit reforms is positive. It is more than 14,000 extra jobs, so it is a good deal • also because it now creates calm and harmony, including politically, and that is what is needed. So, yeah, that's a good deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134027	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134029	I am sorry to say this, but that is the same as the Prime Minister could have said that if it had cost 3 000 jobs, it would still have been a good deal, because the starting point was 15 000, and then you were down to 12 000. Or if it cost 600 million. kr., it would still have been a good deal, because it could have cost 1 billion. kr. But you can't. It was won, so it doesn't say anything in the Constitution that you had to make an agreement. It's a political decision. It is the government that has taken the initiative. In addition, the opposition party has helped to support a commission which had been given the task of carrying out a neutral reform. However, we have moved away from what was agreed, namely that it should be cost-neutral and not do anything bad for employment, to suddenly come up with an agreement that actually costs employment and draws Denmark in the wrong direction. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134124	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134126	It is true that for every penny the agreement we made had become more expensive, it would have become a less good deal. Well, that goes without saying. And for every penny it had become cheaper than what we could get through, one might also say that it had become a better deal. But now we got through with what we got through with. Now Mr. Anders Samuelsen said it was the government that had taken the initiative. Oh, I think it would be nice to dress up a little with borrowed feathers anyway, if it was the case that I said that I had taken the initiative to make an allowance reform, that is to say the adjustment. We took the initiative back in 2010 and have said all the way through that it was basically a sensible reform, among other things. Because it gave these 15 000 extra jobs in the labour market. Then a blind person can see, excuse the expression that it has been an enormously scolded reform. You can see that it has almost produced, what should be called, the political paralysis of the previous government, that there was this overriding theme. It was one of those things. Therefore, I myself said in the election campaign that we would like to put our hands together to reach a broad agreement after the elections if we were to have the responsibility to calm things down. Now there has been calm, now there is an agreement with the government, which the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left have joined, and which means that this ghost in Danish politics is mannet in the ground, also in a way that we create an incentive for people to take short-term employment and other things. So yes, sir. Anders Samuelsen can't take away my joy. I think this is a good reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134254	Here you go, sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134255	That's okay, too. There must be a difference between the parties and we can have different views on it. There is just no way around the conclusion itself, namely that employment is being reduced. You then issue a bill of 300 million. kr. that you haven't found the money for yet. There we have to go again, I assume, as the middle party in charge, or whatever to call it, at some point help find the money, and then we have to get on with that task. It just comes down to the fact that the tax on electric cars has also been raised, that the tax on diesel has been raised, that a housing job scheme has been set up which costs up to 1 million. kr. per job. Well, you could basically per. lottery draw has found X number of thousands of Danes a year, stabbed them 800,000 DKK. and asked them to lie quietly at home on the couch. It would have been a cheaper solution. That is the part of what we have seen so far. We look forward to the financial law negotiations which are now entering the crucial phase and in which we hope that the Liberal Alliance will put a decisive imprint. Even if there is an answer, and I acknowledge that, there is no need to agree with the answer. However, I would just still like to emphasise that I think it is nice that we have come into a situation where the answers to the questions are actually being given.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134402	Thank you. Then it is the Prime Minister of the last reply, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134404	Yes, and to live up to that, I just have to sit down again, because there was no question at the end. But I am delighted that Mr. Anders Samuelsen welcomes the fact that the financial law negotiations are to be completed. Now you picked a little bit in the bouquet by taking out some things the government has done. One could also take the integration allowance, which creates greater incentives for people to integrate and which frees money, and the discussions that are currently being held on a cash aid ceiling, which has the same purpose and which, of course, must all contribute to laying the platform for us to come back to discuss tax reform in the spring, hopefully. Because we do not agree on everything; no, of course we are not, and neither should we be. But I think we basically agree that if you are to have welfare, you also have to have prosperity. That is the prerequisite of welfare. And prosperity is now ensured by the fact that Danes are in work, that companies invest in Denmark, that there is a move in Denmark. This is done, among other things, by giving priority to tax relief and not just to increased public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134501	Thank you. Thank you to the questioner. And this is sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134507	Thank you. I would like to start by mentioning the themes I am discussing. My questions will be about digital freedoms and green transition, which is perhaps not surprising. But first we have to go straight to Brussels, because last Thursday the European Parliament decided to call on all EU Member States to grant Edward Snowden a residence permit. Edward Snowden has revealed, at great personal cost, mass surveillance of citizens. These are not only citizens of the United States but also citizens of Europe. And these are not just citizens, but also European democratic institutions such as the European Commission and Heads of State like Merkel. In the last session, the Enhedslisten, together with myself, when I was a non-attached member, proposed that Denmark grant Edward Snowden residence permit. In view of what we have now experienced with the European Parliament's recommendation to the Member States of the European Union, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative will retable our resolution in this session. So my first question is actually: what does the Prime Minister think about that resolution and thus the wish that Denmark should grant Edward Snowden a residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134629	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134631	No matter how much cooperation I really want to be and how many broad agreements we would like to make, I will disappoint the questioner on this point because it will not be a resolution that the government votes for. We have the asylum rules that we have in Denmark, and that means that if Snowden comes to Denmark, he will of course have the opportunity to submit an asylum request, and it will then be dealt with in the Danish system, which will then assess whether he fulfils the conditions, whether he has a need for protection. That's how it's arranged. I find it very difficult to see what the basis would be for the Folketing to take an extraordinary step by special law and offer a US citizen political amnesty in Denmark. It seems to me that there is no basis for assuming that he is a person who is subjected to political persecution. He's wanted for a series of felonies. That is what he is and the United States is a democratic state governed by the rule of law, but I am not the one who has to deal with a possible future application for asylum from Edward Snowden if he finds himself in trouble in Denmark, but I can certainly say that it will not be the government that initiates a special law or votes in favour of a special law. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134753	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134755	It is clear that we are of course sorry that the Prime Minister cannot support our future resolution. We are, of course, because we believe that what we are experiencing right now is a clear violation of basic democratic rights. What we have seen is the publication of documents which clearly document illegal mass surveillance. It's not just me saying this. That is also the conclusion of, among other things. The American Senate, which has also made new rules for the NSA's operations. So, of course, I am sorry that there is not that attention to the basic democratic freedoms. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister believes that the revelations we have seen Edward Snowden have benefited or damaged the ordinary Dane's freedoms, including the right to privacy, also on the digital platforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134858	Thank you. It's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103134900	In other words, by refusing to vote in favour of a special law which would grant asylum to a particular American citizen in Denmark, I did not say anything at all negative about the debate he has initiated. I haven't. It's there. That is why we must also take account of the fact that some of the aspects raised by the questioner, without me having to learn about American justice, must also be elements that could be involved there. In other words, the crucial point here is whether this is a person who is politically persecuted and thus has an individual need for protection. Yes or no? Does that person reside in Denmark, in Danish territory, so that they can apply for asylum? Yes or no? And to me, it's a no to both questions. It is an American citizen who is wanted for something that everything else equal, one must understand, is criminal. After all, it is a question of whether you can be confident that the US authorities can deal with it in a way that respects human rights and demands for trial and other matters. That's where I was born, starting with the fact that you can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135002	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135003	I mean, if I interpret the Prime Minister's statement kindly, I hear the Prime Minister say that the revelations that Edward Snowden has given rise to have highlighted a major issue. That is, of course, a friendly interpretation, but I shall now stick to that. The last question is not really my question; it is the Members of the Alternative who have asked the question. The last few days we have asked our Members the question: what question would they really like to ask the Prime Minister if they had the chance to ask him a question? Not surprisingly, there were issues about climate, environment, green business policy. What scored the most was this question, and now I quote it: Does the Prime Minister take seriously the warnings from Danish Industry, Danish Energy and DTU when they agree to warn that the government's savings in the green area will destroy the Danish leading position and thus the possibility of exporting green technology? So our members have actually said: does the Prime Minister read this, and does he take these warnings seriously, and does the government have any considerations, any answers to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135117	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135118	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Yeah, I take what I hear from that edge, seriously. I do so that I take seriously everything I hear from that edge. From that edge, i.e. from among others. Danish Industry, I also hear that there is a need to tighten up financial policy, I hear that there is a need to ensure that our companies have a level of cost that is reasonable and that can be given relief to the business community. I hear even more clearly than I hear in my own head, a discussion that is about the tax on the last earned crown. I hear a lot of things, and then I hear this too. My task, the task of the government, the task of the Folketing, is somehow to balance it. And yes, it would have been easier if we had just so much money that we shouldn't have to give priority. However, the situation is that we need to tighten up financial policy in order to be on the right side of the line, and then we have to do it in a balanced way. Although we are reducing research costs, we are still writing away into the exclusive company that complies with the EU's objectives. So I can stand by the priorities we make, but of course I am listening to what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135230	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135238	I would also like to sign for the Prime Minister's cooperation and our ability to influence the government's doings and barn. It is clear that if we had won the parliamentary elections and were still in government, there would not have been a financial law with massive savings on education and research. Then we would not have given priority to taking money from the world's poor and from the poorest in Denmark to finance welfare, but nevertheless opportunities have been offered to where we have also had the opportunity to exert influence, and we will continue to do so. One of the areas in which we fundamentally disagree is in the area of foreigners, even though the Prime Minister has now come to the realization that there is probably only a European solution to the refugee problem and not just a Danish one like the one we heard about in the election campaign. However, despite our differences, I would also like to appeal to cooperation in this area today, because we are very opposed to the introduction of the integration service, which is a new variation on the old theme of start-up aid. But that disagreement should not stand in the way of us trying together to remedy the consequences of the policy being pursued. The reality is that it is now becoming more difficult for the municipalities to do what I actually sense we are agreed on: that the refugees who come in large numbers must be integrated as quickly as possible so that they get their feet under their own table, find a permanent home, get jobs and can support themselves. The problem with the benefits of integration, regardless of what you think about it, is that it makes work harder because it makes it necessary for many to be placed in temporary housing. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister today: was it not possible to bring together a group of parties in the context of the financial law negotiations that are willing to look at the municipalities' now major problems in receiving these refugees and finding accommodation for them? Because whatever we have of disagreements about foreign policy and about the benefits of integration, it is a challenge that these refugees are now placed in temporary housing. This gives a bad start to integration; it prevents the achievement of our common goal of becoming self-sufficient as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135437	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135439	Thank you. I would not have thought that I would have said what I am now saying: it would have been very interesting if the Radical Left and the Social Democrats had won the elections, because then it would have been understood that a financial bill would have been presented without reductions in development, without reductions in education, without reductions in research, without any reductions in the situation in which the policy chosen was a policy that went beyond the edge of the EU rules. I am not going to ask again, but otherwise the good question would be: what savings had been made? But we'll never get an answer to that. On the other hand, we basically disagree. We have a very strong belief that the fact that people get an integration benefit equal to the SU level contributes to two things. Firstly, to put it quite openly, it is some conditions of residence that make Denmark not exceptionally attractive, and it is important in this crisis that we are facing, which is both a refugee and also a migration crisis. The whole new thing is that people aren't just running away from something, they're running away to something too. Denmark is not the first safe country to get to if you flee the war in Syria. It's not. That is why there are mechanisms for fleeing from war and coming to a country, no. 2 country, no. 3 country, No. 4 country, no. 5 country, no. Six countries and applies for asylum there. There, we quite openly do not want to appear as an extraordinary attraction that gives asylum seekers in a number that cannot be dealt with. That is part of it to say it quite openly, and we probably do not agree on that. The second is that we believe quite a lot that when you do a performance at this level, there is a greater incentive to take a striking job. The third is that we have introduced a language bonus. Now we've had this picture that the Syrians who come are very, very well educated. It's an image that cracks on closer inspection. It is perhaps up to half of those who are Latin illiterate, and therefore it makes very, very good sense to put together a performance that gives you a strong ambition to learn our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135703	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135705	I have no doubt that the Prime Minister is strong in his faith. But when we look at the figures that may be better to rely on than faith itself, they show that the benefits of integration will affect 40,000 people and it is expected that 283 will get into work. So that's very, very few. I think that the 283 should perhaps be set up against 20,000 to be quite true, but nevertheless it is in round number 1 that gets to work for each time, 99 people just get a lower benefit. These are the latest figures they were available this weekend, these are the government's own figures. That is why the challenge will be, and therefore the repetition of my question, so that the Prime Minister will have a chance not to spoil the good mood of answering the question: what should we do for all the others? What are we going to do for the 99 out of 100 municipalities now finding it more difficult to integrate, which cannot afford to live in permanent housing and therefore have to live in the shanty towns that are now shooting up around, because the policies of the Prime Minister and the Government make them now less able to pay their rent and be permanently accommodated? What should we do about it, and should we not be allowed to help?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135816	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135818	At any rate, you must always be allowed to offer your help. We appreciate that very much. I believe that care should be taken to mix technical labour supply calculations with what is the human effect of what we are doing here. That is why I am actually doing a great deal to say that if we are pursuing the immigration policy that we are doing, which is going on two legs, then it has a dual aim. The number matters; we are getting many asylum seekers in Denmark at the moment, but we are getting relatively less than we got historically when we look at what extraordinary pressure there is. And that has something to do with the fact that we have adjusted some conditions of residence. Some of this can be credited to the former government when it took the initiative to create the temporary protection base which sent out a signal, and other things we have followed up by doing the integration service. Among other things, it has. the aim of sending a signal to people who are migrants when they reach the Danish border that it does not have to be the first choice. Because that's the prerequisite for us to be able to do anything at all to solve this integration task. Furthermore, we are in an ongoing dialogue with the municipalities, and I cannot rule out the fact that in this context we will also have to come back to the Folketing on what settlement opportunities are in the municipalities in a situation where the pressure is greater than it has historically been.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135941	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103135944	Now it will be advanced and perhaps even more advanced than my 30 seconds here will suffice when the Prime Minister begins to distinguish between the technical effects and the human effects, but let us keep it that way. You don't just have to listen to me because we have a basic disagreement that makes me feel that the Prime Minister may not quite hear the warm offer to do something about the problem, but then you can listen to the Left. Martin Damm, Chairman of the KL and Mayor of the Left, said on the TV Newspaper yesterday: we can just point out that when the performance gets lower, our task becomes all the harder. It will be harder to find permanent housing in which refugees can afford to live. That is the starting point for integration, and that is why we are saying: should we not meet in the housing circle or somewhere else and look at what we can do for the municipalities to mitigate the consequences of government policy, so that our common goal of getting refugees to work as quickly as possible, ensuring them stability and the foot below their own table is achieved and not suffering shipwreck as a result of the government's ideological ride on the integration service, which, at least with the usual methods of calculation, does not have a major impact on whether they are going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140047	Thank you. The Prime Minister of the last reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140048	This is a major discussion, and it cannot be kept within 30 seconds. A small contribution is just to say that I think one should be very careful just to take out such small pieces and then look very, very isolated on them. For without the integration benefit, without the tightening up we made last year on the initiative of the then government of residence conditions, and without a number of other measures taken in Danish politics over a number of years, which have made us have a more realistic keynote in relation to all these challenges that they face in a number of other countries, I would be firmly convinced that at the moment we had an even greater number of asylum seekers in Denmark, and then the challenge for the municipalities would have been significantly greater than it is today. Therefore, one cannot just take out such a piece and say that there is a challenge here and that it is difficult. Yes, it is difficult, and indeed it is challenging, but our overall policy is to find a balance between meeting our international commitments and doing so in such a way that we do not get a larger number to Denmark than we can handle.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140154	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140204	Thank you. I have, of course, looked forward immensely to the Question Time here and the opportunities it offers to ask very good questions and, above all, to get good and clear answers, and I think we have had that so far. However, I have also been looking forward as a parliamentary basis for the government, because I am extremely concerned to help the government and to back it up and to stand behind it in every way, and that is also in the light of my question. We want to help the government get good civil policy through. It's just so the Prime Minister can be safe about it. As the Prime Minister knows, we in the Conservative People's Party are very concerned about the security of the homeowners, and so I would like to read a reply from the Treasury to a Dane who has written to the Ministry and asked about the housing tax. Christian, as he is called, has been written and I quote: In order to provide security for the individual owner's economy, a broad political agreement has been reached among the Danish Parliament's parties to keep housing taxes at bay in the next few years. This means that the tax freeze on property value tax and the base tax ceiling on property tax, i.e. land tax, are maintained. I will just take the last thing again: this means that the tax freeze on property value tax and the base tax ceiling on property tax, i.e. land tax, are maintained. There are indications that government officials are writing to homeowners that housing taxes are being kept in order, almost as if there were a tax freeze which also applied to the land tax. Then I thought this must be the right place to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister thinks that Danish homeowners here actually have a tax stop without exceptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140402	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140405	Thank you. After all, the landowners have exactly the same conditions as those they had, the last time our parties had the pleasure of being in government with each other. So that definition of the tax freeze, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen refers to the definition used by the VK government, to which both the Left and the Conservative People's Party stood for year after year. So it's not something I have ownership of alone, it has both our respective parties. Does that make a challenge? Yes, it does, and there has been a debate and some of it, I suppose. is the challenge, is that the regulatory mechanism we have put in means that the taxes of some value increases come with a very considerable delay, and it is actually very difficult to understand that one's reason, which may at the moment not be increasing at all in price, is now increasing in tax because it is late in paying taxes on some old increases in value. It's something very, very complicated. So what we can probably achieve is that I have seen a strong conservative desire to discuss this matter, and the right place to do it is over with the Minister of Finance exactly this day as an integral part of the final negotiations on the Finance Act for 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140535	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140537	Thank you. I can give the Prime Minister a commitment that such a discussion will take place in every possible way and at any time of the day. I choose to interpret the answer as no, there is no tax freeze. And it's absolutely true that it's like the VK time. A few moments ago, on the basis of some estimates, there have been sharp increases in tax payments. But if I take the view that the Prime Minister said no, there is no tax freeze, then the homeowners know that this does not apply to them. Then I'd like to know if the Prime Minister thinks that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140619	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140621	I don't think there are any taxes in this society that are too high. Whether you consider reason or reason, I cannot stand and come... too low There is no tax that is too low, whether it is reasonable or reasonable, so ideally we would like to do many things, including in relation to this theme. After all, we are bound by the fact that things have to be linked, and what the Conservative People's Party is talking about is very, very expensive, and our main priority is elsewhere. It lies with people with small incomes in order to ensure the prosperity of the future. But I have shown that openness to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, that I have made room for this discussion to be withdrawn from the Parliamentary Chamber and into the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140745	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140747	I thank you for letting us decide for ourselves what we say when we meet the Minister for Finance and what things we take up. I very much appreciate that. I'm not quite sure if I got ahold of whether the Prime Minister thinks it's fair or not. I hear that there are priorities, and I fully agree with the Prime Minister that all the economy is priorities, no matter where you are in this society or in the public sector. Can the Prime Minister just, if only for my sake, point to a tax that treats citizens more unfairly and creates greater uncertainty for the landowners than the ground debt does?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140827	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140829	I don't think I should be throwing myself into standing and ranking the various taxes. One might say that it is a tax paid of a value, and what has then been the challenge of the assessment system we have had and have and are going to discuss changing is that one cannot have complete confidence in whether the valuations are necessarily the right ones too. But otherwise it is basically a tax that is paid and if it is paid with a higher amount, then it covers the fact that there is an underlying increase in value, which somewhere also needs to be capitalised. But you can't eat your land, and you can't eat your bricks. That is why, of course, this form of taxation presents some not least liquidity challenges, and especially indeed for some people who may have a small, ongoing income. That is why we have historically been trying, in other words in the old days, to remedy, for example. pensioners. And we want to get back into that kind of debate. After all, that is what I have opened up to, and it is not to sanction what the Conservative People's Party must say when they come to the meetings. The Conservative People's Party must say what they want, but it was more to send out a signal about what we are prepared to listen to if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140947	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister. After that, the Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103140955	Today there is the following review: Liselott Blixt (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 25 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new strategy for treating patients with tick-borne infections). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141030	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141038	Astrid Krag has applied for leave from 3 November 2015, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing 4, while Rune Lund and Roger Matthisen have both applied for leave from 3 November 2015, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141120	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party of Sjællands Storkreds, Kasper Roug, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 3 November 2015 on the occasion of Astrid Krag's leave, that the First Deputy of the Enhedslisten in Fyns Storkreds, Jesper Kiel, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 3 November 2015 on the occasion of Rune Lund's leave, and that the First Deputy of the Alternative in Fyns Storkreds, Nikolaj Amstrup, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 3 November 2015 on the occasion of Roger Matthisen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141214	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141258	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 3 by Hans Andersen (V), Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Bent Bøgsted (DF) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), and voting is possible. Has everyone voted? That concludes the vote. In favour 77 (S, DF, V and RV), against 31 (EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF), abstentions 0. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution. V 3 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 4 of Finn Sørensen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and V 5 of Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141425	This election is without debate. The committee has recommended that Jørgen Steen Sørensen be re-elected the Ombudsman of Parliament. No other proposals have been put forward and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141452	A vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. Jørgen Steen Sørensen is then re-elected Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141525	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. We need a little quiet in the Chamber while Members go out, because the first rapporteur is on the way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141552	Thank you. L 33 concerns free access to and from arrival and departure terminals and traffic management arrangements at airports and airports. For the Socialists, it is crucial that we have an efficient infrastructure so that people and goods can move forward quickly. This also applies to our airports. And it can be said that the purpose of the draft law here is to establish the principle that there must be free public access to airports in Denmark. A good and efficient infrastructure is an important prerequisite for creating growth and jobs. There are problems today in connection with our airports that we need to resolve, and it is a problem in our view that there is today a great deal of congestion on the roads around Copenhagen Airport due to taxis in idle waiting to enter the taxi area of the airport or when it is not possible to get a taxi at Aalborg Airport. When you can fly from Copenhagen to Aalborg in 45 minutes, it is a little paradoxical, you might say that the time saving can actually be eaten up by long waiting times for a taxi. It is not optimal, and we see this bill here as part of the solution. We believe that the Minister of Transport should try to resolve some of the challenges outlined, not least in view of the fact that general traffic will increase in the coming years. And the bill we are discussing today can be part of the solution. We in the Socialist Group believe that it is sensible for the legislative proposal to establish that free access to and from our arrival and departure terminals should continue for at least 15 minutes. It is important for the Socialists to make it clear that in the future private drivers also have the right to unload and load for 15 minutes, that it should be free around our airports, and that traffic management systems can help to optimise traffic to and from airports and to ensure a wide range of transport options. We also think it is sensible that the Minister of Transport should approve the establishment of traffic management systems so that the Community's desire for greater mobility is not ignored by airports' desire for profits. Finally, the draft law provides that aerodromes retain the possibility of charging for commercial passenger transport services, but that total payments must not exceed the costs of establishment and operation of aerodromes. It is therefore quite important to make it clear that this should not be another opportunity to make profits for airports, but that it should only be possible to collect what is actually in plant and operating costs. Of course we support this, but I would also like to say that we attach importance to diving a little deeper into the future work on the amount that is being paid today, namely 16 DKK. per taxi, is actually in line with what is in relation to the construction and operating costs. As I started by mentioning, we Socialists are concerned that there is easy access to and from our airports, and we hope that this bill can contribute to it and we look forward to the further consideration of the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141907	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141915	I would just like to hear the rapporteur about something, because my own reaction when I started reading this bill was: is it really necessary to legislate in this area? Is it not such a relatively limited problem, first and foremost limited to Copenhagen Airport, that it is just enough to take action with legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103141941	In other words, what we actually ensure is that in the future there is also an opportunity for you as a private person to come to and from the airport and within 15 minutes can actually park your car and can hand in people who need to fly a plane or can accept people who come from elsewhere. We think this is quite important, because what we can say is that, if we do not legislate on it, this will actually provide an opportunity for it to become a profit engine for airports. Right now, sir, that's right. Henning Hyllested says that it mainly concerns Copenhagen Airport, but no one can predict the future, and there can be a similar problem at the other airports.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142019	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142022	Nor do I believe that Copenhagen Airport or any other airport should be equipped with any tool that can be used in this case for taxis and impose a payment for which there is no reasonable cover. But now it is actually the case that over the summer a voluntary arrangement has been made at Copenhagen Airport between the payment offices in the capital and Copenhagen Airport. Should we not try to see what results and then try to evaluate after one year rather than take action with legislation now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142058	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142100	It is absolutely true that this is a voluntary agreement, and it is the case with voluntary agreements that they only apply as long as both parties agree that there must be an agreement. So it can be said that by legislating we are at least sure that in the future we have established with seven inch nails that it must continue to be free for private drivers and that we will also have a look at whether it is actually the case that the tax to be paid is in line with the costs of construction and operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142122	Thank you. There are no more questions. Then it's the next rapporteur, sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142133	The Socialist rapporteur has been so brilliantly around the details of the proposal. After all, Copenhagen Airport was given the idea at the time that it could be offered that taxis could come and pick up passengers and deliver passengers at the airport. That would, of course, amount to the fact that DSB also started to introduce it and saw it as a source of revenue, and this bill makes up for that. Of course, that's not okay. You must have the opportunity to take a taxi to the airport and also get a taxi when you land out there and have to move on. So it is quite good that this is becoming freely available to all taxi companies and not becoming a money machine for an Australian company. As far as free parking is concerned, we also support it. Of course you don't have to pay for it. It is almost nowhere to be done, of course, unless you have an electric car that is exempt from duty. However, I think it is excellent that you also have the possibility of unloading and loading at the airport for up to 15 minutes. Of course, the airport should not take money for that. So all in all, this is a good proposal that ensures free and equal access to and from the airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142248	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142255	The rapporteur is very concerned that Copenhagen Airport is not provided with any means of imposing on some taxi hauliers in this case any payment which is not really reasonable and that there must be free and equal access. However, the draft law states precisely that payment arrangements can now be introduced for those who want to come with Copenhagen Airport's customers, and this applies from and through.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142324	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142326	That's probably the 16th. kr., sir. Henning Hyllested is alluding to maintaining infrastructure in connection with airport traffic management systems, and we think that is quite reasonable, in other words, that those who use it are also helping to finance it. But otherwise, I have to assume that sir... Henning Hyllested agrees with me on this free access for everyone and does not support the fact that the airport should turn capital off something as simple as taxi driving. It's not usually Enhedslisten's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142352	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142355	I very much agree with that, but the problem is that it is now legally established that the taxi industry, the bus industry, can be charged some sums to bring customers to and from the airport. It's a piece of legislation. I know you are trying to make some restrictions that say that only so much can be paid, so you maintain that infrastructure. But how much it is is always under negotiation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142430	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142431	If so, it will be something that is documentable, that is, what the cost of this is, and then you will distribute them to the taxi companies that are. So I think it's very simple to check that the airport doesn't use it as a hidden source of revenue. After all, it is up to us politicians to be after them with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142446	Thank you. There's a new questioner, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142452	I'd like to ask Mr. Kim Christiansen, if he knows that this is actually a problem. For I understood earlier on from the Socialists that this was such a little preventive legislation, that is to say we are making a law to ensure that there might not be anyone in the future who is doing something that we do not like. Is that also the view of the Danish People's Party, or is there a real problem in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142516	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142517	In other words, if I understand the question correctly, I would say: yes, it is preventive, in terms of ensuring that the airport cannot continue the exercise that they were actually doing in the spring, namely to outsource taxi services. And it is true that the draft law is preventive in relation to it, and I think that is quite good.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142535	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142554	I can thus lift the veil that the Left is positive about this bill, which will ensure free access to our airports. The motivation for the bill is that in recent years the number of air passengers at Denmark's largest airports has been increasing • and this is positive • and that the interplay between private cars, taxis and buses, as well as between private forms of transport and public transport is expected to become even more complex. The existing legislation does not take sufficient account, on the one hand, of the need to ensure a continued wide range of options for the transport of persons to and from the airport terminal facilities and, on the other hand, of the need for the airport to establish traffic management arrangements with a view to improving the use of airport access routes, living areas, parking facilities, etc. The draft law, which has also been mentioned by previous rapporteurs, proposes that airports should be able to organise traffic better by improving the use of access routes, living areas through traffic management arrangements. Københavns Lufthavne A/S, which put a traffic management scheme for taxis into operation in October, estimates that such a scheme could reduce the daily waiting time and queue for taxis on airports' land by 900 hours. It will therefore also have positive economic consequences with such a traffic management system. In addition, the bill will block airports from making their monopoly status for parking a means of making money. Therefore, it is proposed that private people can park for at least 15 minutes for free, so that they, for example, can park for at least 15 minutes. can easily pick up a family member or other acquaintances after a long journey. On the basis of the reasons now mentioned, the Left would recommend that we vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142802	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142805	The Left is usually known to be a party in favour of regulatory simplification and less bureaucracy. Now, in fact, over the summer, a voluntary agreement has been reached at Copenhagen Airport, which seems to satisfy both parties, so why new legislation? Why then new control activities, reporting etc. etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142835	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142837	We believe that there is a need for orderly conditions also at Copenhagen Airport and other airports in Denmark, and this is a proposal which, as such, will affect the rules, and then it is fine if the scheme that has been implemented at Copenhagen Airport can subsequently be approved by the Minister for Transport and Building. So we are really far from ensuring free and equal access to our airports too, so we look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142905	Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142907	One could also wait and see how the voluntary scheme, which has developed and has been agreed at Copenhagen Airport, is developing and whether it does not really meet the needs, since after all, the need has arisen primarily around Copenhagen Airport and is not a major problem around the provincial airports.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142927	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103142929	But I think we can also agree that due diligence is also a very good concept, and here we have started at a time when we can say: well, there is simply a need to hit this. What should be the rules of the game for ordinary people's access to our airports? What are the rules for the way in which taxi hauliers and other carriers come to and from airports? So we look forward to getting this bill in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143001	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143005	I'm actually very divided about this bill. On the one hand, I understand the reason, that is to say, we want to ensure that there are cheap taxis, with which we have a very big problem. This is something the tourists complain about, and everyone else who comes to Copenhagen is shocked at how much it actually costs to get a taxi. On the other hand, we have not really been shown that there is any misuse of this in that the airport has the possibility of charging. I also think that there is a natural interest in the airport itself in ensuring that such a thing as taxis is a service that works for the airport, because the airport is in competition with other airports around the world • it applies both to those who are close to Malmö and Roskilde, but also to being a large international airport. Then I also think that the state owns part of the airport out there and whether you have the opportunity to exert your pressure along that path. So, according to the Left, there's no other way to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143103	We see this bill as the best proposal in terms of solving both the current ones, but perhaps even more the future problems of ensuring free and equal access to the airport. We can also see that the vast majority of the consultation answers are actually positive in relation to this draft law, and so I note with satisfaction that those who work and move at the airport support that it is handled with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143139	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143144	Is there any possibility, according to the Left, of pursuing this problem through such general monopoly supervision? In other words, we also have a competition authority and other means which might ensure that there is no abuse of a monopoly situation. I ask again because I do not like legislation very much. So I'd like to know if there are any other options.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143206	There is, then, an opportunity to ask the Minister in our legal proceedings whether there are other options. However, I consider this draft law to be the best way of dealing with it, i.e. that we continue to have free and equal access to the airport, and that we have arranged conditions in relation to, for example, the airport. taxis use of and arrival at the airport. Then I think it should be borne in mind that there seems to be a socio-economic gain here. Thus, taxi truck drivers and taxi drivers come forward to spend much less time at the airport to keep in line and can spend their time on what they are put in the world for, namely to serve customers by driving them from A to B.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143251	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143254	Now it seems a little like such an unholy alliance has arisen between the Conservative rapporteur and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, both of whom are sceptical about this proposal. And then I cannot help but mention what our excellent rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is doing. Erik Christensen, said that we think it is positive that there is a legislative proposal in this area. The specific challenge we are facing now is that the voluntary agreement, as it is called, means that the taxi drivers who drive in to pick up a passenger today have to pay 16 DKK. per This is the first time we have had a debate on this subject. in everything that the industry has to pay for itself. It is, of course, in that light that we should see it, and I would like to hear whether the rapporteur of the Left does not agree that it is a very good idea to ensure that there is a hand in hand with this, so that we do not impose excessive costs on an industry and also ensure that there are orderly conditions and not the chaos that we experience when the taxis cannot get passengers and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143349	We look forward to this legislation being able to provide us with transparent traffic management systems where the price charged is in line with the costs that are running this scheme. We look forward to it. I am not going to tell you today what that price will be, but we have ensured that there is a framework around it so that this will not be, what should you say, perhaps the most revenue-covered company for Copenhagen Airport. I think they should make money making Copenhagen Airport available to all the airlines who want to fly us and other customers out into the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143423	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143425	On the social democratic side, we are very pleased that the Left is in favour of this not becoming such a screw without end, where the airport can continue to charge the taxi industry more and more costs; first perhaps 16 DKK, then perhaps 30 DKK, then perhaps 40 DKK. What, then, about the traffic chaos we are experiencing in the vicinity of the airport? Amagerbladet has written an article about it on the basis of a question I put to the Minister. However, is the rapporteur also prepared to look at the problem so that the problem of taxis keeping idle throughout Kastrup and the surrounding area is also handled in a more sensible way than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143504	I look forward to seeing an improvement in the conditions on the surrounding roads once we have adopted this bill and in cooperation with Copenhagen Airport we will have a traffic management scheme at Copenhagen Airport. Because no one is profited by taxis holding on private villa roads just around and waiting in vain for a drive. We are preoccupied with the fact that this is happening on Copenhagen Airport's lands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143537	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. I give the floor to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103143549	As I have indicated in some of the questions I have asked, my first reaction, when I read this bill, was whether it is really necessary to go in and regulate here. How big is the problem when it comes down to it? And we also consider it to be a lex CPH, since we do not believe that the problem exists in many other places around the provincial airports. After all, everything can be boiled down to some questions about whether Copenhagen Airport should be able to charge taxis and buses to bring the airport's own customers, air passengers, to and from the airport, and of course Copenhagen Airport should be able to earn from it. In fact, I have a great deal of sympathy for a hearing answer from taxi driver John Nielsen, who has bothered to participate in the hearing round, and he points out that the Kastrup airfield was given the then state airport company, but later it is sold to foreign capital funds, which are exceling in bringing the profits from the airport out of the country and in tax havens. It is certainly an objection that makes me a little sceptical. After all, there are some important objections in the form of references to the Road Code and to the law on private common roads and also the traffic code as the rules which actually regulate free access to airports. In fact, this is something that other consultation answers also highlight, including the consultation response from the Road Directorate, and I do not really think that the consultation note responds properly to the objections that come here. However, taxi and bus wagon operators also have a good business to serve as large a traffic hub as Copenhagen Airport is, and then it would be most reasonable for the parties together to find a solution to the chaos that has sometimes been at Copenhagen Airport. And the fact is that the parties here quite recently, on 5 October, have succeeded in setting up a system known as the Taxi Management System if it is to be pronounced in English, which has been concluded between Copenhagen Airport and the four order offices in the capital. It is, of course, a voluntary agreement and, as the Socialist rapporteur said, such an agreement can, of course, be denounced. Yes, it can, but it will not be abandoned if both parties profit from the agreement, and that is what both parties are doing at the moment, and that is probably why the agreement has been concluded. In fact, I am not up to date on whether a voluntary arrangement has also been made for the tourist buses out there, but otherwise it should also be possible. Against this background, Enhedslisten is in fact inclined to say that the bill is superfluous, at least to some extent. Or at least we should perhaps wait for an evaluation of the new scheme at Copenhagen Airport, and such an evaluation could probably take place within half a year or a whole year. So it's not something we had to wait for years for. Should the government maintain the bill, it should be added an evaluation clause that is implemented after 1 year. Moreover, we have certainly sympathy for the provision that there must be at least 15 minutes of free parking, although we can also see that there may be a problem with the pirate taxi service Uber, which then had free access to the airport. Nevertheless, it makes a great deal of sense to ignore Uber. We can see that Copenhagen Airport predicts chaos with such a provision, and when I read Copenhagen Airport's hearing answer and look at the process that has been going through out there, I cannot quite say that the airport really thinks that customers are there for them and not the other way around. As I am sure this rapporteur's speech shows, the Enhedslisten reserves its position and awaits the committee's examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144008	Then I give the floor to Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144013	After this committed speech, you'd think that there were no questions to ask, because it was also wide-ranging. But I'm a little puzzled, because when you hear Mr. Henning Hyllested speaks, it sounds a little like sir. Henning Hyllested is critical of the way Copenhagen Airport can foam the cream with this, and that there is a capital fund that makes money from the fact that there are people driving to and from. But the bill here is precisely about being able to hold hands with Copenhagen Airport and make sure that it is just payment for the costs that can be that must be covered by this, so that you can't make money from having this traffic management system. Is it not true that this is a rather strange alliance, as Mr. Henning Hyllested has gotten himself into here with the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144108	Alliance and alliance, that's the kind of thing you're gonna do. The fact that you have the same views on some things happens. But this has something to do with proportionality. In fact, I think it is extremely important to start to legislate and introduce a bureaucracy in which reports have to be made and so on. and so on, and that a large service is being built out there, which must also be kept in place and where money and hi-stops are to be collected and come down here. I think it might be violent just for the sake of Copenhagen Airport because that's what we're talking about implementing legislation and building this bureaucracy. Now a voluntary agreement has been made out there, and perhaps you could wait and see if it solves the problem. Because then we wouldn't be building this bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144201	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144204	In fact, as a Social Democrat rapporteur, I have a great deal of sympathy for Enhedslisten and Mr. Henning Hyllested's approach to this with: Let's drop the unnecessary bureaucracy. The rapporteur also says that a voluntary agreement has been made. But it does mean certain problems today, among other things. In my question to the Left rapporteur, I mentioned the fact that taxis are kept in Kastrup and the surrounding area and are filling up because this scheme is not good enough. And now the rapporteur would not be quite sure that there is an alliance with the Conservatives, yet one could say that there is a køalliance, the K-E Alliance, because the taxis are in line in the whole taxi area here, because the voluntary scheme is not good enough, and if it turns out that there is unnecessary particulate emissions, unnecessary pollution, etc., because this is not organised in a sufficiently good way, is it still not very reasonable that the Ministry of Transport is also required to behave in a fair and smarter way than is the case today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144306	Sir. Rasmus Prehn is an excellent speaker who understands to dispute things when it has to be. That's nice to listen to. The voluntary arrangement at Copenhagen Airport is from 5 October. So it is quite brand-new, so I should like to say a few words now, and that is also what I am saying in my rapporteur's speech. Let us now see if it does not work. Then I do not think that the bill itself solves the problem of what is going on in the vicinity of the airport. There are, of course, general rules for the transport sector, and that is actually one of the things I mentioned about who has the road authority. It's the Road Code and the Law on Private Common Roads and Road Traffic Law that regulates this. In the end, it is really the police who have to take action here, if I may say so. They have plenty to do in advance, I understand, but that's where you go. So I don't think that's a reason for making this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144359	So I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144412	Thank you. I think I'm gonna put myself in the slipstream of the Enhedslisten. It's not often you get to start your speech with it. It can be said that the draft law we are considering here is one of the kinds of laws we would rather not have too many of in the Folketing. Why am I telling you this? Yes, because, on the one hand, we are dealing with private companies which are in their full right to price their products as they please. It is, as a general rule, extremely rare that it is a state task to interfere in market formation. In any case, you have to think very carefully before you go that way. On the other hand, we are also dealing here with a task which may have a certain monopoly character, which has been mentioned by several people, and which may require special attention from society, as a great many people, for example. have to go out and into the airport every single day. In this case, we have to deal with a problem where it seems that voluntary agreements have already been made on a traffic management system, as it is now called, and I also note that there is already the possibility of free loading and unloading within this neighbourhood, as the draft law also provides. If that is correct, one might ask whether legislation is necessary. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not want to shoot grey sparrows with guns, let alone with the legislative gun, which is already being used too much in this country. If, as legislators, we are insecure about the fact that we are greedy about using a de facto monopoly and milking the system, as we have heard, to the disadvantage of transport operators and passengers, I think we should start by asking for an account from the airport and giving the company the opportunity to account for the economy and, in other words, to ensure that the ministry ensures the community, we can say that it is a closed circuit and, of course, the auditor's endorsement, as such, so that there is certainty that only reasonable and what is called eligible costs are counted; that is to say, a sort of rest in itself, as we know from many other companies. Today it is the case that the state owns about 40%. by Kastrup Airport. At least that's how I'm informed. So it would also surprise me if the State did not have the opportunity to assert its interests without having to deal with a legislative proposal which regulates a company's free nourishment. A legislative proposal aimed at itself should not, in our view, be the first to resort to. If it ends up with legislation in this area, I think we should know what consequences it might have for the agreements already concluded, which are voluntary. We should not want to end up achieving the opposite of what we really want. So in conclusion, I would just like to say that, as the draft law now stands, we are very concerned, but we will of course not deny that we can become wiser in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144724	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments, and I would therefore like to ask Mr Seligman to do so. Christian Poll get up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144736	Thank you. The alternative understands and acknowledges that over a long period of time there have been significant challenges with the management of the taxi service in and around Copenhagen Airport, and we have looked at this bill, which we intend to endorse as a starting point, because it sets up a relatively fixed framework around both the taxi service and private access and ensures free and equal access to the airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144811	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103144826	I think this is a very important bill. For a year or two, Copenhagen has discussed how much Copenhagen Airport had to take for taxis and buses to come to the airport and drive people around. It has been a heated debate in the industry, and I think many of us have had a feeling that Copenhagen Airport might just like to make a little extra money on passengers by imposing a tax on buses and taxis. At least many people in the industry have felt the same way. It is now in today's debate that a voluntary agreement has been made. But I have at least spoken to some parties in the industry who say that it is still too expensive, and I cannot answer them because I do not know what the reasonable price is for coming and picking up some people at the airport. I think it is fair enough that you can take a price because it costs some money to have some infrastructure and to have some crew that can get people to taxis and buses etc., but I do not know what is the reasonable price. Therefore, it is a good idea that we are now making some regulation where the Minister of Transport, the Ministry of Transport, is given the authority to make an assessment and then also get the airport to correct if they take too much money. We must bear in mind that taking an airport too much money will damage those who transport, it will damage tourism, and it will also damage some of the small businesses, some small bus companies or taxi hauliers. I do not think that is fair, so we must protect the small ones, who do not have much negotiating power with a large airport when prices are being set. That is why the Radical Left supports this bill and is very pleased that the new Left Government has put it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145006	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145011	That's right for Mr. Knox. Andreas Steenberg's comment on the voluntary agreement. After all, it is very common to talk to the taxi driver with whom you drive, and then it is popular opinion. I have the last issue of DanTaxi's member magazine from October 2015, and the scheme is being praised. It says: Nice start for the new system at Copenhagen Airport. And then all the rules are listed. What they are aiming at in particular is that there is a fair distribution between the different taxi companies. They have different sizes and different sizes of their fleet. There is a fair distribution of rides. So there is so far praise from DanTaxi.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145102	Well, it may well be that this voluntary agreement is actually good. It's just hard for me to know. It's also hard to know if the airport will eventually run these small carriers over and then turn the price up to something unreasonable. That is why I think it makes sense for us to have tools so that we politicians who have to ensure that our entire society has the best conditions have an opportunity to go in and regulate it here, in the event that some small businesses have been mistreated by a large company that wants to take advantage of the fact that they have a monopoly. They're the ones who, like, deliver passengers through the planes that come in. So I think it makes sense for us, as legislators, to have some tools to ensure these small transport companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145152	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145154	Now that a voluntary agreement has been made, should we not wait and see if it works? I have a great deal of sympathy for this, and I very much agree with the rapporteur that this is very much about protecting any small taxi companies from the huge monopoly that Copenhagen Airport has. However, an agreement has now actually been reached which seems to be praised, at least for the time being, by both sides of the industry. And that is what I am saying about proportionality: is it not violent with legislation when you actually have something that works? One can always intervene if it turns out that it does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145233	I do not know what is behind the debate that has been going on. It was there at some point that the taxi drivers could not be allowed to enter the airport area at all. Then it may well be that they have now got an agreement that they can get in against paying an increased amount. I don't know. That's why I want the Traffic Authority to have the opportunity to go in and evaluate this. Does what is now being taken to allow the taxis to enter the airport area correspond to the costs? I think it is fair that we should find out if it is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145303	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145306	I was a little puzzled about a single passage in Mr. The speech by Andreas Steenberg. The radical rapporteur said that he could not assess how much it should cost to keep out there. I am surprised that the Radicals are ready to resort to legislation on how much it will cost to keep out there if it is not possible to assess how much it should cost. After all, I am of the opinion that the most clever thing is to stay away from the planned economy and politically detailed management of how much things should cost and leave it to market forces. There are forces here that regulate it. There's competition. There is also some possibility of using other airports, and there is also an interest in keeping prices at an acceptable level even as an airport. Isn't that enough power? Why is it that we have to resort to legislation? Is there a proven need for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145355	Now, sir. Rasmus Jarlov and I are just politicians, so when I say that I but there the Ministry of Transport can go in to see what the cost is from the airport, and see if it corresponds to the price now charged. What is the challenge here is that the airport is a large company, and it is Copenhagen Airport that we are talking about, and they can, of course, push these many, many small companies to pay more than is reasonable. There I think it is fair that we are protecting these small businesses by going in and looking at the seams, whether you are actually taking the price that it costs to operate the airport or whether you take a little extra to pay it to your shareholders.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145438	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145440	But the Radicals are not usually a planned economic party. Normally, it is a market economy party that is in favour of competition regulating how much things have to cost. Why is this happening in this case? It also happens in many other areas that we have a large company which has some small subcontractors who work together. Should we then also go in to regulate it in many other areas? Why do we have to protect a monopoly such as the taxi industry? There's also a taxi monopoly. There's a limit to how many people are allowed to drive a taxi. So I think it is very complicated to go in and make a political regulation of prices in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145522	I'd also like to help change the taxi law. I would like to shake hands with the Conservative People's Party. I think you should do that. The challenge is that the taxi driver cannot say that he is picking up passengers at another airport because there is only one airport. That is why it is the airport that has a long way to go, because it has a monopoly on the provision of passengers, because it is only the airport that you can fly to, at least, if you want to fly to Copenhagen. I just think that these small businesses are bad when they have to negotiate with the airport, because it can just say: if you don't want to pay what it costs, you can't drive passengers from the airport into the center of Copenhagen. That is why I think it is sensible to go in and make some regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145602	No one else has asked for the floor. I would like to thank the rapporteur and to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145616	We welcome the fact that Copenhagen Airport is doing so well and that it is also preparing for a future with even more traffic, because it has to be said that it is time to regulate access conditions around the airport. And with what is here, we think it is good that such a flexible approach is provided where it will be free of charge for the private people who last for a short time and with a limited payment for the taxis. Then the discussion on whether legislation is necessary in such a situation can be justified. We would have liked the voluntary agreement to have been able to run for a long time, but since the situation is that the scribes in the ministry think this is what is needed, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145700	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And the word is now Mr. Rasmus Jarlovs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145715	I would say that the Conservative People's Party is, as a starting point, rather sceptical about this bill. We will look forward to the committee reading and also to further input to the law here, but immediately we do not like making legislation where there is no documented need for it. I find it hard to see, and I have not really been able to get anyone else to answer it when I have asked here before whether there should be such a documented need for this law. It is, of course, very complex because there are also arguments in favour of regulation. There is a monopoly-like state with an airport out there that is very dominant in the Copenhagen area. There is competition, but one can discuss whether the level of competition is strong enough. On the other hand, I would like to say that I also believe that the taxi companies are quite strong. They also have some sort of monopoly position, and they will also be able to negotiate fair terms. On the conditions that are now, I believe that they appear to be reasonable. At least I haven't seen evidence of anything else. Against this background, I do not see the need for us to go in and make legislation. I think that we should be very careful about this, and I think that when there are forces that regulate prices, it is not the right thing to go about setting prices politically when it comes to voluntary agreements between private operators. So we are quite sceptical about the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145857	One person has asked for the floor. It's sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145903	I just made it at the last minute. Well, that sounds great when mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party speaks against this bill. As I mentioned in one of my previous questions, this week's Amagerbladet is a major article about taxis starting to use the villa roads in Kastrup as parking spaces. They keep there idle and it causes a lot of particulate emissions and problems. After all, I have noted that the Conservative People's Party has so dressed itself in a new green color and would like to market a little on the environmental issue. Isn't it an obvious opportunity to use this bill to regulate it so that the citizens of Kastrup-Towerby don't have to deal with taxis idle on the villa roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103145948	I'm having a little trouble seeing the connection between there being cows out there and this bill. Well, the bill here makes sure it doesn't get too expensive for the cabs to keep at the airport. If you ensure that it is cheap for the taxis to hold at the airport, through legislation, then there must be more taxis out there waiting. So I find it very difficult to see the connection between the two things here, but sir... Rasmus Prehn is allowed to elaborate on it in the second round, if he can, because immediately I did not understand the meaning of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150013	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150016	The bill here is about traffic management, and that is how to dose the access of taxis to the airport. Bombs and other things have been set up so that it is the approved taxis that come in and those who pay that come in. The others can't get in. And since Copenhagen Airport has chosen to say that they no longer want a domestic terminal but want a single terminal, there is less room for taxis than there was before. It makes these cabs hold and wait all kinds of other places. And there it is that this bill can help to make demands on the airport on how they handle this, so there is room for the taxis that would like to make themselves available to us as passengers. As a passenger you also have the experience that it has become harder to get a hire car than it has been in the past. So in reality, the Conservative People's Party has a great chance both to do something for the environment, but also to make it easier for citizens to get a taxi at the airport and better for the taxi industry to do a good business. So it's kind of a three-in-one thing it's about jumping to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150120	Unfortunately, I was not convinced of the link between the two things, i.e. that there are many taxis out there and that this legislation should remedy the problem. I personally have never experienced any trouble getting a cab at the airport. Compared to the airport there are really many other places in the city and especially other times when you may experience problems in getting a taxi, but I think that is because we have a taxi monopoly, i.e. a limitation on how many people are allowed to drive a taxi, and that there is not enough competition in the taxi area in general, so that the taxis have the option to choose not to drive at inconvenient times. We would very much like to talk about this, but I am not sure that the Socialists are so fond of it, so that we open the door, for example, for more people driving a taxi. But I think that is a completely different issue, and it is certainly not something that will be resolved by this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150208	No one else has asked for the floor. I thank the rapporteur and would like to ask the Minister for Transport to take the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150216	First of all, of course, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. I took note of a few reservations, but nevertheless also of the wish that we might be able to meet during the committee procedure. I would like to make it clear to the whole committee that I would very much like to come to the committee where we can discuss some of these points of view. I think we may have to start somewhere else than today's debate, which is based on the fact that the purpose of the draft law is to ensure free access to and from our airports. There we have to stop and remember that it is a question of whether you are in favour of a free approach, so this is the approach to the airport we are talking about. However, I think there are a number of things that think that we should be able to get to an airport and from an airport without having to pay for access to it alone. We must remember that airports are local monopolies. There is no competition. It is local monopolies that have a monopoly on access to flights. Today, we cannot prevent airports from making the very move to and from the airport to an area where money can be made. Perhaps you could try to think about whether we have other places that you also have to go to and from in order to be transported. In other words, we are not talking about transport at all; we are talking about it alone, whether we can get to and from the place. So an airport can now legally make it a business that people need access to the airport when they, for example, have access to the airport. are going on a flight or they just want to welcome a family member home after a long journey. So the airport can go in there and say that access to the airport alone must be paid for. It is easy to calculate that different forms of direct or indirect payment are likely to be devised, and I just have to say that the bill will of course only be sent in one place: it will make it more expensive to travel for ordinary people and for all those who travel as part of their profession. Let's just remember what it was like I see it, at least that made you get a deal. I ask everyone to remember what happened. It was the case that last year there was a very concrete plan to introduce payment for access to Copenhagen Airport. Back in December last year, you have to remember, there was a very clear plan for how this should be done. An offer of the taxi service was intended to give the winning taxi company the exclusive right to take customers up at the taxi island at the airport. And the airport was about to charge to give this exclusive right. With the bill that we are discussing here today, there are two amendments to the aviation law. First, it is stated that airports must provide free access for the transport of persons to and from their arrival and departure terminals and free parking for at least 15 minutes for private cars. So far, it's not something you have now, but you can be sure of it like this. Secondly, it is then ensured that airports can continue to make traffic management arrangements, i.e. e.g. set up booms and signals to improve access to airports and use of parking facilities. So airports will be able to charge taxi companies and bus companies, but only to cover the direct costs of traffic management arrangements. The payment provision is intended to protect both taxi companies and bus companies as well as their customers. The adoption of the bill is briefly explained by the fact that citizens are assured of a wide range of transport options to and from airports, that airports can improve the use of access routes and residential areas through an efficient organisation of traffic, and that taxi companies, bus companies and their customers are protected from unfair extra bills. So I would just like to conclude by thanking you once again for the positive comments which I hope will also be maintained during the work of the committee to the extent that a broad majority can be formed for the legislative proposal. I heard during the debate here that some people said that it could, of course, also be evaluated when a voluntary scheme had been drawn up. I just want to say that I have the very relaxed approach to it, that I am surprised that a voluntary scheme will only come when you realise that a legislative proposal is on the way. I simply cannot understand why we did not start by setting up a voluntary scheme when that was what we wanted to do. Then it would not have been necessary to start preparing an invitation to tender. But it was actually only after that, when we started saying that there must be free access to these places it came. And I would also like to say that I hope we can also agree that all other places where citizens need access in order to be able to provide some types of traffic must be such that they have free access to those places. Then you can find out for yourself how to make it. We have free competition on air travel and taxi companies etc. But on the issue here, that is to say, having free access to and from these places, I would say that there I think people should be guaranteed. That's one of the things I'm talking about. is the reason for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150746	A few rapporteurs have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150751	I should also like to thank the Minister for the answers that have been given here and also for the tabling of this bill, which there is no doubt that we Socialists think it would be appropriate to have a seat. After all, the Minister starts by stressing that the aim of the bill here is to ensure that there is free access. I can hear that this is something that means a great deal to the Minister, and it does for a great many citizens around. There it is, then, that I cannot help being a resident and elected in Aalborg just to mention to those who are tired and sad to have to pay at Copenhagen Airport, in Billund etc. that it is free to park all over Aalborg Airport, unless you want a special exclusive space right up front in order not to have to go so far. It's just for free. So just come to Aalborg it is the airport where there is the greatest growth and development in terms of flights and other things, and there you are free to pay. So drop Copenhagen and just take a trip to Aalborg there is a really great airport. And I don't have to come back with another question; it was just a feature.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150850	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150854	I can confirm that the last time I was in Aalborg and it was not long ago that the questioner presented it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150859	Then we'll agree on that. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103150902	Thank you. I think it was an interesting and relevant point, as the Minister pointed out, that there should be a voluntary arrangement, in parallel with the fact that the Folketing is rattling with the legislative sabre. I think there's definitely something about that. That interaction may have helped to promote a negotiation out there. But that is not the reason why we need to make the legislation. So you can say that now there is a voluntary arrangement, and then you can put the saber back in the vagina and say that that weapon is drawn another time if it turns out that there was a need. I just think that legislation in itself is an evil and must be kept under control and that one should only resort to it if there is a real need for it. Then the Minister said something very interesting and it was that he thought that everyone should realise that it was good that there was free access to airports. I think everyone can see that, not least the airports themselves, because they are interested in customers coming and that as many as possible can easily get out and use their airport. There it is just again that I am sceptical as to whether there really is a need or some natural interests that make sure this regulates itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151008	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151011	But I fully understand the question put by the questioner, and I would also like to discuss it with the questioner in order to go deeper. What is bothering me all the time in this debate is that this is not a question of if you came to an airport, you could say: no, I think that what they offer at this airport is not attractive, I take the other one. But you can't. You have an airport, so if you want to fly from there, you have to go to that airport. It's not nice. Then we are talking about something with a monopoly, and there we usually agree that when someone has a monopoly on something, we have quite different rules, we go in and look at, and it is just in that light that you have to understand it. At least when I defend the law here, it's because it's a monopoly you have. You can easily start doing business, but if you want to get into that airport, and there's only one, it has to cost it or that. Well, I was a little surprised that you haven't even secured a right for you to drop someone off. But anyway, you could, if it were, devise a plan for how to get an economy in it. The thing about access, I think, is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151118	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151122	That is also true, and it is also the counter-argument in relation to the objection I raise. Absolutely. And there is one thing I would like to clarify here in the legislative process, if there are no other options, for example. If it is not possible to look at it through the Competition Authority and regulate price formation in this way, if it is, as I know, abused, it is not possible to abuse a monopoly position to increase prices very high. And then it can be said that there are also other ways of pressing customers, you can take high prices and airport charges etc., which we do not regulate with this proposal. So I think it's gonna be a little lame.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151159	Well, I think the questioner has a point in it, and I shall not say if anything is a perfect proposal. But when I face it, I still think that the right way is to say: let the competition run where you have to run the competition; that is where there are more of a kind to do something, and I am very, very much in favour of that. I just think that when you start making invitations to tender and say who should win a question about being able to drop off guests or take them with you, you go in and exploit that you have a monopoly, and I don't think you should. So, I think it's gonna be a quick discussion about what tools to use in it, and I don't want to rule out that you could do it in another way, I just think this is the simplest one. But I am happy to have a debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151249	I just need to know if the voluntary agreement that has now been made at Copenhagen Airport can be approved. According to the bill, as far as I know, it must actually be approved. But can it be approved? I'm not aware of all the details of it, but can it be approved under the bill? Fulfills it, for example. the provision that there must be 15 minutes of free parking for private passenger cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151318	Now you have to be careful not to speak out of a platform when you have not even seen the proposal they have made. I've had a meeting with them where we've discussed it. I mean, I think the tactics that are in it are very similar to what is in the bill, but if you send a written question over, I can have the opportunity to check it down in detail. But with the 15 minutes, I have understood that the agreement has also been incorporated into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151340	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151346	When I ask, of course, it is because I have called for an evaluation clause to be included in the draft law. However, I can see that it is a little difficult to see that the only place where this bill really matters is at Copenhagen Airport. There they have set up a voluntary scheme, and it is basically the one that needs to be evaluated, especially if it meets the conditions laid down in the draft law. So that's the way you've gotten that they've hurried a lot over the summer at Copenhagen Airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151417	Well, I have such an overall view of what is that when you knew and that is how I must assume it was that there would be a bill, and then you've been inside and made a voluntary agreement, then I see it as a response to the bill, and therefore I also find it difficult to see that someone can be against it. Because that's basically just what you were in favour of. I hope it is that way, and I will answer it when I get it in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151442	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151449	I took note of the Minister's statement that it was under threat of this bill that it was, as it were, the right thing to do and to make this voluntary agreement. Now I assume that we are some parties here in the Folketing who believe that we have plenty of legislation, that we have plenty of rule-running, that we have plenty of control. It's not what creates value, it's private enterprise. If we are in the situation where the problem is actually solved, will the Minister not help us postpone this for a year, according to what we hear from the Enhedslisten, and let common sense prevail so that we do not go and shoot grey sparrows with guns? Then I think I should also mention the example of the state having its interests taken care of through ownership. Is it not a little more relaxed and a little more political in the Left that this is the way to solve problems rather than bring out the big hammer?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151550	Now I just want to say that I haven't used the word threat. But I'm just saying that there is a coincidence between the fact that, as I see it, you had plans to make a tender back in December 2014, I think, and saw that, as I understand, instead of choosing to make a voluntary agreement. You can then decide with yourself what you think about why this happened. As to how to influence this through your ownership at the airport, as I know the percentage distribution, I don't think that's the way to do it. But I should also like to reply to that in writing, so that we can have it very precisely. I can only say that when such a case is actually relatively simple for me, it is simply because you are dealing here with a monopoly. And I therefore take the view that if it is a monopoly you are dealing with, then I think you have to know that there are also a few other rules. And to start to exploit whether people can basically access your airport, you are allowed to think that you can, and we are then allowed by the government to think that that is not the way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151652	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151655	I understand perfectly well that monopolies, real monopolies, must be dealt with differently. That is what I said in my speech. But now there have been many things at stake. We have heard that Amager is being kept out of control and that there is a problem that there are too many taxis. We've also heard that people can't get a cab. So what is it really, right to the bone, that the state has to do to ensure that there is a natural flow that one does not have today? We've also heard something about some booms that need to go up and down. It is not the case that there should be a ministerial official saying: pigeons are not good? I mean, I'm way down on the operational level, and it's not to be polemical, but it can't be both a problem that we have too many cabs, and a problem that we have too few cabs. And what is it you have to do when you have voluntarily agreed to solve it by means of an agreement with a large taxi company? I also don't understand why it should be an advantage to keep down on Amager and burn off gasoline. You don't do that for fun. I mean, how could the state prevent that? There are a lot of mysterious relationships in this. You can't assume that this is going to solve both the problem of the many taxis and the problem of the few taxis. So there's something here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151814	Can't I just say that we're not dealing with that at all? We don't even assess how many cabs there are or how it is. We only assess whether you use your monopoly to create a revenue company here, and that is why we say that if you have to pay an amount to get into these traffic management lanes and tools that are, it just has to be equal to the cost. So we don't get involved in that at all. I can also say that, following the voluntary agreement, I think that all the taxis are starting to be carried around on the villa roads, because they can no longer hold down at the airport. And I suppose that when you've made a voluntary agreement and have an understanding with each other, you'll get it handled. Well, it's taxis that hold there. But the other thing we're not going into at all. You have to find out for yourself how to do that. We're just looking at the fact that you don't use your position as a monopoly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151902	No one else has asked for brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister for Transport and Building. And since no one else has asked for the floor at all, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. No one objects to that and that is why I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151923	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103151945	Thank you. Denmark has a fundamental interest in the functioning of the EU internal market. This applies regardless of whether you are a worker with a desire for an international career in another EU country or whether you are a Danish company in search of specialists from other EU countries. If the free movement of workers is to work in practice, administrative barriers must be made as affordable as possible. This must be done at the same time as effective control is exercised in Denmark to ensure that foreign workers working in Denmark fully comply with Danish professional standards. At the same time, it is essential that travelling workers do not contribute to social dumping in the host Member State. With L 32, parts of the revised Recognition Directive will be implemented from 2013 to facilitate cross-EU recognition of professional and educational qualifications relevant to the conduct of regulated professions. Specifically, the draft law means, among other things, the introduction of a European Professional Card in the first place for a limited number of regulated professions. The electronic professional passport is a certificate issued on a voluntary basis to workers who wish to work in a regulated profession in another EU country. In the light of IMI, the Internal Market Information System, the business passport must ensure the development of established and electronic procedures for the recognition of professional competences across the EU's borders. At the same time, the occupational passport will allow the worker to start the process of recognition of professional qualifications in the country of origin. However, the final decision on the recognition of qualifications lies with the host Member State. Another positive element of the draft law concerns the introduction of a warning system. The warning system will automatically alert the Member States if people working with children or health have been banned from carrying out their profession. In addition, the warning system will reveal the identity of persons who have committed forgery in the application for recognition of qualifications. It is therefore justified to expect that in future we will see fewer cases where doctors, for example, have been allowed to practise in Denmark unfairly and to the detriment of patient safety. In conclusion, I would like to follow on from, among other things, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. LO's consultation response states that it is important for the Social Democrats that L 32 does not affect Denmark's ability to make demands on health and safety in the labour market, and that L 32 does not change that work in Denmark will continue to take place under Danish conditions. With those comments, I can inform you that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103152221	No one has asked for brief comments, and I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and ask him to do so. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl come up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103152240	Thank you. It is good that we have again started legislative work in the field of education. It is good to see a well-laid minister, good fellow rapporteurs ready for debate. I look forward to debates in the upcoming session on drive reform, dimensioning, taximeters, quality and much more. Today's bill may not give rise to quite as much debate as more of the coming themes. Basically, it is about implementing an EU directive that provides better opportunities to gain recognition of education and thus pursue regulated professions across the EU. It is basically quite fine, of course, that you should not discuss what formal training skills you have in an appointment, but that it is about the competences you have and how you use them. After all, this is about the focus on education, where it takes a license to act, and here it is quite fine that we have control that the doctor, the nurse, the midwife has a formal education which is basically at the level of the Danish. At the same time, it is absolutely essential for the examination of the legislative proposal that it is only about the recognition of the level of education. In addition, of course, it is also important that we can make additional demands, for example. language requirements. The Minister has stated in the consultation comments that language requirements do not fall within this legislation, but for us in the DF it is just extremely important that language requirements can be made and made for example. Doctors and nurses. Therefore, it is also worrying when the Minister informs us that language requirements must not exceed what is necessary and reasonable for the pursuit of the profession. In addition, language checks will be reasonable and necessary for the job concerned and limit knowledge of an official language or, where that language is also one of the official languages of the Union, an administrative language of the host Member State. This might sound very reasonable at first hand, but I would just like an assurance as to how it will be interpreted and used, so we are sure that we can and will make demands on, for example. doctors and nurses that they can also commit themselves in Danish at a reasonable level. It must be quite clear that we need to clarify the requirements for linguistic competences. We need to know what regulated professions in the health sector will be covered by the enhanced language control, as well as the role of the competent authorities and employers in terms of language requirements and language control. In addition, the proposal provides for the possibility of partial recognition of training, i.e.: It is a recognition, even if one only partially meets the training requirements. It is worrying for us if it is used, for example. Doctors. Who would want to be treated by a partially trained doctor? The Minister states that some access to a profession may be refused if there are compelling reasons of general interest recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union, including public health and safety. It is up to each authority for the respective profession to assess whether such considerations exist. Partial access is granted on a case-by-case basis. That is why we need to know how to interpret and use compelling general considerations. Could you, for example, do that? develop common requirements and guidelines applicable to all authorities for the application of partial recognition, including an interpretation of overriding public interest? But with those words, if we get this properly described and insured, DF will be able to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103152614	No one has asked for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. The next in the line of speakers is Mr. Hans Christian Thoning.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103152628	Thank you. On behalf of Anni Matthiesen, I shall address the following rapporteur: the draft law is to implement parts of the revised EU directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. Overall, the directive allows a national of a Member State of the European Union to pursue a regulated profession in a Member State other than that in which his professional qualifications have been acquired. A citizen of the Union is, as a rule, qualified to pursue a regulated profession in another EU country if he or she is qualified to pursue the profession in his or her country of origin. The aim of the draft law is to modernise the system for the recognition of professional qualifications in order to make it easier and more flexible to apply for recognition for EU citizens who wish to pursue a regulated profession in another EU country. In concrete terms, the draft law includes, among other things: the following new measures: the introduction of a new European Professional Card; a review of the scope of regulated professions in the Member States; new rules allowing graduates to obtain recognition of a traineeship from another Member State; the introduction of rules for partial recognition for the pursuit of regulated professions; the introduction of common training principles; the introduction of a warning system for the disqualification of the right to practise a profession and the use of falsified documentation; the compulsory use of the internal market information system; a focused advisory and guidance function, including the extension of the points of single contact of the Services Directive; If I am to highlight one of the new measures, there is the proposal to introduce a warning system for all professions whose actions can affect patient safety and those involved in child education. If a person has been prohibited from exercising his profession, even temporarily, a warning will be sent to the other Member States. This should ensure continued consumer protection and patient safety in relation to the mobility of workers. As I said earlier, the draft law makes it easier for EU citizens to have professional qualifications recognised to work in a regulated profession in other Member States. This increases the free movement of workers in these professions. This will facilitate companies' access to qualified labour from other EU countries, and EU citizens will more easily find employment in these professions in another EU country. The proposal will strengthen the internal market and thus create growth and jobs. With these words, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103152910	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The word is herewith, sir. Finn Sørensens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103152921	Thank you. I've been allowed to interfere in education policy. The draft law implements parts of the recognition directive, which were revised in 2013. The unitary list is very critical of this directive, as was the trade union movement. The directive is based on the principle that the Member States must mutually recognise the training and qualifications of the other Member States in the exercise of a number of regulated professions, and we have a great many of them here in Denmark. A quick exercise on Google showed that we have 119. I have come up with this, and it is all from the conduct of scaffolding, asbestos demolition, building installations and a number of health professions to lawyers and accountants, etc. etc. In other words, a large number of professions in which we have found it necessary to regulate the qualifications required to carry out the professions. However, the directive means that we, like Parliament and the Danish authorities, are losing influence on which training and professional qualifications should be able to provide access to the relevant professions in this country. Instead, it is left to the European Union and even to the Commission to draw up and adjust the lists of training and qualifications to be recognised in the Member States on a regular basis. It is quite contrary to a fundamental principle that the rules of the host country should apply. This entails a risk of lowering education standards, which can also have consequences for environmental and occupational standards and consumer safety, etc. We therefore very much agree with the LO, which concluded in January 2012 in its consultation response to the directive that the directive promotes the possibility of social dumping and limits the self-determination of the nation states and the involvement of the social partners. It is a consultation answer to which the LO refers and essentially repeats in its consultation response to this bill. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the LO's consultation response, which points out that a very large proportion of foreigners who come to Denmark to work in the construction sector are registered as self-employed and can therefore be exempted from prior checking of their qualifications. This relaxation of the rules favours foreign labour at the expense of Danish and opens up social dumping. This can have drastic consequences for the safety of construction sites, which are already a sector with a high risk to the health and safety of workers. I fully agree with the LO's assessments of this. In addition, the directive means buying the cat in the bag and getting exactly the same problem that we have in other areas where we leave it to the European Union to regulate on the basis of so-called mutual recognition. There is, in fact, no one except the Commission itself who has an overview of the state of law and practice in the 28 Member States as far as this whole problem is concerned. We have no idea what kind of education and qualifications we might be forced to recognise, by the way. The legislative proposal we are discussing here today only implements parts of the recognition directive, but it does, of course, pose the same problems in relation to the issues being dealt with. We must recognise traineeships from another Member State; we must recognise partial access to professional activities in regulated professions on a qualification basis which would otherwise not be legal in Denmark. We must recognise evidence of formal qualifications obtained on the basis of so-called common principles of education. Finally, there are legal security problems with the proposal, as it involves a breach of existing Danish rules that information on criminal offences cannot be disclosed without the consent of the person concerned. I note, of course, that when it comes to the partial recognition of professional qualifications, we can reject it on grounds of overriding public interest, that is to say the general interest, for example. health and that sort of thing. That sounds very good, but it means that it is ultimately up to the European Court of Justice to decide whether such a refusal is contrary to the rules of free movement. There is certainly no positive experience in this respect. Here one can only look at the Laval judgment, in which the Court stated that the reference to general considerations could not be used as a reason for the Swedish construction workers' conflict with the Lithuanian firm Laval being legal. As you know, the Court of Justice ruled the conflict illegal, among other things. on the grounds that it restricted freedom of movement. A great deal needs to be done before the Court makes reference to the general good for good goods when it comes to free movement. Here it is usually the consideration of so-called economic freedoms such as the free movement of capital, labour, goods and services that wins. We still have the merit of seeing what the specific consequences will be for a large number of regulated professions, but it is more than enough that in this way we reduce the possibilities of deciding for ourselves in this area. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103153425	No one has asked for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I'd like to ask Sir. Henrik Dahl to take the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103153438	Thank you. The discussions on the legal reservation could give rise to the view that the Liberal Alliance is an anti-EU party, but we are not against all the actions of the European Union and all the nature of the European Union. The bill with the very unheroic name, the law on the recognition of certain educational and professional qualifications, tells why. It is common sense to introduce a European Professional Card. It is common sense to simplify the process when for example. nurses or physiotherapists seek work in other EU or EEA countries. It is common sense to work towards more automatic recognition of general education. It's for example. Doctors and dentists have common sense to have a set of minimum requirements which accompany the professional development in these subjects. It is common sense to recognise foreign placements. And it is common sense to strengthen the protection of patients and consumers with a warning system. Finally, it should be noted that the proposal has an objective or a declaration of intent to work for deregulation, where it makes sense, without compromising on, for example, the environment. the protection of patients and consumers. It is a project that the Liberal Alliance is very much looking forward to experiencing bear fruit. Are there not disadvantages to the proposal? Yeah, you don't quite avoid them. There is an administrative practice that is even more complex than what we have today with the internal market information system. Then there is the eternal question of data security for sensitive information. Here it is important not to be led to believe that the end justifies the means. We must focus our attention on the individual's right to privacy in the committee's work. All in all, however, it is a good and practical legislative proposal that promotes the free movement of workers and makes everyday life easier, both for many individuals and for many companies. We support this in the Liberal Alliance, and we look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103153647	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103153658	Thank you. As has been said a few times, we are dealing with L 32, where the intention is to review and modernise the system for the recognition of professional qualifications by Member States, so that it becomes less burdensome for EU citizens who are fully qualified to pursue a regulated profession in a Member State. In the alternative, we appreciate that this bill will make it easier for qualified foreigners to gain recognition for the qualifications they have with them from home when they come to Denmark and carry out a profession or an internship. The mobility and diversity and learning across borders that the bill supports, we see as a great advantage, not just for Danish business, but for Danish social life at all. The comments to the draft law state that the purpose of this bill is to strengthen the internal market and the free movement of workers within the EU for jobs and growth creation. I would really like it to have been said that the intention was to strengthen social sustainability in society, because what is important when it comes to getting to Denmark and getting a job is that not only do you help a foreigner to get a job by making it easier, but it also strengthens Danish business and social sustainability in the workplace when we mix different cultures and different competences and different experiences. For the alternative is the international exchange of jobs and qualifications: it is not just about creating economic growth; it is about more than that: it is also about perspective, it is about diversity, and not least about global citizenship. Finally, I would like to make one comment on the fact that this is, of course, a legislative proposal within the European Union. We would like the government to also work to make it easier for citizens coming from outside the EU to Denmark to get, what can be said, recognised and accepted the competences and qualifications that they have with them. And, of course, I am thinking in particular of, among other things. the many Syrian refugees who come to Denmark, well-educated and with very good qualifications and competences, and which we should very much help to get a foot in the Danish labour market, both for their sake and to a great extent for their integration, but also especially for us Danes and for the Danish jobs, so that we promote cultural diversity. The alternative sees this bill as a step in the right direction, and we can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103153955	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154004	Thank you very much. It sounds like a very technical legislative proposal when you look at the fact that we now have to implement a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, but it is really a very, very important purpose because it helps to ensure that we can have access to qualified foreign labour within Europe, but indeed also in Denmark. Why do we need it now? Well, it is such that if we look at how many people there are in Denmark to pay the bills, to go to work, to make sure that there is labour in our companies, we have actually become 74,000 fewer to pay the bills just since 2008. So if we go back seven years and compare, there are now 74,000 fewer people who go to work and pay the bills. And that means that we actually really need hands, smart heads, people who come here with an education and can help us pay the bills. Recently I visited Herning Business Council. They had asked their companies what the main problems were and this year it had turned for them. No. 1 for companies was a shortage of skilled labour and the need to recruit foreign labour. So for Danish companies, it is also crucial that they can access people with high education, and that is what this is supposed to help with. Why is it that it is good for Denmark? Yes, every time 1,000 people with a longer education take a job in Denmark, they create 1.3 billion. kr. to the Treasury, they bring 500 Danes into the labour force, they contribute with new knowledge, new technology, a new organization. So we must also ensure in Denmark that it is interesting to come here, interesting to be here, interesting to work here. Then I would say that if you are in doubt, if it is true what I am saying, you can ask Danish Industry or LO if you want to go to the other side, which has recently said that we need foreign labour. Then there are various concerns in this which I think it is worth listening to and discussing, but overall it is important for the Radical Left that we can recruit highly trained foreign workers and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154218	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154224	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur referred to the LO, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has read the LO's consultation response to this bill and also the LO's consultation response when we dealt with the directive in the Committee on European Affairs, and whether the rapporteur can then confirm that the LO, like everyone else, or at least most, believes that foreign labour should be welcome in this country, but that it should be on equal terms and that the LO sees a clear danger in the directive and in this bill exactly in relation to that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154301	Yes, I can confirm that, as has also been said here from the platform, and I am quite sure that Enhedslisten will do all they can to get the drill into the legislative work, although they have proclaimed that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154320	I just couldn't hear the last sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154322	No, but you could ask that now. Sir. Finn Hylllested, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154326	Yeah, now I'm Sørensen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry!). Now, sir. Henning Hyllested isn't the worst one can be confused with, so I'm gonna survive it, and hopefully he feels the same way with me. Can the rapporteur confirm that the LO clearly warns against the directive and is opposed to this proposal for a directive on the grounds that it promotes social dumping and precisely counteracts the consideration that everyone says they want to take, namely that foreign workers in this country should work on equal terms with Danish workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154359	Yes, I can confirm that is in the LO's consultation answer, but I also think it is very important to have the overall objective in mind, namely that we should have foreign labour to Denmark and that, in the concern to lower Danish standards, we should be careful that at the same time we do not get all foreigners counted out in a situation where they appear as some who come to do social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154419	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154437	Thank you. In SF we basically have the feeling that we do not believe that in the future in Denmark we can do everything alone. In fact, we believe that we will need outside help. This is true in several contexts, but basically in terms of securing the workforce needed in order to be able to lift Denmark within a number of different professions. As the previous speaker said, it is the case that, in a large number of professions, we lack skilled labour. We lack specialised labour, and what you can see right now is that in Europe there is a high level of unemployment and, elsewhere, much lower unemployment. You will be able to straighten this out by introducing this law, which says: You can take your qualifications with you from one place to the next. On the whole, we think it is the case that when you look at people and think that they have obtained a qualification in the country from which they come, it is fair that they can take that qualification up here with them. In other words, when they come up to Denmark and tell them that they have these qualifications and that they have gotten them by training at home where they come from, there is something quite natural in that they can use them here. The same is true when you are educated in Denmark, so when you leave temporarily, you can say: I have these qualifications from Denmark, and I would like to be recognised for them, because they count as much as those you have in the country to which I have now gone. So we kind of think there's a naturalness in this bill. We have also read the consultation note and the consultation answers and are also concerned about whether these professional rights are being respected, so that is one of the things we will be aware of in the consultation process. In other words, we agree to this on the condition that there is respect for Danish professional and disciplinary rights. I do read that the LO has reservations. I also read that for example. FTF has reservations, but I also read that they say that it is really, really important that we work across borders. Given the reasonableness of taking your qualifications with you from country to country, but also provided that the country's agreements and trade union rights are respected, the SF is working positively on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154656	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154701	Thank you. First of all, I have to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that there is too little foreign labour in this country. It almost sounds like it. Secondly, I have to ask the rapporteur whether he will admit that the consequence of the directive and the legislative proposal is that we cannot question the quality of the training and qualifications carried by foreign workers in the regulated professions that this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154728	I think it is rather a rhetorical question to ask whether we have enough trained labour or whether we do not have enough. Well, in some sectors we certainly have a shortage of skilled labour, and in other sectors we certainly have plenty. I feel that it is more reasonable, namely that if you have some qualifications from one country and come to another country, you should be able to take those qualifications with you. I will also be able to say as a student in Denmark: I am now going to another country, and the qualifications I acquire there, I must then be allowed to use somewhere else and have recognition for. So it is so from a reasonable point of view. In fact, I believe that in the future, in a number of industries, Denmark will be able to discuss what it is for some industries to need specialized labour from outside. I would like to see Danes also trained, so that we have the skills in Denmark that are needed. But I also believe that we will need outside help.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154822	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154825	After all, I think that we are getting a lot of help from the European Union when it comes to foreign labour. So there I think we look at it quite differently. However, on the content of which I would ask the rapporteur to consider whether it is whistle-blowing, whatever it is for qualifications, and what quality there is in the training that foreign workers bring to this country when they have to carry out a regulated profession. It is, of course, professions that we have decided here in the Danish Parliament that must be regulated. Education and qualifications must be required because we believe that this is good for society as a whole. But this bill does mean that we cannot ask questions, that we cannot overrule the training that foreign workers bring with them. If the rapporteur then praises that principle, then it must be because the rapporteur thinks it does not matter. So it is fine that any education in any EU country can just be used here, even if it is contrary to Danish rules previously in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103154922	In fact, this is not how I see the proposal, but of course I would like to be wiser in the committee process. But as we read it, it is still absolutely crucial, and it is also for us that the workers who come to the country should follow Danish agreements. In other words, we will never support social dumping; we will never support proposals that do not comply with Danish agreements. This isn't gonna change that either. As we also read the proposal, it will not reduce quality. That is precisely why it is regulated. The people who are going to need this labor in Denmark can still ask if this labor is good enough. They can still ask if there is quality in the work these people have to offer. However, as I also said, we will not be supporting this proposal if it is our overall assessment that it will weaken the professional rights in Denmark. But that is not immediately my assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155009	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And the word is now given to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155022	I have been allowed to put forward the conservative position on behalf of our rapporteur, Mrs Mai Mercado. I would like to say that the aim of the bill here is, of course, to provide consumer protection and patient safety through a warning system, so that if a person has been banned from exercising his profession, a warning will be sent to all Member States. And that's good because we're one of them. should be able to avoid that Danish doctors who have had their authorisation withdrawn in Sweden or Norway end up treating further in Denmark to the detriment of patients. When you receive treatment in Denmark, it should be safe and secure. It is not to be feared that he or she has the right qualifications and competences that are required. This applies both to Danes who have worked abroad, and also to foreigners who have taken employment in Denmark. At the same time, the directive will allow employers across national borders to recruit qualified workers from elsewhere in the European Union, and we believe that this will provide better mobility across Europe's borders. The Conservative People's Party can therefore support the proposal as a starting point, but in committee we will ask why the government has opted for an over-implementation of the directive, so that it applies not only to the EU and EEA countries but also to other countries in addition.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155157	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155209	Thank you for that and thank you for the good debate we have had on the legislative proposal. The draft law implements parts of the revised recognition directive, and, as has also emerged from the debate, the aim is to modernise the system for the recognition of professional qualifications in order to make it easier and more flexible to apply for recognition for EU citizens who wish to pursue a regulated profession in another EU country. This is particularly beneficial to Danish business, as it makes it easier to attract skilled labour, as the radical rapporteur also mentioned. In addition, Danes wishing to try their luck in another country can more easily gain recognition of their qualifications in this country. It is central to the government that, with the new rules, we can also be confident about the qualifications that foreigners bring to this country. The requirements for access to a profession are not weakened. They are the same, and you still have to be fully qualified, but it will be less bureaucratic to apply for it. Unfortunately, we have recently seen a number of cases with doctors who should not be able to work in Denmark because they have not been qualified to do their job. The draft law introduces a warning system to prevent non-qualified health professionals and persons working with minors from continuing to work if they have been denied the right to pursue the profession in question. We have a clear interest in preventing more such cases. In addition, the draft law contains a number of other measures which will help to create a more flexible recognition system. This concerns, among other things: on the European Professional Card and on the Transparency Initiative, which means that Denmark and the other Member States have to review and explain the regulation of the regulated professions in the Member States. The aim is to deregulate access to the profession whenever possible and to simplify and modernise the rules. Overall, I believe that the draft law creates a more flexible system of recognition without compromising on the requirements for certain professions in Denmark. In relation to what was addressed by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on the language section and the like, I would like to refer to the committee procedure. There will also be parts of what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party touched on, which concern the area of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly, and we will, of course, respond to this through the committee procedure. With regard to the aspect raised by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur in several of his questions, it is quite simple that it is precisely the competence of the Member States to lay down rules for access to the profession. So there will be no question of the concerns raised by the Enhedslisten rapporteur. I am therefore grateful for the debate and look forward to the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155443	One person has signed up for a brief remark. It's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155449	Thank you to the Minister for his presentation and thank you for addressing my concerns as well. I think we shall also return to them in the work of the committee. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm what the draft law says, namely that persons who are nationals of a Member State have the right to pursue a regulated profession in Denmark and to practise that profession under the same conditions as those with Danish professional qualifications if they fulfil the conditions laid down in the recognition directive. I think the Minister can nod to that. I'm just reading it out, just like putting things in a little relief, because I suppose the Minister agrees that this bill is based on the principle of mutual recognition of education and training qualifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155530	I can confirm the first, as Mr. Finn Sørensen was reading. And then I can just stress that it is the competence of the Member States to lay down these rules, and that is why the government does not carry around a concern about that aspect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155541	Sir. Finn Sørensen? No. Then no one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor at all, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155602	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155618	Thank you, President. The vast majority of Danes spend much of their lives on the labour market, and future generations must stay on the labour market even longer than what we see today. For the Socialists, it is therefore essential that we make demands on the conditions under which they work. You shouldn't get sick from going to work. It's as simple as that. On the contrary, it must be safe, safe and healthy to go to work in Denmark. That is why we in the Socialist Group are also pleased that in the spring, when we had government responsibility, a broad agreement was reached on a strengthened work on working conditions which we can then deal with in the Folketing now. With the bill, we follow up on the part of the agreement on a strengthened health and safety effort, which among other things. concerns that we increase the number of supervision of companies with the biggest health and safety problems. That means that 80%. the supervision is targeted at those enterprises which have the greatest problems in relation to accidents at work, as well as mental and physical overloads. And we are following up on that part of the agreement which says that a bad working environment must not under any circumstances be a competitive parameter, which is why we are raising the fines for the serious violations of health and safety legislation and allowing us to publish the names of those companies that grossly violate the rules. It must strengthen the work environment and ensure that more Danes have a good, long and safe working life. The draft law is therefore moving in the right direction in order to ensure a better working environment. The government's financial law doesn't, however. Here the government is setting up to cut 140 posts or as much as 20%. of the Labour Inspectorate's budget. It is extremely violent and will particularly affect preventive work on health and safety, for example. in relation to violence at work and the implementation of supervision in the particularly worn-out sectors. It does not create a safer, safer and healthier working environment. We are therefore deeply concerned about the consequences of the government's announced savings in this area. We know that the way forward is to invest in a healthy and secure labour market, especially if we are to achieve the goal of reducing the number of accidents and congestion by 2020. That is why, during our reign, we gave priority to preventing physical and psychological wear and retention in the labour market. Of course, the social democracy supports the bill because it brings us in the right direction in relation to a better working environment, but, on the other hand, we are concerned about the consequences of the cuts that the government is proposing because it is moving in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155904	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103155913	The draft law intends to ensure that an agreement on the work on health and safety is now implemented or at least part of it. The agreement was concluded in March 2015 by a majority of the Danish Parliament's parties. It was the Left, it was the Social Democrats, it was the Radicals, it was the Conservatives, and it was the Danish People's Party. The work and supervision of the Factory Inspectorate are more targeted by this bill than by those companies where the risk of occupational health and safety problems is greatest. Companies are selected on the basis of a risk assessment and supervision in companies that often have problems with working conditions is increased from 55%. 80 per cent. With this bill, we are also tightening up the penalties for breaches of health and safety laws. The level of fines shall be increased where there are aggravating or particularly aggravating circumstances. For the many people affected by an accident at work each year, this can have major and far-reaching consequences. In the Danish People's Party we believe that the working environment should be taken very, very seriously. With higher fines for companies' non-compliance with applicable legislation, we are sending a strong signal from the Folketing that we will not tolerate the fact that employees' safety and health at work are being seriously ignored as an employer. As something new, it will also be possible to differentiate the fines according to the size of the company. The area for which an offence may be considered as a particularly aggravating circumstance shall be extended so that it is considered to be particularly aggravating in the future if several persons have been exposed to harm to life or health or danger thereof, or that the natural or legal person has been punished within four years in the past for serious violations of health and safety legislation. In other words, in this area we are also increasing the penalties for existing labour protection rules. The bill also makes it possible for companies that grossly violate the rules to be published on the Labour Inspectorate's website as a kind of public gaggle stick. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that this can in itself be a motivational factor for managing the working environment in the companies. It is, and remains, the employer's responsibility to ensure the health and safety of employees in the workplace, and in the Danish People's Party we therefore see it as quite good that the penalty or fine level, if you like, is tightened up for serious breaches of the labour protection rules. With the 2020 work environment strategy, ambitious targets have been set in three areas: 25 per cent. less serious accidents at work; 20 per cent. less mentally overloaded; 20%. less with muscle and skeletal overloads. The bill, which we are discussing here, contains the measures that will lead us to achieve the important objectives of employees' safety and health at work, and in the Danish People's Party we can recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160255	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160301	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for supporting the bill here. I think it is important that we are a broad circle of conciliation to ensure the working environment in Denmark, and I would like to sign for that. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that I listened to the rapporteur's speech and could hear that the Danish People's Party really takes the working environment seriously and wants the targets we have set in the 2020 plan to be achieved. So I would like to ask about the position of the Danish People's Party. The government is now putting forward a bill with one hand, and we are implementing it here, and at the same time it goes in with the other hand and cuts the Labour Inspectorate by 140 posts, which are precisely targeted at preventing accidents at work and wear and tear which are actually taking place in the workplace. What is the position of the Danish People's Party that the government has put forward such a financial bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160356	As Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen says that we in the Danish People's Party are very interested in working conditions in the companies, and that is also why we are in the broad agreement reached here in March on the work environment. It is really, really positive that something is happening. Having said that, however, we in the Danish People's Party, as the rapporteur said, have also noted that some changes have been made by the government in relation to the Labour Inspectorate; at least this is on the government's proposal for the future Finance Act. What the financial law agreement will finally look like is something that we can only speculate about right now, but in the Danish People's Party we are at least aware of the part of the government's financial bill which deals with the Danish Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160447	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160450	I'm really glad to hear that. In my view, the reality is that we can set all the targets for 2020 that we can imagine, but if we want to achieve that in relation to the number of accidents at work, in relation to wear and tear, in relation to counteracting poor mental health and safety at work, then it is simply necessary that efforts are intensified. We can see that from the mid-term measurements that we have now received. So I would like to sign that the Danish People's Party is watching this. We do the same ourselves when we have the opportunity to sit at the table. I would just like to say that I would suggest that the Danish People's Party should stick so that we can make sure that the objectives we have actually set ourselves are also achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160533	It is true that the Factory Inspectorate here is an important piece in solving some health and safety problems in the companies, but we must also remember that it is first and foremost and I am quite sure that everyone in here agrees with me that employers themselves have a huge responsibility to ensure that you as an employee do not get hurt at the workplace or that your health is otherwise affected when you are in the labour market. This is incredibly important, because we have to be in the labour market and in the workplace for a very, very long time. So it is incredibly important that safety and health are under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160613	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160616	Thank you. The rapporteur praised the 2020 plan, and I shall not prevent her from doing so. However, some time ago we had a consultation with the Minister for Employment, in which he acknowledged that the objectives might not be ambitious enough in all areas, but he refused that partial plans could be made for the various industries. The background was that we were discussing construction sites, and the construction industry is one of Denmark's most dangerous industries...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... would be a very, very small reduction compared to the number of industries involved. They are extremely dangerous and there is an extremely poor working environment in many of those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160657	I didn't really see it as a question, but I can give Mr. Christian Juhl is right in saying that the effort in relation to the various industries must and can be different, because there is also a difference in how dangerous the different industries are. What I'm reading from this bill that we're dealing with today is that the Labour Inspectorate has to target 80% of this bill. of their supervision those companies where health and safety problems are greatest. And without wishing to predict the future, I have an idea that it will certainly be in those sectors where, according to statistics etc. is most dangerous to work because we know that, among other things. As far as agriculture is concerned, and so on, as Mr. Christian Juhl also mentioned that the work of the Labour Inspectorate will take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160755	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160757	Well then I don't understand because that's what was in my comment... why on earth you haven't finished the work and finished it instead of just making some headlines, that is to say started the long-term work towards 2020 and said: Now we're doing a lot of work and putting extra labour into it here, now we're finding some money, also to make campaigns where you can inform employers and for that matter also the health and safety representatives and perhaps even train them. These are just headlines. That is why the Minister for Employment failed, because he could see that it did not last at all when we talked about concrete work on a construction site.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160834-2	It is true that if we are to prevent accidents at work and accidents at work in Denmark, we need to work with a broad range of measures from legislators and authorities. So I'm gonna give that to mr. Christian Juhl is right that you have to watch. As to what will happen in relation to the strategy itself, we in the Danish People's Party are at least open to see if there is a need for adjustments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160909	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103160920	Thank you, President. L 31 brings about the very broad agreement of March 2015 on a strengthened health and safety effort. It was the previous government in collaboration with the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party that concluded the agreement. The aim is for more people in Denmark to have a good and longer working life. The agreement means, among other things, that in future the Factory Inspectorate will have to monitor even more companies with the greatest risk of health and safety problems and less supervision of companies that have control over the working environment. Specifically, the proportion of companies selected for supervision, because they often have problems with working conditions, is increased from 55%. 80% and 20% at the same time. the establishments continue to be selected for inspection by means of a sample so that no one can be sure of avoiding controls. The agreement contains initiatives to a large extent. I'm gonna hit a couple of them. There must be more supervision of companies with the biggest health and safety problems. More information must be counted when an undertaking is selected for supervision and supervision must be carried out where the work is carried out. New start-ups must have oversight in the past, and health and safety certified companies with problems can now also be supervised. There will also be better control of health and safety certification. The Factory Inspectorate and Industry Working Environment Councils must coordinate their efforts, and attempts must be made to notify risk-based supervision. And last but not least, it is still very, very important that bad working conditions should never become a competitive parameter and that no one should get sick from going to work. So if you violate, you are also punished. Supervision of companies that violate the rules is tightened and breaches of health and safety rules are more quickly followed up. There are rules for cooperation on safety and health, which are also being tightened up. I am aware that the roles of the parties in this conciliation will also be strengthened and that we will be much more obliged to the parties to take greater responsibility for the working environment. That is why this agreement and this law are a good and important step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161204	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161209	Thank you to the rapporteur, but I would now like to say that I have not noticed where the rules for cooperation on safety and health have been tightened up. On the contrary, in the last 15 years they have been weakened, and the old safety representative is now the health and safety representative and has a very, very weak position at work. However, I would like to hear the rapporteur's view that, with one hand, a new strategy is being put in place and with the other hand, 20% is being fired. of the people of the Factory Inspectorate. How's that gonna go up? It can't even make up for each other. After all, we do not get people for the unannounced visits, for where you need more guidance, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161247	I would say that the very, very short answer would be that no people have been fired in the Labour Inspectorate. That would be the very, very short answer that no people have been fired in the Labour Inspectorate. So what the rapporteur has to say is that there is currently a financial law process and it is running, but no one knows how such a financial law process ends. If the rapporteur recalls the time when the rapporteur's party was a support party, where additional resources came to the Labour Inspectorate, it was not included in the government's financial bill, but still managed to have some more inspectors negotiated into the Labour Inspectorate. So I can say there's no one fired in the Labour Inspectorate. There is a financial law process going on and it will be far too early to predict how it can end up. But the rapporteur's party can, of course, go along with the financial law process and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161339	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161341	The latter requires that you be invited at all. It is no shame to stay away if you have not been invited to any negotiations at all. However, I would like to say that the draft budget says that in 2015 you will have 694 employees and in 2018 you will have 543 employees. That is, of course, very specific. These aren't just random considerations. Does this mean that the rapporteur agrees with me that it would be a scandal to make such drastic cuts to the staffing of the Labour Inspectorate as is stated in the draft Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161415	No, it will not be a scandal, and it will not be for the simple reason that if the rapporteur has read the draft law and I assume that the rapporteur has, because I also know the rapporteur as a very, very diligent and skilful rapporteur, he will see that we are targeting supervision here. In other words, we are taking on those companies and controlling those who have the challenges of working conditions, and the number of samples is being reduced, so in this case goals and means are linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161445	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161448	You could say that what we decide with this bill is about what happens when the damage has happened... what you discover when you get out and the damage has happened. However, what has been proposed in the draft budget by the government is that what is concerned with preventive work should be removed, i.e. that the initiatives taken to prevent, for example. violence in the workplace, and in order to prevent wear and tear, is being eliminated. Does the rapporteur not think that this is the wrong way to go where the whip comes only where the damage has been done, rather than preventing the damage from happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161529	Now this settlement is based on another settlement, and that settlement will not be tampered with. That is all that is next to it which is likely to be tampered with if the budget bill goes through as it now stands. And there was also preventive work in it. I think the rapporteur will remember the so-called prevention packages. In addition, we are at the forefront of the working environment, both in the employer's responsibility, in the BARs and in the work and teaching that is being done at AMU centres and vocational schools. So I absolutely do not think that the working environment is sailing, in any way. However, I think that what the rapporteur has to think about before the rapporteur bites me too hard in the hassle is that what I am now being reproached by the rapporteur for will be removed if the budget bill is adopted, after all, was something that another party negotiated into a financial law. It did not come from the rapporteur's own party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161633	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161635	But that does not change the fact that the Prevention Fund has existed since we had the withdrawal reform years ago and that the funds in the Prevention Fund should be used to prevent a poor working environment out there; to prevent wear and tear, to prevent occupational injuries; to prevent accidents and to prevent people dying at work. That's what the money's for. The situation we are in now, with the draft budget that has been presented and which is being negotiated, I understand that all the money is disappearing, that is to say, all the money left is disappearing. That means that we are talking about in the vicinity of 400 million. kr. that disappears into thin air, but is set aside to do prevention with. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that this is a sensible way of making finance laws and making health and safety policy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161722	I mean, I can easily stand up for what we have been sitting and negotiating in that March conciliation. I also hope that the rapporteur is aware that both the parties in the process, but also subsequently, will play a much greater role. Of course there must be advice on the working environment, and of course there must be information, but I also believe that we will get a lot of these things done, by the fact that the BARs will play a slightly different role, and by the fact that the parties have been further involved. So I think this is one of the stepping stones for us to have a better working environment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161758	Then there are a number of brief comments. We thank the rapporteur on the Left and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that's Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103161821	Thank you. After all, as has been mentioned here, the draft law deals with four tightenings of the Working Conditions Act. This is very much needed. 40,000 accidents, 20,000 occupational illnesses each year are far too large figures for a small labour market such as the Danish one. It costs society more than 64 billion. kr. in sickness benefit, treatment, pension and loss of production, not to mention the more intolerable amounts, namely pain and suffering suffered by those affected and, in some cases, loss of breadwinners when people die in Danish jobs. There is real money and suffering to be saved by strengthening preventive action. The first proposal in the draft law is to better target risk-based supervision. We have therefore had a period of risk-based supervision, but now we would say that 80%. must be taken for this kind of supervision. However, they must be notified one month before they are held. However, we do not know whether risk-based supervision works. Does that mean more or less commands? Does this mean more or less fines? Does this change the ability of companies to solve health and safety problems themselves? We don't know. In particular, we do not know when to look at this in the context of the government's serious cuts in the number of employees of the Labour Inspectorate. There I am afraid that the adoption by the authorities of everything else on equal terms will be weakened, and that will be a weakening of the level of employment. In the draft budget put forward by the government, they will cut 20%. • 20 per cent by the Labour Inspectorate; • 20 per cent by the Labour Inspectorate; • 20 per cent by the Labour Inspectorate; • 20 per cent by the Labour Inspectorate; • 20 per cent by the Labour Inspectorate; • 20 per cent by the Labour Inspectorate; • 20 per cent by the Labour Every fifth person in the Labour Inspectorate gets kicked out or is allowed to leave. It's pretty serious. Then you can have quite ambitious plans for the effort up to 2020, but if you remove some of the groundwork, it also means that the other efforts made by the Danish Labour Inspectorate will be weakened. The unannounced visits, which, in my opinion, are very, very important, are really something that makes something almost impossible to achieve. The visits where you just want to know whether the health and safety representative has basic knowledge about things and how the organisation itself works also disappear with this process initiated by the government and the parties behind it. I find it boring to polish the facade, but empty the house of content. The second is that the names of companies under enhanced supervision by the Danish Labour Inspectorate will be published on the Danish Labour Inspectorate's website at the same place as the Smiley Scheme. It is quite excellent in itself. Then you can see who the bandits are, who can neither do nor will do anything about the working environment. Thirdly, the legislative proposal is to tighten up the penalties for breaches of the Working Conditions Act. In practice, it is a matter of fine penalties, as no penalty has yet been given for violation of the Working Conditions Act. It is also stressed that repetition of infringements is an aggravating circumstance. I welcome that. The same applies to the size of the company. From the perspective of Enhedslisten, there are very cautious increases in fines to risk the lives and health of others at work. We are surprised that the basic fine has not been lifted in the draft law, and it is striking that detention has not yet been applied in the Danish courts when a worker has been killed because of a poor working environment. This part of the law should be tightened up. Finally, a penalty should be introduced for repeated serious violations of the Working Conditions Act, in which the employer and, where appropriate, the supervisor may be deprived of the right to operate and to be a manager. That would be quite reasonable, given the penalties we have for molesting or damaging the lives and health of others in other areas of society. The last thing that the draft law contains is that the company's workplace assessment on electromagnetic radiation must be made public. There I agree with those who have said in the comments that it is not only about the interest of neighbours in the knowledge of electromagnetic radiation, but also subcontractors, employees, temporary workers and their trade unions. All in all, I have to say that the four proposals are sensible tightening up of the Law on Working Conditions, but they are not enough if we are to seriously cut into the annual new accidents and work-related illnesses. That is why we are giving notice to a number of amendments to the bill and are ready to negotiate and now I do not see the rapporteur of the Left, who is sitting there both on this bill and on the Finance Act, if anyone wants to negotiate with us in that context. I am quite sure that we can meet with a number of proposals that really improve the working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162315	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162319	Thank you. Now I think the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten says that it is largely the employer who is responsible for the working environment. It is also in the letter of the legislation, but it might be a bit exciting to hear whether the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten has the same high level of ambition when it comes to workers, as the rapporteur stressed here in the rapporteur's speech. If a worker repeatedly breaks the Law on Working Conditions, even if various personal protective measures are available, should such a worker also be able to feel higher fines? Should he also have the opportunity to get a booklet? So you want him to be named and shamed on a website, too? It could be exciting to hear what Enhedslisten thinks about where employer responsibility is. That is all, of course, but as a worker, is it not also a responsibility to ensure your own working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162429	Yes, it is, and therefore it is also possible with the current Working Conditions Act to impose a fine or another penalty for employees who violate the Working Conditions Act. But I would like to draw your attention to one thing that is very, very important in this context. It is that employers have the objective responsibility. In the old days, we called the law the Workers' Protection Act. It was a law designed to protect the worker from bad working conditions. Now we have chosen this neutral expression. The rapporteurs must bear in mind that the right to direct and distribute work is linked to objective employer responsibility. The day the employer offers that the workers and the employer can share the management responsibility well enough then there is also an equal responsibility. But there is, of course, an asymmetrical relationship between employers and workers in the workplace, and that is why we have allocated responsibility in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162522	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162523	But if, as a worker, you have both been offered a helmet and hearing protectors and are consistently not wearing it and are thus helping to do so in such a way that the employer gets a proper booth in his nose and large fines etc., is it not fair enough that the worker also gets a small booth? And when the rapporteur talks about tighter fines and booklets and so on, should we not also say to the worker that, if you do not take care of your own working environment, you are also subjecting yourself to escalating fines, probably to more serious cases and in repeated cases? Wouldn't that be fair enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162607	Well, if we share management rights, fine, then we must also share responsibility for what is happening in the workplace. That's just not what's happening. That's what I was trying to explain. Today there is the possibility of judging employees if they break the Working Conditions Act. And so it is that this law is based on the fact that if an employer has employed the wrong workforce, then he has the right to dismiss people and to find himself a new workforce. This is what lies in the asymmetrical relationship between the employer and the worker that the employer has the right to fire, but the worker has no right to fire the employer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162642	Then we shall have no further brief comments. We thank the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that's Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103162654	Thank you so much. The Danish Labour Inspectorate is three times as large as in Sweden. The Swedish Labour Inspectorate controls fewer jobs, but notes more violations. The Swedes are therefore better at selecting companies with the greatest risk of poor working conditions and leaving them in control. Over the last 10 years in Denmark, the Danish Labour Inspectorate has been increasing in resources. This has happened despite the fact that the extent of recognized occupational injuries has remained at a stable level. There is therefore no link between the political priorities and the actual development of recognised occupational injuries. The total cost of the occupational health and safety area is over 9 billion. kr. a year. Expenditure shall cover only the costs directly resulting from the legislation. That is, for example, the case. insurance premiums for accidents at work, budget appropriations and the administrative costs of employers in this area. We use 1⁄2%. of our GDP in this area, much more resources than our neighbouring countries, and without being able to demonstrate that we will have an added value in terms of reducing labour damage for the more resources we use in this area in relation to our neighbouring countries, all highly developed welfare societies. That is not appropriate. This reflects one of the areas where logic seems to be that the more resources you provide, the better it becomes and that you are completely blind to the fact that there is, of course, a falling effect on the last crown you put in an area. That's the way it is. The return on investment is, of course, decreasing, the more resources you use in this area. This is true in this area, and it is true in many other areas. The bill we are discussing today is the implementation of an agreement between the former government, the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Conservative People's Party on a strengthened work on working conditions. Among other things, the draft law makes the Factory Inspectorate more risk-based. In the future, the Factory Inspectorate will focus their efforts on those companies where there are problems with the working environment. It is a sensible step to take, it is a step in the right direction that we think is right. We do think, however, that we could have been more ambitious in this area. When you read the bill, you can see that it is not expected to result in lower costs for the state or for business. What we believe is needed in this area are fewer rules. I have a complete catalogue of examples of companies which do not see the Danish Labour Inspectorate as a positive player, but which, on the contrary, find that the Danish Labour Inspectorate is changing practice without the companies being aware of it, and take action against things that are completely incomprehensible to the companies and also to the employees of the companies. It can, for example, be done. be a company with few employees, a small start-up company that is told that they have to buy records on which their trusted offices can roll, without there being any desire for it, or that there is suddenly a change of practice, so that when you work in Bilka, you have to wear safety shoes when you go out to the warehouse to pick up something that has little to do with security, but which makes everyday life in the companies unnecessary. We need to be aware that what primarily ensures a good working environment in Denmark is not the many, many billions we spend on it; it is that we have a culture, a very good culture, out in companies where employers and employees' organisations • employers and employees in general work together with the common goal of having a safe and good working environment. And we probably have the best working environment in the world. At least there are no other employees in the world who are as happy to go to work as they are in Denmark. However, although there are some thistles, overall we believe that this bill is a step in the right direction, and that is why we intend to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163203	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163207	It was not easy to understand all this long talk about a stable level and that investing in the Factory Inspectorate could not be useful and that the Factory Inspectorate was unpopular with certain employers. I can understand that. If I were an employer fucking with safety and putting my employees at risk, then I wouldn't want to have the authority visiting either. Of course. It's something that goes without saying. I would like to ask the rapporteur: how many employees were in the Labour Inspectorate in 2005 and 2006? And should it be said that a stable and proper level is 20,000 occupational diseases and 40,000 accidents a year and that it is okay? That it is a stable level and that we must put up with it because those who go to work without accidents are satisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163305	Nobody wants accidents at work. If we could make legislation that would make no one hurt at work, then we would do it, but we cannot. After all, there are risks associated with some kinds of work, and we will probably never get rid of it completely. But that does not mean, of course, that we should not be sensible when it comes to giving priority to resources for an area. And we do not think it makes sense to believe that the more resources you add to an area, specifically this area, the fewer occupational injuries there will be. There will be occupational injuries, unfortunately, as I said. We should all like to avoid this, but it is not the case that, for example, if we were to do so, we would not be able to do so. If the resources doubled to this area, we'd see a halving of the work injuries. It doesn't work that way. What makes us, first and foremost, less occupational injuries and relatively few occupational injuries in Denmark is that we have a very good cooperation between employers and employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163413	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163415	I'll try again: How many employees were in the Labour Inspectorate in 2005? Is it not the case that when the construction trade unions go out and visit companies, they see that in two out of three jobs there are serious violations, some of them trigger bans or injunctions, or where supervision completely stops things immediately? Is that a satisfactory level? I could also mention the other figures again, but I guess I don't have to. On two thirds of all construction sites there are serious violations, is that satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163452	No, nobody thinks that is satisfactory, and it is therefore also wise to ensure that the Factory Inspectorate is more targeted at those companies where there are problems. However, I think that the rapporteur takes a line which I think the rapporteur often does and which I do not think is reflected in the reality of the fact that there are major conflicts in the labour market between employers' wishes and the wishes of employees. So, in my opinion, the rapporteur seems to agree with a premise that we have such a class society in which employers and workers do not work together. I do not think that is a correct representation of reality. They're working together to solve these problems, and we think that's really good, and we think it's good to target resources where there are problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163547	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163552	I think that this is an exciting way forward by the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. It is such an investment and it costs a great deal of money to spend money on the Labour Inspectorate etc. I just think that when you look at the work-related absence, you have to remember how much it is. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of how much it is, but I can say that we are talking about over 60 billion. Then I also think in such an accounting context that it may well be a good investment to put some money in it to bring that figure down in the social accounts. Leave it alone, 'cause I don't think it's that important here. The really, really important thing is that we prevent people getting sick. I note that the rapporteur says that cooperation in the workplace is important. I think that is absolutely right. It's out there that things have to be done, and maybe it's one of the most important things. How, then, does the rapporteur feel about the money that until now, until 1 January, has been set aside in the Finance Act to do preventive work, to help companies cooperate, employers and workers, to prevent wear and tear, that there are occupational injuries, that there are accidents, actually being removed by the financial law that is now in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163706	First of all, I would like to say that I believe that the rapporteur is manipulating roughly when he says that occupational diseases can be reduced to 60 billion. kr. It's a gross manipulation. It is a gross manipulation, because it takes all the reported occupational injuries, and then you sum it up for an amount, but it is not the recognized occupational injuries. This means that a large number of the occupational injuries reported are not approved, and therefore it cannot be said that it is 60 billion. kr., when a large part of the amount does not become what should you say? That's one thing. I think it's manipulative to put it that way. The second is that I think that the savings made in the Finance Act are sensible, given that we are spending a great deal of resources on the Danish Labour Inspectorate. It makes sense now to make legislation that says that now more resources are being targeted at those companies where there are problems. I think that makes sense. I would just like to say that I simply do not buy the premise that the more resources you spend in an area, the better it will necessarily be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163827	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163830	The rapporteur must of course think what the rapporteur wants. I just want to say that what I have mentioned has nothing to do with work injury compensation or anything like that. It is the work-related absence, i.e.: the cost of sickness absenteeism for persons affected by an occupational injury in one way or another, either short-term or long-term. We are talking about over 60 billion. kr. It is a very, very large amount, and it is both in relation to production losses and in relation to costs directly to the people who have sick leave. But please don't do this. I think it is interesting that the rapporteur says that we should go for what really results, because then I think the rapporteur should try to go in and look at the special efforts made by the Labour Inspectorate so far, for example. campaigns are being conducted directly on construction sites where, as far as I am aware, 5 to 10 times as many decisions are being made as even the risk-based supervision that is being done today does. So maybe that's what you should go for, instead of saving it away.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103163927	What the rapporteur is saying is still wrong. The 60 billion. kr. is wrong. It is not people who are affected by an occupational injury; it is people who have reported an occupational injury but are not awarded anything on the basis of an occupational injury. There's a very big difference between that. Many of these cases are rejected, and that is why we cannot do it up to 60 billion. kr. That's one thing. Sickness absenteeism is a problem in many places, especially in the public sector. If the quality of the working environment is to be measured on the basis of the level of sickness absenteeism, I think we should start to outsource a great many tasks to the private sector, because there is far, far lower sickness absence. So it would be a sensible way to go. It seems that private people are much better at creating a good working environment that leads to lower absenteeism. So let's get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164014	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next is the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164027	After all, I am one of the stand-in rapporteurs to whom we have been addressed by the President, so of course I have been immersed in this bill with great interest to find out what this is really about, so that I could also answer any questions afterwards. So I hope I've gotten smart enough. As the draft law shows, the aim is, of course, to strengthen health and safety efforts in a way that targets those companies with the greatest risk of occupational health and safety problems. It has to be, among other things. happen, by 80 per cent. future supervision must be risk-based supervision on the basis of an index-based risk assessment, by increasing the penalties for revenants, and by allowing the Labour Inspectorate to publish the names of companies that are grossly in breach of the rules. In the alternative, we would like to support a broad political agreement to improve the work environment, because a healthy and safe working environment is essential for the overall quality of life in society at all, and at the same time we find it indisputable that good working conditions actually pay for companies. Fortunately, we know that a great many companies are putting a lot of effort into ensuring their employees proper conditions and improvements have been made in many places, but there are still areas where stronger efforts are needed. For example: A report by the National Centre for Safety and Health at Work shows a dull statistic of the number of employees who are overworked mentally at the workplace. We welcome the fact that the monitoring of this proposal is more targeted at risk-based efforts, but still retains these sample checks. Overall, it is our belief that the bill will strengthen efforts for a better working environment, and hopefully the new targeted efforts can also reverse the development of the psychological working environment. So the alternative is positive with regard to the proposal and we look forward to the further work on the proposal, as Mrs Josephine Fock does, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164222	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur of the Radical Left and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164234	Thank you for the floor, President. In the Radical Left, too, we welcome the bill. As you know, this is an agreement that we reached in March 2015 in a broad majority. We believe that the legislative proposal helps to improve the working environment and that efforts are targeted at those companies which are at the very risk of failing to meet the requirements. Unfortunately, there are companies that do not, and here we are tightening up supervision and, incidentally, the amount of fines. We're really happy about that. It is, of course, absolutely essential that we continue to have a keen eye on compliance with the rules we lay down in the field of health and safety, and that they be reduced in relation to those companies which do not comply with them. We need to help push this effort in the right direction. We are also seen in this way in the world, and it is important that we do not lag behind in that effort. So we support this in the Radical Left and, of course, we stick to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164345	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164350	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she has thought about why there has never been recourse to the possibility of detention provided for in the Working Environment Act. After all, every year, if you take it over a number of years, 50 people are killed or killed. Sometimes in my lifetime we've been up to 60-70 pieces, and I guess we're pretty low now. What is the reason why we are so sensitive to detention employers when they kill people?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164418	This is an assessment that the authorities must make. It is quite intrusive and now the questioner is putting it very hard. However, I agree with the questioner on what I am assuming is the starting point for the issue, namely that serious violations of health and safety legislation are really serious and should also be considered in line with a number of other violations, that is to say, crime, and that debate may need to get a little more air, so that it does not get started, and that is what the draft law also helps to ensure that all employers are demonised, but clarification that when there are serious infringements there must also be action. I still think that we should leave the sanctions to those who have to judge. However, I agree with the questioner that the penalties for serious infringements must be clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164527	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164529	But it is also very clear that it is they who are responsible for the grossest offenses and those who are most squandered, who get the hardest sentences, if we put it right, and therefore there is nothing unfair about it. The second is that I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on a financial law in which 20% of people live. at the Factory Inspectorate. Is that all right, regardless of the fact that risk-based supervision may be a slightly better tool than what we used a few years ago? Turns it on when we cut 20 percent. At the Factory Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164606	Thank you for that question, because I think it is in the line of the other things. Now this was an agreement we made in March. And it was not part of the then government's financial bill that 20 per cent should be saved. In addition, the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Employees) was set up by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Employees). This Left Government, with one hand, creates more jobs in the outermost regions and closes with the other educational institutions and thus state jobs in perhaps even greater numbers in the outermost regions, and it is a little the case that we are now dealing with a bill which, on the one hand, ensures targeted action, ensures higher fines, ensures that we deal with the serious violations that we have to commit, and, on the other hand, cuts in the effort, so that we can risk that it might be almost of no use to the world, or that we have to make even greater use of this instrument. I'm sorry about that, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164659	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the SF's rapporteur, and it's Mr. SF's. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164714	Every day there are high demands on employees in the workplace. They must be flexible and productivity must be at the top. The hamster wheels are running fast out there at work, and with the destruction of the after-wage and with a higher retirement age, there will have to be running for many years. An uncertain working environment, both physical and psychological, has a high human and financial cost. Against this background, it is both incomprehensible and cynical that the government in the Finance Act is proposing dramatic cuts to the Labour Inspectorate. It will undoubtedly draw a bloody trail all over the country if the government gets through with its 20 per cent savings, and also the psychological working environment will get a serious crack. With the combination of savings and focus on efforts, we risk putting work on the psychological working environment in the background. However, the challenges of an unsustainable mental working environment require more resources in these years, especially if preventive work is to succeed. The draft law we are discussing here calls for a more targeted approach to the main culprits and, at the same time, for an increase in penalties, including through the publication of companies which are putting employees at risk. SF thinks it is a good idea to concentrate efforts and hit harder with the hammer on employers who skip over where the fence is lowest, to the benefit of their own short-term profit, but to the detriment of employees and the overall economy. The bill is not a big step, but it is a step in the right direction, and therefore the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164907	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103164922	Conservatives also support the bill. It is, of course, part of an agreement that we have been part of, and I have in fact just inherited the proposal here, but I think it is an excellent proposal. I think it targets supervision and control a little more so that there are not a lot of companies that should be subjected to any controls that are actually superfluous, but so that instead we use resources where they are most needed. I do not share the very negative words that have been said here about employers in general and labour market conditions, but of course there is a need for some supervision. I would like to say that I agree more with Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, who has pointed out that we spend huge amounts of resources on supervision and control of companies in Denmark. And when we choose to use our resources there, it's probably not something that makes us raise our wealth in Denmark when you compare with other countries. But the bill here makes good sense, and we support it and look forward to the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165023	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165028	Thank you. It is also gratifying that Conservatives continue to support the proposal. I would just like to ask one thing, following on from the debate that we have had in the Chamber, whether the rapporteur does not agree that prevention is better than cure and that, unfortunately, the part called prevention appears to have been completely removed from the Factory Inspectorate with the financial law that is currently in place. Does the rapporteur not think that prevention is better than cure?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165055	Yeah, I think it is. It is not necessarily the case that you just have to spend as much money as possible, but as a starting point it is of course much better to take action early and prevent sickness and accidents at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165114	Sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165116	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that he agrees that penalties should be lifted. Can he tell me what he thinks is why we've never used detention as punishment, even if it's an option in this law? During the 35 years I have had to deal with the working environment, we have not even seen anyone convicted, even though we have had quite large fatal accidents at work, quite large and serious bodily injuries, among those cases where the employer has had objective and subjective responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165158	I am not 100% sure if I heard the question correctly, but if I understood it correctly, then it was whether I could answer why no one has been sent to prison because of accidents at work. It's gonna be nodded to. It is, of course, a legislative responsibility. It is, of course, the Folketing that has to decide what the level of punishment should be, and if we think that there should be much higher penalties for breaching the legislation on working conditions, then we have to decide this here in Things. That is not what we want from the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165230	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165234	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Conservative People's Party whether they think it is an appropriate level to cut the Labour Inspectorate by 20%. in the Finance Act, so there are fewer people to go to the jobs just to see if that is okay and to ensure that those who sloppy with things start doing things properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165258	This is not a point in the government's financial bill that we intend to attack.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165307	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We are now thanking the rapporteur and we are now through the rapporteur's line. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165322	Thank you. I am pleased to be able to present this bill, which will translate the broad political agreement of spring. After all, it is an agreement that ensures that health and safety efforts are targeted at those companies with the greatest risk of occupational health and safety problems. The agreement also ensures that bad working conditions do not become a competitive parameter and that companies that seriously violate health and safety rules are penalised by greater fines. The draft law contains three measures which are all necessary for the implementation of the agreement. Firstly, the proposal provides for the possibility of further targeting risk-based supervision. This means that in future the Factory Inspectorate will focus more on the risk-based supervision of those companies which are expected to have the greatest problems with working conditions. We in the government think this is a right way to go. There is no need to spend resources on those companies that both can and will address their health and safety challenges. In order to ensure the best use of resources, it is also proposed that supervision can be organised more flexibly. For example: it is provided that in future the Factory Inspectorate will give digital notice of supervision, where it is now done by telephone. This can be of benefit both to the companies and to the Factory Inspectorate. All of this is something that I believe will contribute to better and more effective supervision of businesses. Many companies are in control of their working environment, and there will be companies in the future who, as a starting point, will not be visited by the supervision. Unfortunately, however, there are still a number of companies where conditions are not in order. Unfortunately, some of them also violate health and safety legislation so badly that they get a ban from supervision. Secondly, in order to encourage those companies to correct the working conditions, it is proposed that in future, on the website of the supervision, it be possible to seek out companies under enhanced supervision as a result of the prohibition of supervision. In the same way, companies which are seriously violating the Working Conditions Act must be penalised more severely. Thirdly, it is therefore proposed, among other things. to double the increase in fines in cases of aggravating or particularly aggravating circumstances and to extend the area of particularly aggravating circumstances. With these and the other initiatives resulting from the spring agreement on the strengthening of health and safety efforts, it is my belief that we are well on our way in the right direction. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive reception of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165630	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165641	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister something. After all, the agreement we made in March is based on the overall effort of the Labour Inspectorate, which was at that time. After all, we looked at the targets set for our 2020 plan and could see that we were not near that it just pointed a little upwards to achieve the results we have actually set ourselves for, for example. to reduce the number of muscle and skeletal injuries by 20%. and to reduce the number of people exposed to poor mental health and safety at work by 25%. We are nowhere near it, but there we have in the agreement that has been made, said: okay, we try some new things, among other things. with the risk-based supervision, to point there and reach what we want. So I would just like to ask: when we have done so, knowing that we have a preventive effort at the same time, that's what we're looking at, because we're on the whole platform... how does the Minister see it now? Is it realistic to achieve these goals when the government is now proposing to remove the part of the platform called preventive work? How on earth could we achieve the targets we have set ourselves in the 2020 plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165754	The government wants a good working environment in Denmark. We want it to be healthy and safe to go to work, and we want Denmark to be at the top of this area in Europe. Therefore, we will also follow the target figures mentioned very closely. If we look at the things that are going on right now, then I think that the proposal under consideration here in Things today is a very good proposal, because it is a proposal that allows us to target and qualify the use of supervisory resources in a completely different way than in the past. Finally, I would like to say that there have been some specific and limited appropriations for specific supervisory activities in recent years. These are appropriations which, in any case, had to come to an end. It is quite right, as has been mentioned and also been debated in this Chamber, that it is appropriations which we are now phasing out in such a way that they are phased out, while at the same time we are aiming to phase in the changes to the Factory Inspectorate as a result of the proposal being dealt with in Things today. We think this is the right way to do it, and it should be borne in mind that the appropriations we are talking about for the specific supervisory activities have in any case been limited in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165925	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103165928	We do not, in fact, disagree on that. It is, of course, time-limited appropriations, but it is appropriations that come from funds that are specifically earmarked for preventive action. As I mentioned earlier here today, it is, of course, funds that disappear, and that is why I am concerned that we will ever achieve the objectives we have set ourselves when resources are allocated on the basis of only part of the platform that is about a good and safe working environment, which the Minister excellently expresses. The Minister and I fully agree with that part, and we are also very pleased with the agreement we have here, because it points very well forward. But it's only in terms of supervision. After all, this is not about preventive action at all. What we are talking about today is only what you do when the damage has been done. What the government is saving away is everything that is about prevention, what must ensure that it never occurs. And I just can't see that appearing anywhere, even in the agreement we have on 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170025	All the knowledge accumulated also through the specific supervisory efforts will be knowledge transferred to the general supervisory activity and included in the new qualification, which will in any case be carried out by the supervisory activity in the context of risk-based and more targeted supervision. In other words, we have no ambition to accept in any way a worse working environment, but we have an ambition to contribute to the fact that the distribution of roles between companies, companies and employees and companies and supervision will be the right ones in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170104	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170122	The debate is open. And we give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170145	About six months ago, my predecessor stood here and rejected an almost identical motion for a resolution tabled by the authors. I don't know if it's gonna come as a surprise, but I'm gonna do the same. The proposers say that they are in favour of Europol, which is why I can only recommend that we vote 'yes' on 3 December. This is the only way that Denmark can safely continue as a full member of Europol. Nevertheless, as far as I am concerned, the authors of the motion for a resolution have assured the Danes that we will continue in Europol after a 'no' vote. It's a guarantee that's not worth much. One of the proposers had to modify his guarantee after a Detector Check on Danmarks Radio to ensure that he is safe. If, at the same time, the Enhedslisten openly expresses its opposition to Europol cooperation, then the guarantees of the 'no' side are strangely hollow. The proposers require the government to negotiate a parallel agreement, but a parallel agreement is not a good solution. It is uncertain whether we can have one. We have been refused two out of six requests, and even if we succeed, the negotiations will take time. From experience it has taken 4-5 years, and in the meantime Danish police are outside the cooperation. If necessary, the content of a parallel agreement will also depend on what can be negotiated. A parallel agreement therefore runs the risk of leading to a 'B' membership of Europol. Then there's one thing I think you're missing. I do not know how to ask for a parallel agreement on something that does not yet exist. And the negotiations on the new Europol regulation are still under way. At the same time, it is wrong for Norway, Iceland and Switzerland to have parallel agreements with Europol. Europol, on the other hand, has concluded operational agreements with these countries, but this is the end of the new regulation and therefore not an option for Denmark. And then there is the fact that the Norwegian agreement itself is not attractive to Denmark. Norway has among other things: not direct access to Europol's information database, but in each case should ask Europol for permission to apply. This is why Norway had no more than 2,000 times applied in the system in 2014, while the Danish police sought more than 70,000 times. For the same reason, the Police Union has warned against Denmark simply being associated with Europol through an agreement like the Norwegian one. If, after all, the parallel agreement should not succeed, then, according to the proposers of a new referendum, we should only vote for Europol. However, this cannot be done, because Schengen automatically follows, and it becomes supranational when Denmark passes over to the electoral system. It is new to me that the Danish People's Party has apparently become supporters of Schengen. This also means, of course, that the whole discussion about establishing permanent border controls is mere talk, because you cannot do so if you want to be a Schengen member at the same time. Furthermore, the vote on 3 December is not just about Europol. We want to opt for 22 other acts which are in Denmark's interest. As Minister of Justice, it obviously means a lot to me that Denmark can effectively help fight cybercrime, trafficking in human beings and the sexual abuse of children. And it also means that Danish companies will have as good conditions as their European competitors. I have yet to hear a single argument against us being involved in these matters. And that is ruled out by the model of the proposers. Finally, the proposers are nervous about what will happen to Danish immigration policy. I do not quite understand that, because it is clear from the political agreement that Danish immigration policy must continue to be established in Denmark. In addition, in his opening speech, the Prime Minister stated that the Danes would be asked in a new referendum if a majority in the Folketing ever wanted Denmark to participate in the common European asylum policy. The Left, the Social Democrats and the Conservative People's Party have indicated that it is a prerequisite for the lifting of their veto, in other words our veto, for a referendum to take place prior to such a decision. On 22 October the Minister for Foreign Affairs sent an amendment to the Parliamentary Committee on Europe which will make this clear in the draft law's observations. I would suggest that the debate on asylum and immigration in relation to the EU issue should be closed. It is clear what you will get if you vote yes on 3 December. Conversely, it seems to me very unclear what you will get if you vote no. So the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170656	Thank you. There is a brief comment. It's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170702	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister for spending a little more time on this proposal than his predecessor, who spent two and a half minutes rejecting it. I would like to say that, after all, the Minister seems to take it a little more seriously. I would like to commend the Minister for that. I would just like to ask the Minister to state that what I am now saying is correct, i.e. confirm it or deny it. Can the Minister confirm that the two out of six requests for parallel agreements have both been submitted prior to the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon? And can the Minister confirm that the technical probes conducted in relation to the conclusion of a parallel agreement were stopped by the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170749	Now I want to say first of all about spending time, that when good friends are on the wrong track, you have to spend time and effort to have the necessary conversation to reprove them and just to lift the good mood so that everyone can get together again. My clear ambition with this is, of course, that the Danish People's Party sees the light and joins the jacar. Of course. So I take this seriously, and I'm happy to take the discussions that need to be done. There's free coffee in the Justice Department if that's what's needed. I can guarantee that. Furthermore, it is true that we have not negotiated parallel agreements since the Treaty of Lisbon, and it is an open question how easy it is to do it after the Treaty of Lisbon. It's not that clear. But that it takes time, we're clear. I do not want to blame the previous government for deciding, if you did not know what parallel agreement to conclude, to do what this government is doing, namely rejecting a proposal to negotiate something that you have no idea what is. I don't want to. I could easily think of things to blame the previous government. We can, on the other hand, share that a little, if it is, but not in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170905	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170908	I would also like to hope that at some point the Minister will be on the right track. The Minister will probably do so after 3 December. I would just like to ask the Minister specifically: if the Minister is now so concerned that Denmark remains in Europol, which we are also in the Danish People's Party, does the Minister not think that it would have been a good idea to have continued the technical probes on the conclusion of a parallel agreement, so that Denmark was better off and so that we would have gone further than would have been if we were to have a 'no' on 3 December?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103170946	I must say that my starting point is that you cannot start negotiations on something you have no idea what is. Well, technical prerequisites are abundant in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for us to deal with the technical challenges that may be there. After all, the real challenge is not technical. It's political. And the fact is that when Europol is supposed to be supranational next year, it is quite clear, because we have to protect the reservation of law. In the opinion of the Danish People's Party, we must then withdraw from Europol unless we vote in favour. That's where the time frames collide. For if we are to negotiate a parallel agreement, it is our experience that it takes at least 4-5 years. That is also why I am somewhat surprised by the guarantee issued by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171028	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171031	It is very funny that the Minister for Justice does not think that a parallel agreement can be negotiated, because it is so completely unclear what comes out of the negotiations that are taking place, about a new Europol regulation, but one can obviously hold a referendum on it and endorse it completely without knowing what it is all about, is it not? Very strange, sir. Minister. In addition, the Minister said that the Danish police had applied for 70,000 times in the Europol register, whereas Norway had only applied for 2,000 times, and that it was because they were B members, that is to say they were not full members of Europol. Where did the minister get that hoax? What is it based on? I would like the Minister to indicate perhaps how many times Sweden has applied in the Europol register, and Sweden is well-fledged members of Europol, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171124	It is no wonder that we can have a vote on an opt-in system. It's not weird at all. Because it is precisely that we can then choose what we want and implement it in good order here in the Folketing. So I don't understand at all that, sir. Søren Søndergaard cannot understand, because despite political differences, it is my opinion that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has a reasonably good perception.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171156	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171201	That is also the way to avoid answering the question. Does this mean, however, that the Minister is suggesting that we may not be joining Europol anyway and that it is just the opt-in system that we agree with? I thought there was a very clear political commitment on the part of the parties that we should join Europol on that, so we have no idea what is and therefore we cannot negotiate a parallel agreement on that. Well, that doesn't hold, Minister. That is to underestimate not mine, it is actually irrelevant, but the intelligence of the people. Where does it come from that Norway has only sought 2 000 times because they are not full members of Europol? The Minister must then be able to tell us how many times, for example. Sweden has applied. After all, Sweden is a full member. Denmark has sought 70,000 times. Here Sweden sought more times than Norway, or what? The Minister must be able to provide that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171247	I have received a letter from the Norwegian police management stating that they have only sought the number of times, and there have been statements from the same leadership saying that they unfortunately do not have the instruments available to the Danish police. That letter is Mr. Søren Søndergaard is very welcome to have. It has also been sent in a reply to Dansk Folkeparti here on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171311	Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171315	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for what was said. We in the Danish People's Party are far from agreeing with what the Minister of Justice says. We have to recognise that this vote, which we are going to have on 3 December, is far from just about Europol. That is only a fraction of what we are going to vote on. However, I think that the Minister of Justice and the government still owe the Danes an answer to why it was decided to resign from some important negotiations on a parallel agreement on Europol. After all, this was done well before it was decided that we Danes should now be voted on 3 December. I think the Minister owes us all here in Denmark an answer as to why it was that the negotiations on Europol were stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171409	I fully agree with the questioner that this is also about something other than Europol. But there's something that makes me a little puzzled. After all, the Danish People's Party and the government agree that Europol must be part of it and therefore also follows Schengen. It's in the Minutes. But then what I need to hear is: Where in the rest is it that the Danish People's Party disagrees? Is it the case that Danish women can take their stand out in Europe; is it the case with rules that can affect people who commit paedophilia; is it the case that we are attacking cross-border crime? I have not yet understood where it is in the legislation that the Danish People's Party disagrees. It is quite fine that we agree on Europol and the other, but what about these legal acts, why do they differ? Compared to the government thing, I've answered it. I mean, the government stopped doing that at the time, it was the government's decision, but we didn't oppose it, and it was because you didn't know what to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171507	Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171509	That is what politicians say about it. The Minister of Justice knows very well, just as well as I do, that this vote on 3 December on the reservation of the law will be taken if it is that the Danes vote 'yes' to surrender sovereignty to a degree that we do not even know the consequences of. Should we have a common criminal law here in the European Union? What does it have to do with Denmark etc. etc.? I just want to say that in the Danish People's Party we are incredibly nervous about what this will have to do with Denmark, and I am even more concerned that the Minister of Justice chooses to ignore and answer next to it in a very, very important question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171604	I mean, I've been accused of a lot over the ages, but rarely to talk around or not to say my opinion reasonably clearly. I have thus replied that the previous government chose not to do so because it did not know what to negotiate. I thought that was a wise position, and it is the same position that this government has. Then Mrs Marlene Harpsøe conjures up a picture that everything will collapse if you vote yes. But it is the case that we are allowed to choose exactly what we want to be in, for example. the restraining order, which I still don't understand whether the Danish People's Party is against or what. And if you are not against it, why not include it in the package as well? I think that is basically what we are missing in this debate: which of the 22 pieces of legislation are we really opposed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171646	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171657	I'm on it, sir. Søren Søndergaard asks, a little curious about the Norwegian features on the EIS. Can the Minister confirm, on the one hand, that the Norwegians divide their cases into two different types, ordinary ones and exceptional ones, and, on the other hand, that the exceptional cases are the 2 000 drawn from the EIS database, and, on the other hand, that a response time of about 15 minutes can be expected, that is to say, a very, very rapid response time to any questions you may have if you need information from Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171727	It is true that there is a distinction, but it has not prevented the Norwegian police management from stating very clearly that they lack the same opportunities as we have in Denmark. You can easily choose to make this a technical discussion, preferably for my sake, but the fact is that the figure itself of course also indicates how useful an instrument this is for Norwegian police. There you say yourself that you do not have the same benefit from what we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171759	Peter Kofod Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171801	Thank you for your answer. Then I would like to ask the Minister another question. As far as I am aware, the Danish police carry out 19 per cent. of all moves on the EIS. That is quite well done. That's one fifth of all the moves on the total database, compared to Denmark being quite a small country in this equation with 5.5 million inhabitants. What does the Minister think it tells us? I'm really curious to know if there's an acceleration from year to year in how much you draw on the database. I mean, I think it's quite thought-provoking compared to other countries, taking into account the reaction time, among other things. for Norway, which has a much worse agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171846	Actually, I'm really glad that Mr. Knox... Peter Kofod Poulsen asks that question, because that is the very proof of how central Europol is to the Danish police and how important it is that we are part of it. We have been able to take full advantage of the opportunities that exist, as a small, flexible country with skilled policemen. If you take biker gang crime, for example, it was. Danish police, who brought it into Europol cooperation and made it part of Europol's strategic work because of the cross-border nature. That is because we have the location in Europol that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171923	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. The first is the rapporteur for the Socialists, Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103171930	The Danish People's Party has tabled a resolution requiring the government to negotiate a parallel agreement on Europol. It is a proposal that we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support, both because in the motion for a resolution there is serious misinformation and it is somewhat sloppy to table a motion for a resolution with actual factual errors, but also because we in the Social Democratic Party are more concerned with fighting criminals than discussing EU technicalities. Instead, we want to provide the police with the best and most secure conditions for putting an end to harmful crime. First to the factual errors in the proposal. As the Danish People's Party is well aware, immigration and asylum policy is not part of the proposal to be voted on on 3 December. That is why it is nonsense to include it in a motion for a resolution. That is not part of this discussion at all. Nor is it true that Norway, Iceland and Switzerland have concluded parallel agreements with Europol, as is apparent from the proposal. These are, on the other hand, operational agreements concluded by Europol with a number of third countries and, among other things, by Europol. provide access to the exchange of personal data. However, the operational agreements are not at all equivalent to full membership of Europol, as they include, among other things, Europol. does not provide direct access to Europol's information system, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned in his speech. May I not remind the Danish People's Party that they are now the largest bourgeois party in the Folketing and have many years on the back of the political scene. Therefore, it is not unreasonable to expect that proposals made in the Parliamentary Chamber are consistent with the truth that there are no factual errors in the proposals. As you know, this proposal is filled with factual errors, and there is therefore potential for another trip in the Detector of the proposers. If we then imagined that these errors were not consistent with the resolution, we Socialists would still reject it. Because this is not the best protection against criminals, as the Danish People's Party is proposing here. And I am absolutely astonished that the party does not show greater interest in tightening its grip on paedophiles, on traffickers, on IT criminals and other fraudsters and on violent ex-boyfriends who persecute their victims. The Danish People's Party owes us answers. Why is it that the Danish People's Party will not listen to the police, to Save the Children, to the Nest, who all point out that a yes in the vote on 3 December will strengthen the fight against child abusers and the backers of trafficking in women? Why should children who are abducted not have the best opportunities for help? Why should the woman who has been beaten by her ex-husband for years live in fear when she is on summer vacation with the family? Why, the Danish People's Party? The vote on 3 December is not just about Europol, of which the proposal will make us a discount member. The vote is also about acts that provide security for Danish citizens. I simply do not understand that the Danish People's Party can be so heartless and so much more sympathetic to criminals than to the victims, and that is what this proposal does. I would like to repeat that we in the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal here, and we cannot, because it safeguards Denmark to a much lesser extent against criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172332	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172338	Thank you for that, and thank you for the slightly confused but hearty attempt by the rapporteur to swing the crib over the proposers. I would just like to ask Trine Bramsen to confirm in all silence and, if not, if she cannot confirm it, to state what lawyer Mrs Trine Bramssen has heard that this proposal does not imply a legal possibility of giving sovereignty to asylum and immigration policy. If Mrs Trine Bramsen can mention one lawyer who has that view, then I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172416	I believe that all the lawyers in Denmark will be able to make that clear, because that is what the comments on the legal text say, otherwise they will have to go through their studies. Can I also say, confused? So, if anyone is confused and confusing here, then it is the Danish People's Party that cares more about criminals than about the victims of crime. I think that is confusing and helping to create a completely wrong picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172440	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172443	But apparently Trine Bramsen has gone to the school called the scaremongering campaign. I'm gonna have to ask Trine Bramsen to deal with matter in this proposal. Is it not true that by voting 'yes' on 3 December, the people pass on, delegate their powers under Article 20 of the Constitution, to surrender sovereignty to a general majority of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172513	What the rapporteur said in his previous reply was that immigration and asylum policy were covered by this agreement. And to that the answer is very clear: it is not. That is directly in the comments to the legislative text. Then it is clear, and it is quite true, that if something changes in the future, then the Folketing can relate to it, but not when it comes to immigration and asylum policy. At the same time, there is a clear agreement that there is just one of the parties to the agreement behind this proposal that vetos, yes, then there must be a parliamentary election before you can change.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172553	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172557	I hardly know whether to laugh or cry after I have heard Mrs Trine Bramsen's story that we in the Danish People's Party should be heartless and that we should take more care of the criminals. Mrs Trine Bramsen knows very well that this is not what this is all about today. And Mrs Trine Bramsen also knows that on 3 December we will also be voting on Denmark's, what can I say, participation or non-participation in everything relating to asylum and immigration policy. I know very well that a political majority here in Christiansborg has indicated that it does not want Denmark to join the section on asylum and immigration policy. However, can Mrs Trine Bramsen not confirm that this is not legislation, but a political expression, a political agreement that this is the way things are going to be in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172656	I would recommend the questioner to read the bill, because these things are directly in the comments on the bill. The comments to the draft law directly state that there are a number of parties that want a referendum if asylum and immigration policy are to be included. Then it can't get any clearer, so let's stop that discussion. Are you supposed to laugh or cry? I think the questioner should vote 'yes' on 3 December instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172720	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172722	We cannot ignore the fact that the various guarantees given in relation to asylum and aliens policy in this area are, of course, political. A political statement has been made by the 'yes' parties that they do not want to participate in it. At the same time, however, we saw in the press on 9 October that both the SF and the Radicals are as the Prime Minister's guarantee of another referendum on EU asylum policy says. What does Mrs Trine Bramsen say about the fact that the SF and the Radicals are already a little staggering and do not really know which leg they are going to stand on?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172809	May I not recommend the questioner again to read the draft law, which is the basis for the vote on 3 December. It says black and white in the notes and it is the law that asylum and immigration policy is not covered by this. A referendum is required if we are to accede to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172829	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172832	I understand from Mrs Trine Bramsen that Norway and Switzerland are countries that are completely free to loose against criminals and paedophiles and all sorts of things we should perhaps discuss with them • but I would like to hear whether the rapporteur agrees with the Minister for Justice that it is completely unknown what the new Europol regulation is really going to contain. It is so unknown that we could not even begin to examine the possibility of a parallel agreement. Does the rapporteur share that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172913	After all, there is no basis for an agreement on something that you do not know what the content is in. I have to agree with the Minister for Justice on that point. Then I would say that what we are discussing here today is a parallel agreement on Europol, and that is what the comments here say. What I pointed out is that it is not right for the proposers to claim that Norway, Switzerland and Iceland have a parallel agreement, because they do not. They have an operational agreement. Quite frankly, I think that we should look into this before we bring a motion for a resolution to the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172947	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103172949	I understand that Mrs Trine Bramsen shares the view of the Minister of Justice that we cannot negotiate a parallel agreement on something that is completely unknown. But isn't it strange that we should have a referendum on joining something that is completely unknown? After all, there is nothing about a political agreement that, on the day following 3 December, the parties behind the referendum will announce that we are joining Europol, regardless of what it will look like. Is it not strange to go out and ask the Danes to join something where it is completely unclear what it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173027	No, of course it is about the basis of the agreement in which you form part, and when you make a parallel agreement, everything else is just a more comprehensive piece of legal work that needs to be done, and that is why I do not think it is unnatural. Well, sir, that's what I'm supposed to do. Søren Søndergaard also knows with his past in the EU system. Moreover, I must also point out that it is no longer Denmark that has to decide what we want to be a part of and what we do not want to be a part of. It is, after all, the other countries of the European Union that have to decide whether or not they want Denmark, and I think that is inappropriate. I think it is better that with this opt-in system we can point directly to what we want to be a part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173104	The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173109	Thank you. I would like to hear one thing from the rapporteur in this way: if we now do the terrible thing and vote 'yes' to the vote on 3 December, if the majority of the population were to vote 'yes', would it be so forward-looking if we now have a restraining order or if we are women in a relationship and we are beaten and we are lucky enough to have a restraining order against this violent man and you choose to go abroad that you want to inform the perpetrator of where the victim is going? In that case, it doesn't sound very much as if it's the criminal you're fighting in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173154	Now I very much hope that we will get a yes, because this is absolutely essential for us to be able to fight criminals in the future, and I have to say again that it is not a joke when the police, when Save the Child, when the Nest stands and recommends a yes. These are organisations that have this type of issue on a daily basis, and I think it is remarkable that the DF completely ignores their voice in this debate. It will be the case in the future if we vote 'yes', that the restraining order will enter into force immediately. For example, if you are on a charter holiday in Mallorca with your family and your violent ex-husband who has been following you for years, moving into the hotel room next door, then the restraining order applies immediately, then you should not first apply for it, then you should not contact the local police and expect the summer break to pass before it is sought. I think that is positive, and I have no doubt at all that when you talk to the women who are exposed to this, it is something that is extremely important. I hope that the Danish People's Party will recognise this and listen to the women.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173302	It was, after all, a long piece of talk before the rapporteur actually came to the substance of the matter, and it was that the rapporteur confirmed what I feared, because it really means that the victim is deprived of the opportunity to go to another EU country and hide from a criminal who might be after you. You lose the freedom that could have been in that you could go abroad and know that you were at a distance from someone who could be after you. I think that is quite telling. So I just want to thank the rapporteur for his confirmation. It's a confession case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173334	I simply did not understand the question, and I did not understand the conclusion of the confirmation. What this is all about is protecting women, men who are subjected to violence over a number of years, and I have to say that I find it deeply remarkable that the Danish People's Party does not listen to the organisations that help these women and men listen to their very clear voice in this debate, and so they recommend a yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173359	There are no more questioners at this stage, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Løkkegaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173427	Thank you, sir. President. If the Danish People's Party in these days, including the motion for a resolution here, lures with guarantees to stay in Europol, then the luretons are closely linked to the concept of parallel agreement. Denmark will undoubtedly get an agreement, if we say no, it has been said by the rapporteur. But alas, that kind of siren song is not to be lured by. The Danish Radio fact check programme Detector didn't do that the other day when this special DF guarantee was tested for a parallel agreement. The conclusion was clear: the only sure thing about a 'no' on 3 December is that Denmark is no longer part of police cooperation Europol and that a parallel agreement is not guaranteed at all. If an agreement were finally to be discussed, yes, it would be long along the way and of less quality than the opt-in system, which a yes indeed guarantees. That is why it is extremely important to vote 'yes' on 3 December, which is why it is also why the police want to continue in Europol so fervently in order to preserve something good and not make it easier for child fighters, traffickers, drug-gangsters and terrorists. As you know, there are many problems with parallel agreements. We have mentioned some of them, and I will just repeat that we have four of them at the moment, and that there are two who have been rejected. For this reason alone, therefore, there is no guarantee of a future agreement. If Denmark is lucky enough to get a yes to a negotiation, and you can't refuse that at all, then new problems will arise. This is not going to be an easy negotiation and, as you know, the price is high when you start doing something like this again. When the British wanted to choose Europol for the event, and it was even as an opt-in scheme, Spain suddenly resisted. Unofficially, everyone knew that the blockade was not therefore due to something that necessarily had something to do with that problem, but was about the conflict over the Rock of Gibraltar. Then there is the time factor that we have also mentioned, namely that the average negotiating time for the Danish parallel agreements so far is 4-5 years. Add that all the other 27 EU partners must ratify a possible agreement. As you know, for the Norwegians, this has meant that now, after nine years, they are still waiting for an agreement on arrest warrants. Finally, everyone agrees that the outcome of the negotiations will never be better for the police than the system currently in place. In other words, it will be a 'B' membership, and therefore after five to ten years of debate. Last but not least, I would say that parallel agreements have even more disadvantages. Every time the system changes, we have to negotiate again. Finally, it has to be said that a parallel agreement and the final decision on such a one are left to the European Parliament, because they have the right of veto in such agreements. And then you have to ask: is the European Parliament better at deciding for Denmark than Christiansborg is? The conclusion is clear: a parallel agreement is not a serious alternative to an opt-in system. There is no guarantee, because everything is too uncertain, gives too little and lasts too long. That is why we reject the motion for a resolution in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173721	Thank you. There are a number of questioners. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173726	One would not think, when I remember what Detector concluded, that the rapporteur and myself have seen the same programme. In fact, Detector concluded roughly the opposite of what the rapporteur says, but that is the case sometimes. I would just like to ask: there is an opinion poll today which shows that there is a majority for the 'no' wing. Of course we are happy about that, but we are not resting on the laurels, but what does the rapporteur really think his party will do if it becomes a 'no' vote? The rapporteur then imagines that the Left will sit back and say: we still believe that Denmark should be a member of Europol, but we do not want to do anything? What exactly is the Left going to do? There are two options: the third option is not to do anything, but what is the Left going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173827	After all, there are many things to be wondered about, and the Left is not a party known to lie on the low side. We are an action-oriented party. So it is probably a little early to start discussing what we will do if it becomes a no, now that we think it will be a yes. But it is clear here that if we were to get into that situation, it is far from certain that there will necessarily be a debate. If there is a debate, there are all the problems that I have been painstakingly explaining, so that is the answer to that. There will be a lot of problems if you have a debate. But, of course, it is obvious that something is going to be done, but it is speculation. I still believe in a yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173901	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173904	In fact, the rapporteur says quite clearly that, after a 'no' vote, the Left and the Government will work to ensure that Denmark continues to have a link with Europol. Of course, it's very nice to have that in mind. The questioner himself mentioned that Spain should have opposed it at a time when Britain wanted a parallel agreement. I just think the questioner owes it to say that something has changed in the Treaty of Lisbon, which means that countries can no longer go in and say no to parallel agreements. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173940	I have to correct the questioner: sir. Morten Løkkegaard is the rapporteur. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103173948	All I wanted to say with the example was that it's not that easy. I just don't think there are any honourable Members of this thing who are in doubt that if you start over with a debate on something that you have already achieved a very, very favorable roof-top, the price will of course rise. That's obvious. I don't think anyone can be in doubt about that. What I am just suggesting with the example is that when you start such a debate, the price will, of course, be higher. That is why what we will eventually achieve if we achieve something, and if we have a debate, we will not, of course, be better off than what we already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174023	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174026	I would say that Mr. Morten Løkkegaard is a brave man, for Mr. Morten Løkkegaard issued a guarantee here. I don't know if Denmark's Radio is interested in the arguments of the yes side, but if they do, at least there is food for thought here, for Mr. Løkkegaard. Morten Løkkegaard said that the only thing that is certain is that if we do not opt for the opt-in system, we will be outside Europol. And I really would like to hear Mr. Morten Løkkegaard: What does Mr. Morten Løkkegaard on it? Well, where is it? Is it something that's decided somewhere? Is there any written evidence of this? Because then I think the rapporteur should inform the Danish Parliament about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174110	I don't think so, sir. Søren Søndergaard or anyone else is in doubt that to the extent that we do nothing and that becomes a no, we will be left outside. To the extent that we say yes, of course we will be involved. It is politically decided, if I may say so. So I don't quite understand the question. Well, what is the point of the question? What is implied? These are the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174133	Well, the interesting thing is that it is actually unclear what is happening. In a letter we received from the Ministry of Justice or is it the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? As a starting point, they will continue to apply to Denmark. And so it is true that there are some speculations: what if Denmark stands alone? What if one thing or the other? But we don't actually know, or have Mr. Morten Løkkegaard a knowledge that he will share with us or Detector?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174218	I believe that the reading, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard gave here, created more confusion than clarification. At least it did with me. I would like to say that what is clear is what I have just said, and I do not think anyone has disputed that so far. The moment we vote 'yes', we have an opportunity to opt for future cooperation, and we intend to make use of that opportunity. The moment it becomes a no, we're outside. Those are the facts. And then we have to have a discussion at a different time on the basis of what Mr. Søren Søndergaard read and, frankly, I think caused more confusion than clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174252	The next question is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174256	Thank you, sir. President. I have heard that the Prime Minister has said that if the Danes vote yes on 3 December, at least a political majority will give the guarantee that if we go along with a common asylum and immigration policy in Denmark, then the Prime Minister will be asked to sign a referendum. This is obviously a guarantee that should last until the sun burns out. But then I was reading Politiken in which Mr. Morten Løkkegaard spoke as the rapporteur of the Left and where the rapporteur was asked whether it would be possible to provide any guarantees on behalf of future changing governments, to which the answer was: I do not know it is difficult to judge, you have to ask the President. Is it something like that, sir? Morten Løkkegaard will elaborate further here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174406	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174408	Yeah, I'd love to. I think that anyone who issues guarantees should have the opportunity to elaborate on this themselves, and the Prime Minister has had such ample opportunity to do so. If this is to be anything other than rhetorical teasing, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe would have looked into it too, and she has probably been present in the Chamber when the Prime Minister has clarified this, as he has done on several occasions. It has also emerged that a guarantee has been given in the sense that if anyone in the future had to start to get ideas that the asylum area should be the subject of discussion, yes, one will ask the Danes and have a referendum. By the way, I think it's interesting, and I hope that maybe we can hear more from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen about later, because it is a very important point here that a political agreement that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has already tried to suspect in this debate is, in fact, a much, much stronger guarantee than a piece of random legislation that any chance majority can change in the future. A good example of a political agreement, as the Prime Minister also mentioned in Question Time today, is the national compromise, which now lasts 23 years and is 23 years old. How much random legislation in this thing has lasted for 23 years? That is, for me, the strongest guarantee one can give at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174521	That's not what I'm hearing, sir. Morten Løkkegaard say. And there will be changing governments, changing majorities here in the Folketing, so as I said, the guarantee cannot apply at all until the sun burns out as it is presented. And what if there is this 'no' on 3 December, which we in the Danish People's Party are hoping for, namely that we will vote 'no' in the legal vote? So what are you gonna do in the Left? I still think there is a need for a clear answer to that. What are you gonna do? After all, we agree that we are going to Europol, but what will you do if that becomes a no? Give me the answer!
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174605	Well, I've already answered that one time. But I can repeat it: I hope and believe in a yes we all believe in that in the Left. The question of speculating about a 'no' is, of course, a classic rhetorical argumentatory teasing, so of course I am not going to go into that. I would just like to say that, of course, measures will be taken as soon as Denmark finds itself in a situation where we are no longer in Europol. It's a verifiable fact that that's the way it is. It's not like it's gonna be a no. We still believe in a yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174634	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103174645	Thank you, President. We in the Group of the European People's Party can support the motion for a resolution calling on the government to investigate the possibility of initiating negotiations on a parallel agreement. We can support that proposal. We cannot promise that we will support such an agreement when it is finally available. It depends on the content, so we'll see. However, we can of course support examining the possibility of having the greatest freedom of action. One must of course wonder a little at not only the present but also the position of the previous government in this matter. Well, we've heard, for example. from Mrs Trine Bramsen and from the Minister for Justice, about all the abominations that will befall Denmark if we do not fully join Europol: Denmark will sink into the sea and be taken over by criminals. However, that situation has been known since 2009, when the Treaty of Lisbon came into force. For six years it has been clear that this situation would arise, and for six years changing governments have been sitting on their hands and doing nothing at all they have done nothing! The technical probes that have been used have even been chosen to interrupt. One could have continued the technical probes, but one would not; they have been interrupted. Why have they been interrupted? Supposedly because Europol must be used as a breaker, not to be part of Europol, but to abolish the right of the Danish people to determine the legal policy in Denmark. Because that is what the referendum is about. I've been looking for explanations for a long time, and now I've had an explanation from the Minister of Justice today. And the explanation is: the reason why we have not negotiated and continued the technical probes is that we have no idea what will be the result of the negotiations that are taking place on a new Europol regulation. We do not know what it will look like at all, so how can we get a parallel agreement on something that we do not know at all? That's an interesting argument. I am willing to buy it, but then there's just one thing I don't want to buy: how can you ask the Danish people to go to a referendum for something that is completely unknown to the whole country so unknown that you can't even make technical probes about a parallel agreement? I have to say that the argument of the Yes side is not at all coherent in this matter. And it is not just when it comes to the big things; it is also when it comes to the small ones. So, we have heard the Minister for Justice's explanation that when Norway could only search 2,000 times in Europol's database, in which we could be allowed to search 70,000 times, this is because Norway is not a full member of Europol. I then asked the Minister for Justice how many times Sweden has applied, and of course the Minister for Justice did not reply. For Sweden is a full member of Europol, and what is the reality? The reality is that Sweden has sought fewer times less than twice! So there is no link at all between whether you are in Europol and how many times you are looking for. It has something to do with how to organise your police work. And there I have put a question to the Minister for Justice, to which the Minister for Justice will unfortunately not reply, namely: is there a link between the fight against crime and how many times a request is sent to Europol's register for information? Denmark's applications to the Europol register account for almost 20%, that is to say almost one fifth, of all requests. That's 35 times more than Norway. Does this mean that crime is 35 times less in Denmark than in Norway? Does this mean that Denmark, because we seek so many times, has a significantly better fight against crime than Sweden or Germany or other neighbouring countries? No, so there is no link between the arguments of the yes side in detail either. But I understand you keep talking about these things. I understand why you make a poster with a lovely policewoman standing in front of Kronborg to remind us that Holger Danske sits in the catacombs and is ready to wake up when the country stands in wet. I get it. For then we are talking about something other than what this is really about, namely that we want to abolish people's legal reservations and instead make an election for politicians. Enhedslisten doesn't support that. However, the Enhedslisten can support the start of a debate on a parallel agreement with the other countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175125	For the time being, there is a single questioner, and that is Mr. Morten Løkkegaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175131	I have a great deal of respect for sir. Søren Søndergaard, especially when he gets rolled out in EU issues. We've seen that many times before. Personally, I cannot understand how anyone can challenge the fact that the use of a database is an expression of good police work and that one is actually better at serving it than others and that this big number is an expression of it, but leave it at that. I'd like to ask sir. Søren Søndergaard about a very trivial thing. Are people in the Enhedslisten in favour of Europol as a form of cooperation? So far, it has been rather unclear in the debates whether this criticism and all these accusations really conceal the fact that Europol is not in fact regarded as the right form of cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175219	In the Enhedslisten we are 100% for police cooperation across borders to combat serious crime; of course we are. But it is clear that we are not in favour of police cooperation at all costs. We just have to recognise that Europol has some very serious problems with regard to the security of data transmission. It is, of course, the case that data from Europol are transmitted in two different formats: some that deal with personal data and some that deal with more general information; and personal data are passed on to countries, including outside the EU, for example. to a country such as Columbia, which is not exactly known for, I would say, the utmost security in terms of storing data. Maybe sir did. Morten Løkkegaard some other information. That is why it is clear that when a parallel agreement is to be negotiated, it is vital for us that the parallel agreement also addresses the issues relating to data security in Europol. That is why I cannot give a clear answer to the question. I can say that what we want to work for is strong police cooperation and good legal protection for citizens, including data security.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175330	It is interesting to know that we cannot get a clear answer from the Enhedslisten as to whether we are in favour of Europol at all, and it is even more strange, after all, when we come from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Søren Søndergaard's side evidently indicates in the first place that we can vote in favour of this resolution, which is, of course, that we should be required to work for a parallel agreement on Europol. So how does it work? How, on the one hand, can we support this resolution which specifically refers to it and, on the other hand, stand here in vague terms and, in reality, not support the very same thing that has just been said in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175401	I'm so sorry, sir. Morten Løkkegaard did not hear the whole of my rapporteur's speech, because then he had received the answer right at the beginning, when I said that we could support making this application, but we could not promise that we would ultimately vote in favour. It depended on the negotiations and the outcome of the negotiations. Isn't that quite logical? That is, of course, what I think is the great difference between the electoral system, which Mr. Løkkegaard stands for and the parallel agreements that we stand for. If you choose the opt-in system, you have said yes to something unseen when you have said yes to something. You don't know where it's gonna end. Having said yes at the beginning, you are also at the end, even though what comes at the end is not something you like. On the other hand, it is parallel agreements where you can say from right up to the last minute. This is the difference between the position of the Left and the position of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175455	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175515	Thank you. I would actually like to start by signing with the Minister for Justice in order to state in his speech that the vote on 3 December is not just about Europol. Then we came so far as to agree on what the voting really is, namely the full and final abolition of the reservation of the law. So thank you so much. In relation to the proposal we are dealing with here, I have to say that I think the timing is a little odd. Because on the one hand it comes all too late, and on the other it comes a little too early. The fact is, we, as sir... Søren Søndergaard, in his rapporteur's speech, has known for a very long time that judicial cooperation in 2016 will be supranational and that Denmark will therefore run into problems in relation to our legal reservations. This has therefore been known since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009, which is why it is, of course, very late for this problem to be addressed. So, on the one hand, I think this proposal is far too late, but on the other hand, when I think it's a little early, it's because we have to have this referendum in a month's time, when we have to take a different legal approach to Denmark's cooperation in relation to, among other things, Denmark's cooperation. Europol. So faced with the choice between a parallel agreement and then the agreement parties' 'yes' to the application of the option model, the Liberal Alliance prefers a parallel agreement, and that is why we support the proposal for such a rather peculiar timing despite.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175707	Thank you. For the time being, there is a single questioner, and that is Mr. Morten Løkkegaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175712	Thank you. I have to understand that the Liberal Alliance supports this motion for a resolution and therefore also the whole idea of a parallel agreement. I have also understood from previous debates that the Liberal Alliance supports Europol in this way, as proposed, and also supports the 22 acts that have been found. Is it not a little strange, even according to the rapporteur's terms, that on the one hand you can be a strong supporter of something, but on the other hand you will not be a part of it and will therefore decide to enter into a process of parallel agreement and get something worse than what is being warmly supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175801	No, I don't think that's weird, because the world isn't black and white, and Mr. Morten Løkkegaard also well. Because it is not the case that the only chance we have of continuing in Europol is to endorse either the application of the opt-in model proposed by the yes parties or a parallel agreement. There is, of course, also a third possibility, namely that the option model should be applied in a different way, because I recognise that there are some advantages to it rather than a parallel agreement. But when we turn to this model that the parties to the agreements present to the Danes, it is related to the procedure for selecting any future legal acts. We do not agree that the competence to surrender sovereignty on behalf of the Danes must be placed forever in the Committee on European Affairs and, therefore, rather with the majority of 15 people in the Committee on European Affairs. We do not think this is democratic within the dial. So the answer is, no, I don't think that's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175900	I must therefore understand that on the altar, if I may say so, where this system of opt-in should then be sacrificed, one is prepared to accept, if necessary, a system which may be a little lower, in order to maintain its position. What I would like to ask further in the context of a parallel agreement is whether the rapporteur can confirm that the moment when we had to change Europol in a future context, and that is something we can imagine with the developments that are going on, we need to start a new debate and a further five to ten years in which we have to negotiate in order to have another parallel agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175938	I can confirm that the questioner is right in the procedure, since if there is a change in Europol, it has to be discussed again. On the other hand, I cannot confirm the questioner's prediction that it will take 5-10 years, and I do not think the questioner knows anything about that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103175954	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180010	Thank you. B 17 is about the fact that we must now start work on negotiating a parallel agreement on Europol. It can be said that in several ways it may be just as early as possible, as any work can only start if we have a 'no' vote on 3 December. It may well be that a parallel agreement will be able to maintain Denmark's participation in Europol, but in our optics it will actually deprive Denmark of the opportunity to influence police cooperation in the direction we want it to. Especially now that Europol is about to change, we think it is important that Denmark is fully involved in this. For me, it is very important that Danish participation in Europol is both active and binding. We should not only foam the cream on selected issues, but should participate fully in it, just as we should in a number of other things within the European Union, and help to create the community of solidarity that is needed. The comments on the proposal emphasise that if the legal reservation is converted into an opt-in system, it means that in future Denmark will have the opportunity to join the EU's asylum and refugee policy. The authors of the motion for a resolution can be given the right to do so, and yet not, because unfortunately there is an agreement between the five parties to the agreement which is emphatically standing in the way of it. Of course, we are really sorry about this in the alternative, because we believe that there should be a very high degree of common European solution to problems which are characterised by being without passports, so to speak. So if the authors of the motion would like us to ask the Danes about refugee and asylum policy in particular, I would like to make some publicity for B-3, which I think should be voted in favour of instead, so that we can get the Danes' answers to the refugee and asylum issues in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180202	Thank you. We have two authors for the moment, and the first one is Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180209	Thank you. Now the rapporteur is not a lawyer, but, as far as I understand, has a bachelor in design, and I would therefore like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that comments on a legislative proposal have no legal value. There is no justification for comments. So it is still possible, in fact, to transfer the sovereignty of asylum and immigration policy that the rapporteur is asking for. However, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur feels obliged by the promise of a referendum, on the one hand, and a veto, on the other, if it is the case that the rapporteur can see a majority that can implement the rapporteur's wish to ship the policy of aliens to the European Union outside these contracting parties? Does the rapporteur feel obliged to make such a promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180311	In fact, designers also know what an agreement is, including a political agreement. And what I know the five parties to the agreement have made is a binding political agreement. I believe, of course, that they are complying with this, as is the practice of observing political agreements concluded here in the Folketing. Then we are asked whether I am bound by what the five parties are doing. No, I'm not, because I'm not in that deal. But it is not the alternative that stands for 90 seats, not even in the polls today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180342	After all, nobody knew ten years ago that there would be anything called the alternative, for example, so you could imagine that there would be new parties in the Folketing during the next ten years. There is only one question I would like to ask the alternative: will the alternative be involved, together with any other parties who might wish to do so in the future, to send the immigration policy to Brussels without asking the public when the legal basis is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180406	As the author well knows, we have just tabled a motion for a resolution to send this question to a referendum because we would like to ask the people. Because we're not afraid to ask the people about those things. And if the people do not want it, even if we want it, then we must comply with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180421	The next question is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180424	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. One of the things I really want to ask the rapporteur is this with Europol. As previous rapporteurs here in the Danish Parliament have today explained, negotiations on a parallel agreement on Europol were previously suspended because we did not really know what it was to be negotiated. And right now, all we know is that it is going to be supranational in any case. Okay, so far so good. But then there are a lot of other things in Europol where we do not yet know what the final outcome really will be. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can elaborate further on what the rapporteur expects will be the political reality with regard to Europol. For we in the Danish People's Party certainly have a great deal of doubt as to what it is that people want to decide on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180528	What citizens have to decide is whether we should participate in this cooperation. When you engage in cooperation, you also help to influence that cooperation. You are not if you come after and ask: can we play with it? That's what matters to me. What we are voting on is: do we want to enter into this cooperation and help shape it in the direction we would like to see it going in? And that is what we want from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180549	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180552	What I also hear the rapporteur say is that we are obviously equal in this European Union cooperation, including in relation to Europol. This is just not the experience of me and the Danish People's Party. On the contrary, it is our experience that there are some countries, among others. Germany, where there is a Chancellor Merkel who has a lot to say on this front. However, I can understand, of course, if it is that the alternative would rather have such a country as Germany deciding more in relation to the whole of the European Union and Europol, because Germany now has the positions they have in terms of integrating asylum and immigration policy in the European Union area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180636	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180639	I think the questioner mixed up a lot of things. When you have participation, it is clear that our voice does not necessarily count the same as a country with 80 million inhabitants. That is how democracy has been chosen. That's not one vote per. countries, but there are some other ways you're involved in this cooperation, and I think that's okay. For me, too, it is democracy. But I think we have an influence. When we go along with something and sit at the table and negotiate something, we are helping to influence it in the direction we want as a nation. And as I have said before from the platform, it is not necessarily always that I agree most with our dear Minister of Justice. It may well be politicians from other countries of the European Union that I actually put more faith in sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180720	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180734	Thank you very much. This is the second time that the Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal of this caliber. The last time was under the previous government in which the Radical Left refused to support it, and we will do so this time too. We recommend a 'yes' vote on 3 December for the referendum, which will, of course, clarify Denmark's relationship with Europe's judicial cooperation. We would much rather that than a parallel agreement, so we naturally refuse to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180806	For the time being, there is a single questioner, and that is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180811	I would like to thank Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen to appear in the hall. As far as I remember, there was no radical representative last time we had this resolution up. I would just like briefly to ask the rapporteur something. Why is the rapporteur not prepared to support the promise made by the Prime Minister of a referendum prior to the surrender of sovereignty in the area of asylum and aliens? It has to be understood that the party is not prepared for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180847	Thank you. After all, there is an undertaking from the Prime Minister and, moreover, from the Social Democrats, that there must be a referendum if we are to transfer further sovereignty in the area of asylum to the European Union. I see this as a political reality and it is not something that has grown in our seas. I can tell you that, in 1992, I myself voted in favour and was part of a very large minority which, at that time, actually fought for us, among other things. fully endorsed the EU's legal policy. The Radical Left has always believed that we should be fully involved in binding cooperation, but it is a political reality that we are only voting on the small part of what is about Europol and 22 legal acts. So, of course, we did not want to give that commitment, but vice versa, I have to say that I regard it as a political reality that there will be a referendum before sovereignty in the area of foreigners can be surpassed into the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180940	However, we agree that it is the rapporteur's party's view that asylum and immigration policy is best applied in the EU, is it not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103180952	Thank you. It is quite true that we in my party believe that cross-border problems are of course best solved together. In this way, we must now vote on Europol, where it will be possible to give the police the opportunities to kids, for example. things that flow through computer cables across the border and that can't just be stopped with a border boom. Similarly, we also believe that the great refugee crisis here would have the best of a European response, but we accept as a political reality that there must be a referendum before a further transfer of asylum. So in this way we have the position on the one hand, while on the other hand we believe that we know the reality when we see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103181028	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen from SF. I do not see that he is here in the Chamber. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party, which I cannot see in the Chamber either. That is why I now give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103181059	I regret my lateness, which is due to the fact that I was not just aware of the fact that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and Mr. Rasmus Jarlov was not present. I'm sorry. On 3 December 2015, the Danes will vote on whether they wish to abolish the reservation of law and replace it with an electoral system in which the right to surrender sovereignty is delegated from the population to a random majority at Christiansborg. Paragraph 20 of the Constitution otherwise states that the surrender of sovereignty can only be considered if a majority of five sixths of the Folketing or a majority of a referendum indicates that one wishes to surrender sovereignty to an international organisation. The vote is due to the fact that, at an unknown time as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon, Europol is moving from intergovernmental to supranational and, as a result of legal reservations, Denmark does not participate in cooperation on judicial policy at supranational level. In the view of the Danish People's Party, the Japarties have seen an opportunity to use the situation that has arisen around Denmark's membership of Europol to realise what has long been desired, namely a dispute with the legal reservation in order to ensure that they are able to decide for themselves when sovereignty should be surrendered in the whole area of legal and foreign policy. Here too we have heard from various parties about guarantees of consensus, referendums, the sun that burns out, but it is clear that at least three parties recommending a yes, the alternative, the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left would prefer Denmark to grant the right to pursue a sovereign asylum and immigration policy to the European Union. When the ja parties have chosen to use Europol as a wallbreaker in order to get rid of the Danes' legal reservations, other ways of ensuring continued Danish participation in Europol have also been neglected. For example, the previous government stopped clarifying the technical aspects of the establishment of a parallel agreement on Europol, which had otherwise been put into effect. Instead, the argument is that we cannot conclude a parallel agreement on something that has not been settled, but we can obviously ask the Danes to vote in favour of something that has not been settled. It may seem a little strange. But at least it is crucial that the previous government, applauded by the current one, has stopped the probes on the establishment of a parallel agreement. When the Danish People's Party prefers the application of a parallel agreement, as it among other things. Known from Norway, Iceland and Switzerland, this is related to the fact that Denmark, in the same way as other countries participating in the cooperation, is part of the cross-border operational police cooperation. With this solution, however, Denmark will not become a member of a supranational Europol and, if it should prove to be in our interest at a later stage, may withdraw us from cooperation if it is going in an inappropriate direction. I have also listened to the idea that it should be unsolidarous to the other countries that Denmark can so pick the best from the cooperation and refrain from the worst, but it is only to say that if the Danish Parliament is not put in the world to defend the interests of the Danes, but rather to show solidarity with other countries, I think that many Danes will be somewhat out of touch with it. There is no doubt, therefore, that a parallel agreement will be the best solution for Denmark through the glasses of the Danish People's Party. Then we are told that it is a long, uneven, uncertain and inexperienced road that we move on if we want a parallel agreement. But the road would then have become much less uneven and uncertain if the government, both the former and the present, had continued to clarify the technical aspects of establishing a parallel agreement instead of stopping it. We would have been prepared to complete the agreement when Europol was transferred to supranationalism. We are not now, and this is because changing governments have not shown due diligence because they want to get closer to the core of the European Union. In fact, we do not know much about how difficult it would be to conclude a parallel agreement. Indeed, Denmark has not applied for a parallel agreement with the European Union since the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force and changed the rules of the game for obtaining a parallel agreement. Therefore, when reference is made to matters prior to the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, when an attempt is made to assess how long it will take, this is not a fair way of looking at the situation. We do not know how long this will take, but we know that there are no countries in the European Union, nor the Commission, nor anyone else, who can come up with a single good argument as to why Denmark should not be able to have a parallel agreement on Europol. All Europol countries have an interest in Denmark continuing to be part of Europol. It is therefore also difficult to imagine a situation in which Denmark is not also part of Europol after a 'no' vote on 3 December. Should it really go so wrong that the European Union, against any common sense, will deny Denmark a parallel agreement on Europol, then the possibility also exists to apply the electoral system in a limited form. So there is no basis at all for the scaremongering campaign, which among other things. The Left and the Social Democratic Party, but also other parties, seem to have started where it is almost portrayed, as if Denmark ends up as a kind of Northern Cyprus outside the law and the law of the country and as a slaraff country for criminals if the vote on 3 December opposes them. This is a very well-known feature on the part of the EU-positive parties. It has been tried before with varying success, and now the old potion is pulled from the stable again. However, the vote on 3 December is about something much more fundamental: the issue of the right to surrender sovereignty on behalf of the people. Should this be the case with a random majority in Christiansborg, or should it, as is currently the case, be the case with the citizens? It is this debate that the yes parties have not dared to take for fear of the outcome of a vote with the main focus. Instead, the slogan now reads: Strengthen the police, vote yes. In this way, the people should vote 'yes' on 3 December. The Japarties are probably well aware that many Danes will be sceptical about giving the jalots the opportunity to surrender Danish sovereignty without asking the people. However, if the 'yes' parties had now wanted to play with open cards, the parties could have continued the negotiations on establishing a parallel agreement with the European Union. They could have asked the people to vote only on Danish participation in Europol and the 22 acts, but failed to ask the people to allow them to surrender sovereignty on behalf of the people. But the 'yes' parties did not want this, because the purpose of the vote is precisely to get this opportunity from the people to be able to surrender sovereignty on their behalf. This also means that, in the view of the Danish People's Party, a parallel agreement on continued Danish association with Europol would be the most ideal one. Many things have been said today in this Chamber. Not many surprising things have been said, but I have noted that among other things. Mrs Trine Bramsen opened the debate on whether comments can be made on a legislative proposal to support the right. It has to be said here that, legally speaking, comments on a legislative proposal have no value. You cannot drag anyone into a court case and refer to the comments made in legislation. You can only refer to the words of the law. We have also heard that there is a problem of time, that it can cause very serious problems if the Danes do not say yes on 3 December. To the extent that there is such a time problem, it is the time problem created by the 'yes' parties which have not done anything for six years and which have even interrupted the negotiations on technical probes on the matter. In addition, we have heard a lot about children's locators and pedestals, and I don't know what, with which the Danish People's Party and probably the Enhedslisten and Liberal Alliance should be very good friends, and I just have to say: If so, it would be something completely new. I think it would be best for us to have a vote on fair and fair conditions, where we do not shoot each other all kinds of things in our shoes and where we refrain from describing each other as friends of children's lovers and pedaddles and others. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Members of the House for their consideration of the proposal, and I would particularly like to thank the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance for their sympathetic reception of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103181945	I have one question for the time being, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103181953	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he claims from the platform that comments on a legislative proposal have no legal value.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103182001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103182004	What I have said, and what I would like to repeat, is that it is not possible to use the comments made in what I would describe as a rather frivolous proposal made by the government to include from the outset after effect to say that there is a legal right to have a referendum on the surrender of sovereignty in the area of asylum and immigration policy. There is no way to take a case on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103182028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103182031	I think that there is evidence here to urge Detector to re-examine the rapporteur's claim in this Chamber. I would like to ask the rapporteur once again: is it completely meaningless what the legal notes say? Is that what the rapporteur is saying from the parliamentary platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20151103182051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103182054	As I said earlier to Mrs Trine Bramssen, we cannot support a legislative note. Mrs Trine Bramsen should know that too, and if anyone needs a Detector check, I think that is Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103182108	There are no more requests for short remarks. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151103182126	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, November 4, 2015, at 5:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
